<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I voted no on this Omnibus spending bill. I did so reluctantly, because most of what I know about it--which is contained in the pages about agriculture, education and other areas--I like. It is because of the several hundred pages that are a complete mystery to me that I vote no. 
Mr. President, democracy should not work this way. The people send us here to deliberate serious matters of public policy and to represent their interests and the nation's in the debate. In this case there was no debate, and it was not possible to represent anyone's interests because it is impossible to know how, if at all, those interests comport with a bill whose 3,800 pages were not even published until the dark of last night. 
Lest the American people be confused about why it has come to this, there is a simple answer. The majority party did not schedule Congress' time to do the work the people pay us to do. One of the Congress' most basic duties is to decide how the people's money is to be spent. That process involves the passage of 13 appropriations bills, of which we managed to pass a whopping total of five in several months. The majority party found ample time to debate matters of such crashing importance as the scourge of human cloning and the name of the airport from which most of us are going to flee this scene later today. Let there be no mistake about it: The necessity of a $500 billion omnibus bill did not arise from grand ideological disputes. It came from a failure, plain, simple and unadulterated, to do our jobs because the majority party chose to use the Congress' time to do other things. 
As a result, the American people suspect that what has happened over the last few days was a back-room deal involving hundreds of billions of dollars of their money being spent with no opportunity for their input, debate or, for that matter, even for their elected representatives to see the final product. Why is that? I submit the reason might be that this bill was a back-room deal involving hundreds of billions of dollars of their money being spent with no opportunity for their input, debate or, for that matter, even for their elected representatives to see the final product. 
Later today I intend to participate in a panel discussion featuring the senior Senator from New York, who will discuss his new book on secrecy and national security. His thesis is that excessive secrecy produces suspicion, mistakes and unnecessary costs. I completely agree with him. This budget process--which the Senator from New York has aptly noted moves us toward something akin to a parliamentary system in which decisions are made behind closed doors by a select few--proves that the Senator's thesis on secrecy in national security applies equally to secrecy in domestic policy. It breeds suspicion, and it breeds mistakes. There are few things I can say with certainty about this budget, since very few of its several thousand pages were available before yesterday, but I can predict one thing with total confidence: When the smoke clears and the budget is actually read, there are going to be things in it that would never have survived a public debate. 
The majority will protest that this last-minute flurry was caused by threats of vetoes from the President. I am not overly sympathetic on that point, Mr. President. The current occupant of that office has held it for six years. His views on appropriations bills are not a mystery sprung on the majority party at the last moment. He submitted a budget at the beginning of this year outlining what he wanted. He does not schedule the Senate's time for debate. 
We cannot go on like this year after year, Mr. President, taking money from the pockets of taxpayers and then huddling behind a closed door to negotiate among a select few--many of them unelected--how to spend it. This is not government of, by and for the people. It is only half in jest that I say, sadly, that it is more like government by four people. 
As I said, Mr. President, I cast my nay vote reluctantly because I am pleased with much of what I know about this bill. I am glad we succeeded in convincing the majority of the need to extend a helping hand to America's first industry--agriculture--at a time of grave crisis. I believe children in school are going to learn more and better because we are putting teachers in the classroom. I'm delighted the tax portion of this bill includes a provision much like a bill which I have introduced which would prevent working families from paying higher taxes by allowing them to deduct their child care, child and education credits under the Alternative Minimum Tax. This bill also provides a much-needed extension of the R&D tax credit and will help the self-employed, particularly farmers, by accelerating the deductible amount of their health insurance costs. 
At the same time, I am very disappointed the livestock price reporting provision, which I authored in the Senate, was dropped from this package. I do not believe the home health care problems we face will be `solved' by this bill and we should not be led to believe that the agriculture crisis in this country will come to an end as a result of this bill. In addition, I firmly believe that the thousands of people in this country waiting for organ transplants, will be hurt, not helped by further delay in issuing regulations governing organ transplant allocations. 
But what I object to the most is not what we know about this bill, but what we do not, and can not. You can stir up a lot of mischief in a bill that runs over 3,800 pages that no one has read. 
Maybe we can take some comfort in the hope that the 106th Congress will do better. We won't be perfect. But perhaps we can get a jump on our pursuit of perfection by acting like a democracy, then by doing the work we are paid to do. 
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise as a proud original cosponsor of legislation to establish a national Disabled Veterans Memorial here in Washington, DC. 
I am honored to join my fellow colleagues, veterans and friends Senators McCain and Cleland in establishing a memorial to the brave men and women who have served our Nation with honor and dignity, but have paid a grave price. 
I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to establish and construct a memorial that is not only a tribute to our veterans, but will also serve the residents of the District as a place of civic and national pride. 
I will insist on an open and fair process as we move forward, and will be diligent in representing the best interests of the veterans, the District, the Nation, and the American people.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to acknowledge October 24-31 as the 13th annual observation of World Population Week. In particular, I draw to the attention of my colleagues the proclamation of World Population Awareness Week by the Governor of Nebraska, Ben Nelson. I ask that the full text of this proclamation be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I have some good news, and I have some bad news. 
First the good news: We won. The Cold War, that is. Now the bad news: We may find the burden of winning that war as heavy as the burden of fighting it. I say that is the `bad news,' Mr. President, because it seems like bad news. But I believe it is both our destiny--a mantle that history has placed on our shoulders whether we like it or not--and an opportunity. The opportunity is this: the furnace in which American values are forged throughout the world is fiery hot, and its door is open. 
That furnace will not be hot forever, Mr. President. Our triumph in the Cold War dissolved an empire and set free the nations that had been chained up by it. The totalitarian idea was stripped of the thin threads of legitimacy to which its aging adherents continued to cling. The birth of freedom--the opportunity to build new institutions of democracy and world stability--opened. 
This furnace was hot, and still is, Mr. President, but the opportunity to build from the rubble of a fallen empire also brings turmoil. As what we hope are the transitional problems of economic instability, ethnic conflict, and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction cool and harden into habits, the door to that furnace of opportunity is closing. 
America has learned before that the smoldering embers of victory contain the fires of reignited conflict. Once in this century we got it wrong. After the first world war, we made the fatal mistake of a vengeful peace. The result was a second world war, after which we got much more right, especially our leadership in rebuilding a crumbled world. Now, like then, we are weary of war's toll, but now, like then, we must bear the burden of leadership in victory. And we must do it while the furnace is hot and the opportunity right. 
That, Mr. President, is why I am concerned that the 105th Congress is preparing to adjourn with too much foreign policy business left unfinished. The challenges we face around the world are burdens not just for this Congress, but for this country, for every American. The bell of leadership will toll for all of us, and we should not be surprised when it does. I want to outline just a few places where we may hear that call. 
First, we face a global economic meltdown. Economies throughout the world are slowing and more uncertainty seems to arise everyday. Over the past year we have seen how instability in the Asian financial markets can quickly spread and undermine the stability of the global economy. 
The impact has been devastating. Overnight, people in Asia and Russia have seen their entire life savings disappear. They have seen the chance to give their children an education and a shot at a better life evaporate. They have seen their standards of living plummet to the point where they must struggle to acquire basic necessities. Failure to act quickly to reverse the situation and promote global economic growth could consign an entire generation--who only months ago were on the verge of building a middle class--to a life of continued poverty. 
We must know that global prosperity is not possible without a strong U.S. economy. I am pleased with the recent decision by the Federal Reserve to cut U.S. interest rates; although I admit I wish they would have cut it further. As the economic engine that drives the world, we must be prepared to take bold action to ensure world economic growth. Let me be clear, not only do we seek to improve the lives of people around the world through economic growth, we act with an element of self interest. A healthy global economy is the surest way to maintain a robust economy in the United States. As the farmers in my state know, without markets for U.S. products abroad, our own prosperity is threatened. Should this economic crisis deepen, should we start seeing credible signs of global depression, this Congress and the Administration must be prepared to act boldly to stimulate economic growth. 
In that regard, I am pleased we are taking a proactive role in trying to prevent the economic crisis from spreading further to places like Latin America. We should continue to work cooperatively with other nations, like Japan, to assist them in implementing the kind of economic and legal reforms that will help them rebuild their economies. 
Out of this crisis, we are also learning that economic instability leads to political instability. We see this in Russia, where financial shocks have created a political crisis which threatens Russian democracy. The situation in Russia demands our attention. As a nation with a capability to launch thousands of nuclear weapons, we cannot afford to allow Russia to slip into anarchy. I still believe the Russian transition will be successful, but it will be measured in decades, not years. We must be prepared to help the Russian people over the long run to create a democratic system based on the rule of law. 
At the same time, we cannot allow the wealth of challenges we face both at home and abroad to embolden despotic leaders to flaunt international standards. Recent missile tests by North Korea only too clearly demonstrate the need to remain committed to the security of our friends in Asia. It refocuses our attention on this troubled region. 
A divided Korea is one of the few lingering vestiges of the Cold War. But a change there is inevitable. I see two potential scenarios on the Korea Peninsula. In the first scenario, North Korea will acquiesce to the tide of history, renounce totalitarianism, embrace democracy, and peacefully reunite with the South. In the other scenario, North Korea implodes into an irrational and dangerous nation threatening the peace and security not only of South Korea, but of the entire region. While we should strive to ensure the former scenario, we should prepare for the latter. 
First, we should reaffirm our military ties with South Korea and Japan. The 37,000 American troops stationed in South Korea, and the tens of thousands stationed throughout Asia, should serve as ample warning of our intent to stand by our allies and respond to all threats. Second, we should continue to support South Korea as it rebuilds its economy and implements further democratic reforms. Finally, we must maintain our active containment of North Korea with the cooperation of all of our partners in the region. 
As we remain vigilant in Korea, we cannot release the pressure we have built on Saddam Hussein's regime. We are all concerned about Saddam's unwillingness to live up to his agreements, to fully disclose all information on his weapons of mass destruction programs, and to cooperate with United Nations Security Council Resolutions and mandates. Iraq's refusal to cooperate with UNSCOM monitors can not be allowed to go unchallenged. 
But ultimately, our success in Iraq will not come from winning a game of hide and seek with Saddam's weapons of mass destruction, but through the establishment of democracy in Iraq. We must change our policy from containment of Iraq to the replacement of Saddam Hussein with a democratic government. I am pleased legislation sponsored by Senator Lott and myself--designed to set the Iraqi people on the path to self-government--was recently passed by both the House and the Senate. As Americans, we should strive for no less. This policy is both noble, and with our assistance, possible. 
In the Balkans, recent election victories by Serbian hardliners in Bosnia once again raise concerns about the prospects for a lasting peace. While enormous progress has been made since the days of open warfare and ethnic cleansing, more must be done to assure that Bosnia will become a peaceful, multi-ethnic state. 
Let us be clear, the chance for peace in Bosnia did not come from a sudden willingness of the warring parties to come together. It came from our willingness to use our own military power. I am extremely proud of the men and women of the United States Armed Forces who have served in Bosnia as a part of IFOR and SFOR. Their ability to bring peace to Bosnia is the best example of the effectiveness of U.S. leadership in the world. We should not forget that before the U.S. military intervention in Bosnia, our nightly news was filled with images of the destruction of Bosnian villages; of men, women, and children being gunned down in the streets of Sarajevo; and of families being separated and never seeing each other again. 
But because we acted--because men and women in America's armed forces put their lives on the line--the fighting was stopped, the Dayton Peace Accords were signed, and the people of Bosnia have been given the chance to return to a normal life. Ultimately, the success or failure of our efforts in Bosnia will be determined by the capability to fully implement the civilian components of the Dayton Accords and our ability to help the people of Bosnia establish democracy and the rule of law based on ethnic security. 
However, just as we allow ourselves to be hopeful for the people of Bosnia, we see more senseless killing of innocent civilians in the Balkans. The situation in Kosovo--while different and perhaps more complex than Bosnia--presents another challenge. Once again, we are faced with the question: do we have the resolve to confront Serb aggression and to halt the spread of ethnic conflict in the region? In answering this question, we must heed the lesson of Bosnia--at times, the credible use of force precedes diplomacy. 
Over the past few months, Serbia has been given ample warning by the international community that its policies of ethnic cleansing, indiscriminate destruction of villages, and brutality toward civilian populations would not go unchallenged. However, Mr. President, President Milosevic did not respond to the demands of the international community until NATO began serious consideration of military action. One of the reasons I voted for NATO enlargement earlier this year was my firm belief that the inclusion of Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic--nations that had only recently thrown off the yoke of dictatorial regimes--would make the Alliance more willing to act in defense of freedom. Therefore, I was heartened to see President Vaclav Havel providing leadership and insisting that NATO respond to Serb action in Kosovo. 
I am hopeful that the agreement reached earlier this week will improve the prospects of peace in Kosovo and will avert the pending humanitarian crisis. But if we have learned one lesson in dealing with Slobodan Milosevic in the past it is this: believe his actions, not his words. 
Mr. President, as I look out onto the world these are only a few of the foreign policy challenges we face. I come before my colleagues today with a simple message: America must lead. But for America to lead, Congress must act. 
First, Congress must ensure a strong national defense. I am pleased that we have passed both the Defense Authorization and Appropriations Bills, which in my opinion are two of the most important pieces of legislation we pass on an annual basis. The United States maintains the best equipped and most skillfully trained military the world has ever seen. This is not bravado, but a fact. A fact that should serve as a constant reminder to any nation contemplating a challenge to our interests. A strong American military, one that's ready to deploy and one that's backed up by the will of the American people, is a tremendous deterrent, and is likely to prevent conflict and the need for U.S. intervention. 
Next, we must ensure that we maintain our intelligence capabilities. Americans should not suffer the illusion that we currently have the intelligence capacity to know everything that's going on in the world. We simply do not. We are not allocating enough resources to make certain our military is getting the intelligence it needs to identify threats and protect our national interests. But more importantly, we are not allocating enough resources to make certain policymakers are informed so that conflicts that might occur can be avoided. Mr. President, I believe we will not be able to allocate sufficient resources to our intelligence needs until we declassify the current budget and have a public debate about how we spend those dollars. 
As I look at the legacy of the 105th Congress, I see many areas in which we have failed to provide the leadership necessary to guide the United States through these troubled times. We have left an unfinished agenda that we must confront in the 106th Congress. 
Our first line of national defense is diplomacy. But we in Congress have spent far too little of our time and resources on ensuring we have a strong, well-financed diplomatic corps. In fact, as of today, the Senate has failed to act on over 20 State Department nominees--including over 15 nominations for ambassadorial positions. How can the United States represent its interests abroad without having our diplomatic representatives in place? Like our military, we should strive to make our diplomatic corps the envy of the world. I am convinced a strong diplomatic presence would reduce the chance of having to use our military forces. 
In the same manner, Congressional refusal to provide funding to meet our international financial obligations puts a range of U.S. interests at risk. Currently, the United States owes over $1 billion in arrears to the United Nations. At a time in which we are trying to strip Saddam Hussein of his weapons of mass destruction programs through the auspices of UNSCOM and the U.N. Security Council, it would be foolish to believe that our failure to pay our debts does not impact our credibility. While I support efforts to reform U.N. operations, too often the payment of our arrears has been held hostage by those simply opposed to U.S. engagement in the world or by unrelated political debates. Former Secretary of Defense Frank Carlucci said it best: `One thing is certain--we can't reform the U.N. if we're the biggest deadbeat.' It's time for the United States to act like the most powerful nation in the world, it's time for Congress to pay our debts to the United Nations. 
This Congress has not done enough to promote arms control. Specifically, our failure to debate and ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty during this Congress has relinquished our historic role as the leader in the effort to end the testing of nuclear weapons. Mr. President, the American people overwhelmingly support the Test Ban Treaty because they understand ratification of the treaty will give us new tools to fight the proliferation of nuclear materials and technology and will help us better monitor compliance of other nations. 
The nuclear tests conducted earlier this year by India and Pakistan highlight the danger that can arise when nations engage in nuclear brinkmanship. The potential consequences of increased tensions in the region arising from additional testing by India and Pakistan should cause each of us concern, and should elevate this issue to the top of our priority list. The recent declaration by the Prime Ministers of both India and Pakistan of their intention to join the CTBT offer hope that we can make this treaty work. When the 106th Congress reconvenes, the Senate must bring this treaty to the floor. We cannot insist that potential rogue nuclear states adhere to the precepts of the CTBT if the United States Senate gives it less time for debate than bills changing the names of airports. 
I spoke earlier about the challenge presented by the global economic crisis. One of the few tools the international community has for extinguishing the sudden brush fires of global crisis is the International Monetary Fund. In response to the crisis, President Clinton requested $18 billion to replenish the IMF's capital base. On two separate occasions, the Senate has overwhelmingly voted to provide this funding, sending a clear message of our belief that the threat to the prosperity of the American people is too great not to act. I am pleased with reports that the funding will be provided as a part of the FY99 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. While imperfect, the IMF is the only institution that pools the world's resources to address large-scale financial crises. 
Finally, I was disappointed by our failure to renew fast track authority for the President to negotiate future trade agreements. I believe it's unfortunate because without fast track authority it will be more difficult to negotiate reductions in non-tariff barriers throughout the world that would stimulate demand for American products and create jobs for American citizens. 
I have outlined a heavy burden, Mr. President, one whose weight may surprise us. Many Americans thought we won, no doubt, and that the burden of leadership--along with the cloud of danger--had passed. We did win, Mr. President, our blood and treasure struck a tremendous blow for freedom. Our pride is not diminished by the fact that our work is not done. 
Shortly before the Soviet Union fell, one of the great soldiers of the Cold War, General Colin Powell, met with General Jack Galvin--commander of NATO--to discuss threats to our security. General Galvin wore a worried look on his face as he plodded through threat after threat after threat that remained. General Powell responded: `Smile, Jack. We won.' 
Smile, Mr. President. But we must also steel our will. The burden of war is behind us. The burden of victory remains.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, in the last 15 years America has been invaded by what has been known as information technology. Like the body snatchers of `Alien' that penetrated deep into the human body, computers and communication technologies have penetrated deep into our lives. Unfortunately, the `Alien' metaphor may not be apt since for the most part we have invited this force into our homes. 
We invited these technologies into our homes and our businesses because they allowed us to do things faster, to do things better and to do things cheaper. Among other things these technologies have reduced the cost of running a home, made our businesses more competitive, opened new markets by bringing buyers and sellers closer together, and expanded the horizons of our students not to mention adding entertainment value to our lives. 
The good news of computer and associated communication technology have been offset by our growing dependence. To see how much we are dependent one need only look at the high level of concern surrounding the Y2K problem. Computer software is written so that at a second after midnight on January 1, 2000, while hundreds of millions of humans will be celebrating the end of an old millennium and the beginning of a new, our computers will act as if it is January 1, 1900. To the machines this will be the equivalent of day light saving century. 
To some this is the beginning of a humorous and good news story: No income tax, a chance to correct the terrible mistakes of the past 100 years, and so forth. However, for those who operate our banking, emergency response, air traffic control, and power systems this will be nothing to laugh at. So dire are the predictions of some who understand how dependent on computers and software we have become that they talk as though they are storing up food and medical supplies just in case. 
None of this would have happened if the century had ended 20 years earlier because computers, chips, and microprocessors were not yet running things. Twenty years ago I was hearing people tell me about how computers were going to change the world. It would be 5 more years before I had my first personal computer: an Apple IIE. In 1983 portable computers were available to those with strong backs or a fork lift. E-mail was in its infancy. The internet was 10 years away from its grand opening to the public. Software was built into mainframes and was available to those who knew how to navigate the procession of prompts and confusing signs. Speed was a snail's pace. Capacity was like a rain drop in the desert. 
Mr. President, what happened in the past 20 years is that we were thirsty for the things a computer could do for us. Rapid and accurate calculations enabled even small businesses to get costs under control. Personal computers empowered us. Desk tops enabled us. 
Lap tops liberated. Decision making - once driven from the top down by men and women with MBA degrees--has been distributed outward and downward. 
Mr. President, now, any PC or Macintosh with average speed and power with state of the art connectivity makes its user a publisher, broadcaster, editor, opinion maker, and analyst of large amounts of previously confusing data. 
Advances in computer and telecommunications technology have spurred change and growth in our economy. These changes have generated wealth and jobs by creating new businesses and destroying old ones. Market oriented businesses have had to adjust or perish. Public institutions, because of the nature of democracy--in other words, Majority rules but narrow interests win elections--have been changing much more slowly. 
Slowly but surely the work of transferring knowledge from a teacher to a student is being done with the assistance of computers, software, and new systems where new skills are needed. 
The vision of this 1998 IRS Restructuring and Reform Act is that this agency will move from a paper to an electronic world. The National Imaging and Mapping Agency--a consolidated combat support agency--will in a few years talk about maps as those things we used in the good old days back when dinosaurs roamed the Earth. 
In fact, nowhere are the changes of the computer age more pronounced than in our military and intelligence gathering forces, which is what I choose to discuss on the floor today. Computers and communication technologies have made America's fighting forces stronger and more effective. We should be proud of the men and women who have trained and prepared themselves to take advantage of these new tools. 
However, we also need to be alert to a hard truth: With strength comes vulnerabilities. Just as Achilles was held by his heel as he was dipped in the potion that made him unbeatable, we need to be alert to those small spaces where a determined enemy could do us great harm. 
If we are to maintain our economic success and provide the security our citizens expect and deserve, we must as a nation turn to address our weaknesses. 
The ability of people to use information technology to reach into our homes and to amass vast amounts of personal data threatens our sense of privacy. The omnipresence of this technology has caused our society to develop a dependency on silicon chips and the wires that connect them. And, the connectivity that now brings us so many benefits may also be a vulnerability that nations and terrorists could use to threaten our security. 
We have been blessed by our dominance in high-technology industries and in our society's acceptance of new information technology. Information systems are the backbone of America's telecommunications and electrical power grids, banking and finance systems, our transportation systems, broadcast and cable industries, and many other businesses besides. They have helped American workers become more productive, have brought new efficiencies in the use and distribution of resources, and have helped our Nation grow to be the most advanced and competitive economy in the world. 
We owe a large part of that success to the ingenuity, perseverance, and vision of America's information technology companies and their employees. The story of how computer companies started in garages can grow into multibillion dollar corporations is almost legendary. An industry virtually non-existent twenty five years ago has brought enormous wealth and opportunity to thousands of Americans. 
Mr. President, information technology has transformed our Nation's economy, and, as we enter into the 21st century, our Nation's livelihood will depend on continued development of this industry. But the wonder of this technology is how its success has brought extraordinary changes to other aspects of our lives. 
Modern information technologies provide us with unheard-of opportunities in education, business, health care, and other life-enriching areas. Information technology empowers people to continue their educations and upgrade their skills throughout life. Education no longer ends at the schoolhouse door. In addition, new technologies are extending lifesaving medical care to remote rural areas and promoting healthy communities across the country. These new avenues to information better inform our electorate, and the improved means of communication make it far easier for individual citizens to express their views to the general public and to their elected representatives. 
In combination, these technological benefits allow people--both young and old--to develop new skills, explore new interests, and improve their lives. 
America's technological strength is the envy of nations around the globe. But that strength, if not understood and protected, may also be our Achilles' heel. 
We have been blessed this year with a number of warnings about this grave and far-reaching threat. We have been blessed with warnings about the interdependence of our information infrastructures, the interlocking network that can make local hospitals and airports victims just as easily as multinational corporations and media conglomerates. We need to heed the warning and respond to this danger. 
Just a few weeks ago, the media reported that the electronic mail programs the vast majority of Americans use had vital, hidden flaws. 
Simply opening an e-mail message could unleash a malicious virus and allow that virus to freeze your computer, steal data, or erase your hard drive. I realize there are some people in the United States--many of them here in the Senate--who still do not use e-mail. But our society today relies upon electronic mail for use in Government and commercial communications, for business management and project coordination, and personal entertainment and missives. A malicious person could potentially have used these flaws to blackmail people or companies, to disrupt Government and commercial activity, or to sabotage civilian or military databases. 
Just a few months ago, one satellite orbiting more than 22,000 miles above the state of Kansas began tumbling out of control. It was the worst outage in the history of satellites. By conservative estimates, more than 35 million people lost the use of their pagers, including everyone from school children and repairmen to doctors, nurses, and other emergency personnel. 
All of that was the result of one small computer on a satellite 22,000 miles into outer space. 
Earlier this year, we were in the middle of a very tense standoff with Saddam Hussein. And we were able to track an attack on the Pentagon's computer system to a site in the Middle East, in the United Arab Emirates. There was a legitimate question at the time: Was this an act of war? Was it a terrorist? Or was it, as it turned out to be, teenage hackers inappropriately and illegally using their home computers? The implications of an effective attack against our military's information systems would be devastating during a time of crisis. This attack failed, but will we be as fortunate in the future? 
I do not think these incidents are a statement about software companies, the satellite industry, or teenage computer aficionados. 
These incidents are a warning--loud, clear, and wide--about the dependence of the American economy and the American people on information technology. Our use of information technology has helped us achieve and maintain our status as the world's strongest nation. But our dependence on information technology also brings exploitable weaknesses that, like the Lilliputians to the giant Gulliver, may enable our weaker adversaries to cause great damage to our nation. 
In Jonathan Swift's tale, the Lilliputians used their mastery of mathematics and technology to defeat their much more powerful adversary Gulliver. Today, weaker adversaries may use their mastery of information technology to invade our privacy, steal from our companies, and threaten our security. 
The revolution in Information Technology has propelled the United States to an unparalleled position in the global economy. The principles of freedom and democracy that we champion are ascendant throughout the world. 
We have the world's largest economy, and we trade more than any other nation. Our military strength, in conventional and nuclear terms, is greater than that of any other nation. In short, we are the sole remaining superpower in the world. 
And yet, we still find ourselves vulnerable to individuals or groups--terrorists, criminals, saboteurs--who have a fraction of the manpower, weaponry, or resources we possess. In many ways, we are a technological Gulliver. America's massive shift toward an economy that is based on information technology has been a mixed blessing. Because we have the most complex, multifaceted economy, we are a multifaceted target. 
And our strategic vulnerability has risen hand-in-hand with our economic power. Like the Lilliputians, there are people who have used the principles of mathematics and science to master technology. 
They are so small in scale compared to the threats that we usually see that we have to strain our eyes just to identify them and figure out what they are doing. Gulliver, if you recall, did not win his freedom with a single act or weapon. He used a combination of things: sometimes he used his power, sometimes he used wit, and he learned from his experience how to deal with his adversaries. 
Mr. President, Congress urgently needs to establish a bipartisan agenda designed to create more economic opportunities in technology and to close our vulnerabilities. The following is my attempt to suggest what is needed: 
1. We need more competition, not less. Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996 with the hopes of increasing competition and improving access to communications technologies. Unfortunately, competition has not developed on the scale anticipated when the Act was passed. 
Nearly 3 years after the Act, most telecommunications customers lack the ability to simply switch telephone companies. In 1999 I hope Congress will make changes in the law needed to bring the benefits of competition - lower prices and higher quality - to the American household. 
2. We need a special effort to make technology a part of our educational system. More money should be appropriate for research and training. Regulations need to be written so the market can offer curricula-relevant courses to students in the home and school. We need to settle the disputes surrounding the E-Rate so our school boards can plan and budget accordingly. 
3. We need bipartisan agreement on how to protect privacy and security. The encryption debate has hobbled our efforts to write laws that enable our law enforcement and national security agencies to carry out their mission of keeping Americans safe while harnessing the power of the market to increase security and privacy. 
Any discussion of security on-line must inevitably involve encryption issues. Over the past five years, the debate over encryption policy has pitted law enforcement, national security, privacy, and commercial interests against one another. Yet, all these interests would agree that providing security in our public networks is essential to fully exploit the potential of information technology. 
Personal privacy in the digital world should not suffer at the hand of unreasonable export laws. Therefore, Congress should take action in the coming year to remove export restrictions on encryption products of any strength. I am confident that through cooperation between Government and industry, encryption can be exported without compromising the legitimate needs of law enforcement and national security. A compromise can be crafted if all parties, both private and public, are willing to work together to solve the common goal of maintaining America's national security in the new digital age. 
4. We should create in law a panel consisting of members of Congress, Administration officials, and leaders in high-technology industries to address the implications of information technology on our society and our security. We should also create a new national laboratory for information technology that will both perform research in this field and serve as a forum for further discussions of the issues arising from information technology. 
Mr. President, it is this fourth idea--a new panel and a new laboratory--that I would like to discuss today. Why do we need this? 
We need this, for starters, because the new threat of information warfare requires a new paradigm in which the military must rely like never before on other organizations and institutions to achieve success. 
Even if all of the information safeguards for the Defense Department's data, equipment, and operations were airtight, that would not be adequate. Currently, more than 95% of all wide-area defense telecommunications travel on commercial circuits and networks. And it would be impossible to replicate that type of capability on our own. 
Should an electronic attack come, it will likely not be aimed just at military targets, but at civilian sectors as well. It is not simply that the private sector relies on the military. The military relies on the private sector. 
That is one reason we as a government cannot afford to ignore the defense of the public and private sector infrastructure: We cannot do our most basic job--protecting national security--without that. 
In this new world of technology, if one of us gets tripped, we all risk a fall. 
Our Government, as it is now organized, can scarcely cope with these new challenges. We need to address the development and vulnerability of the American information infrastructure now. The regulatory frameworks established over the past 60 years for telecommunication, radio and television may not, in fact, most likely will not, fit the Information Economy. Existing laws and regulations should be reviewed and revised or eliminated to reflect the needs of the new electronic age. 
As a government, we need to reassess the areas of responsibility of our different parts, and the lines of authority that connect them, to ensure we are best organized to face this threat. 
More than two dozen federal agencies have either jurisdiction or a direct interest in the regulation of information technology as it applies to national security or electronic commerce. The Congress is no better off. In Congress, some 19 committees are responsible for legislation on the same issues. 
The Government has much to offer, through our understanding of security concepts and technology, along with the vulnerabilities of information technology and systems. We are strongly committed to share this knowledge with the private sector. Such partnerships are crucial, but there are some pitfalls, and we will need to build a balanced approach. For example: We have to be careful not to give the impression that Government wants to increase its involvement in the day-to-day operations of individual businesses. 
This is not at all the case, and few things will drive the private sector away like the potential for more Government intrusion and regulation. 
`Government Knows Best' is not the message we want to send. 
As a general principle, Government should step in only when problems exceed the capabilities of the private sector and the remedies of the marketplace. However, in cases where there are no reasonable business reasons for companies to make preparations, such as to counter a coordinated, simultaneous attack against multiple infrastructures, then Government should be prepared to provide economic incentives and support. 
A natural market exists for security and, ultimately, that will be our best course of action: a solution that combines the entrepreneurial strength and energy of the private sector with the national mission of the Government. 
One cannot overstate how important it is to get the Government-industry relationships right, because without them as a foundation, the value of all other efforts will be significantly diminished. A fundamental challenge in many cases is getting information about vulnerabilities and threats itself, and this simply cannot be done without the foundation of public-private sector information sharing. We cannot solve this by unilateral Government efforts. We have to move together to solve it. 
Mr. President, it is no surprise that both the Government and private sector are finding this difficult and complicated and frustrating. To combat cyber attacks--whether by terrorists, spies, disgruntled employees, pranksters--one needs both technical sophistication and cooperation among numerous companies, agencies and nations. 
It is going to be imperative for the protection of our information infrastructure that the private sector, national security officials, and law enforcement work together--not just on this issue, but on issues for the future. 
Many fear these discussions would lead to Government intrusiveness and abuse of power. Americans have always had a healthy skepticism towards Government power and our Constitution sets strict limits on what Government can and cannot do. We are a strong and vibrant nation directly because we enjoy rights of free speech, free assembly, and against unreasonable searches and seizures. Information technology can allow us greater exercise of those rights. When we examine the security of information technology, these rights must remain our guiding principles, and our Government policies should reflect them. 
We must get past the suspicion between the private sector and Government and move forward. The information infrastructure is vital to America's defense and to America's economy and we cannot preserve one without protecting the other. 
Here we need two things: First, we need a mechanism that transcends narrow organizational politics to bring consensus; and, secondly, we need a facility for advanced research into information technology protection that also provides a venue for constructive and ongoing dialog with industry, the Government, and academia. 
I believe Congress should act as soon as possible to create a blue-ribbon panel of top federal officials, key leaders from Capitol Hill, and experts from the high-technology field to address the issues of information assurance, infrastructure protection, and encryption that cut across committee lines. We need to have a panel that can speak with authority on both politics and policy. 
From the White House, we need to see a commitment of time, attention, and resources at the highest levels. 
Cabinet officers need to play an active role in shaping the solutions that are going to emerge from such a panel. These issues are complicated and they have far-reaching implications, so at the end of the day we need to have leaders in their respective areas--Cabinet and Cabinet-level officials--who are prepared to forge the necessary compromises and make the case to industry and to the public. Congress needs to take a similarly pragmatic approach. Committee chairpersons, with their expertise in different areas and institutional memory, need to be on this panel and give it all the attention they would a piece of legislation. But in addition we need to acknowledge the politically charged nature of these issues and be prepared to deal with them. So I propose that we not only have representatives by issue area, but representatives who are designated to speak for each major faction in the Congress: a representative of the majority in the Senate, and one for the House, a representative of the minority in the Senate, and one for the House, and representatives of the legislative caucuses that have an interest. 
Clearly Government cannot do this alone. We need the perspective, the insight, and the vision of experts who are part of the developments in the information technology field and who can predict on the basis of that experience where technology is going. We need their expertise and a willingness to work with their government, for otherwise this problem will only grow worse. The panel I envision must therefore have a strong component of private sector experts devoted both to the advancement of technology and to the security of our country. 
The complement to this Congressional panel should be a forum where Government, industry, and academic officials can work on these problems in a systematic, confidential, and dispassionate way. I propose that we learn from our experience and look to those models of industry-and-Government cooperation that have worked in the past. 
We can learn from agencies like the National Safety Transportation Board, DARPA, and other federally funded research and development centers. Specifically, Congress should pass legislation that would enable the President to create a new national laboratory and research facility to address information infrastructure protection. The role and mission of such an organization would be to target those specific areas that are now suffering from sporadic, contradictory, or insufficient attention. 
We must have a structure that can address the entire range of national security planning and execution--in other words, threat assessment and evaluation, development of requirements, R&D, acquisition and procurement, development of strategy and the conduct of operations across the entire spectrum, from large-scale conflict to peacekeeping and operations other than war. But this center would also help develop techniques, policies, and procedures to make civilian and commercial information technologies secure. 
To accomplish that mission, the information technology laboratory would have to: Support research and development by industry or Government-industry consortiums that aims to protect our privacy, shield our commercial interests, and defend our nation against information technology threats; ensure that there is a secure conduit for the exchange of information about security threats; provide a forum for developing and managing responses and contingency plans, both directly and in cooperation with a national command authority. 
The Information Technology Laboratory would be funded through annual appropriations as a Federally Funded Research and Development Center. But it should also be able to establish fee-based contracts with agencies of federal, state, and local government as well as universities for specific services so that budget costs could be kept to a minimum. 
The Information Technology Laboratory could also contract with private industry to do research and development, while taking special precautions to protect the confidentiality of proprietary data or information. The laboratory would also report annually to the appropriate oversight committees in Congress and the President. 
In just four years from now, knowledge and information workers will make up one third of all the workers in our multi-trillion dollar economy. We can create a safe corridor for their passage to the next century. Or we can continue to talk past each other while the Information Superhighway attracts more and more robbers and frauds and terrorists. 
We need to come to this task with a clear sense of purpose and full understanding of the urgency involved. America has gained much from information technology, and stands to gain much more as these systems mature. Our future depends on the success of this technology. 
But that success and our security depend on finding the policies and practices that will identify and correct vulnerabilities before they are exploited. Together, I am certain we can address this problem. In a noble but imperfect democracy such as ours, answers are not impossible, they are only impending. I look forward to working with my colleagues to face this challenge. I yield the floor.  
Mr. CRAIG addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I have a very simple proposition for the Senate. Let's close an accidental tax loophole for the heirs of people who leave estates worth more than $17 million and use the savings to help self-employed Americans--like the thousands of entrepreneurs on Nebraska's farms and ranches--afford the soaring cost of health care. 
Today I am submitting legislation to accomplish that purpose. 
The facts are very simple. Prior to 1997, when we passed the 1997 Balanced Budget Agreement, the first $600,000 of an estate was excluded from taxes. The old law gradually phased out this exclusion once an estate reached $17 million. The 1997 Act increases the value of an estate not subject to taxes. But a drafting error in the 1997 Balanced Budget Agreement failed to include the accompanying phase out of the exclusion on estates over $17 million. 
Clearly this error needs to be fixed. Letting this mistake stand uncorrected will cost the American taxpayers nearly $900 million over the next ten years. To give you an idea of how much this provision does to benefit the few, consider that in 1995, the Internal Revenue Service estimates that just 300 tax returns were filed on estates over $20 million. 
Congress had the opportunity to correct this error during consideration of the IRS Reform bill this year. Regrettably, the objections of a few to making this right overcame the support of the many for doing so. 
Meanwhile, Mr. President, self-employed Americans are struggling to cope with the rising cost of health insurance, which they--unlike Americans employed by others--cannot fully deduct from their taxable income. The face of their struggle is most evident on farms and ranches. In Nebraska, producers are facing plunging commodity prices at the same time they face soaring costs of living, especially for health insurance. Today they can deduct 40 percent of the cost of their insurance. Under current law, they cannot fully deduct that cost until 2007. 
So, my proposal is simple. Let's close the loophole that everyone admits was an accident, and use that money to accelerate the full deductibility of health insurance for the self-employed. It's a clear choice between a loophole that nobody wanted to exist and entrepreneurs who--especially those on our farms and ranches--may not exist much longer if we don't get them some help. 
While I recognize time is short for passing this bill this year, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation and in pursuing this goal next year.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to make a few remarks about a fellow Nebraskan and to celebrate the 30th anniversary of his legendary baseball season. 
`Let us go forth a while and get better air in our lungs. Let us leave our close rooms. The game of ball is glorious.'--Walt Whitman. 
Indeed, this year baseball has been `glorious.' 
The highlight of my job is traveling our state and going into communities to listen and learn. These learning discussions reflect the diverse and varied needs of our state, but this summer there has been one constant in all of my meetings. From Omaha to Ogallala, from Bellevue to Beatrice, everywhere throughout the State, Nebraskans have been talking baseball--specifically, the heroics of Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa. 
This year's heroics have left me reminiscing about the 30th anniversary of another magical summer, this one in 1968, when the eyes of the world were trained on a native Nebraskan--the great Bob Gibson. The St. Louis Cardinal unleashed onto the baseball world quit possibly the best season a pitcher has ever thrown. 
Nebraskans have come together to watch McGwire and Sosa pursue the number 61 in a way no one thought possible. It was as if these two hitting giants entered a zone unknown to us mortals. Before this season, it seemed unheard of to even mention the numbers 70 and 66. Allowing us to follow in their chase was like joining two explorers on the verge of discovering a new world. 
The highlight of many a long day this season was to watch the nightly edition of ESPN's Sportcenter and see which man was setting history that day. At a time when divisions were tugging at the seams of our political system, baseball brought us together. Every American--Republican or Democrat, right, left or center--found common ground in watching these baseball pioneers explore a new sports frontier. 
For me, only Bob Gibson's 1968 heroics match up with this season's, 1998 was as enjoyable as 1968 because of the tremendous season Bob Gibson had. As a New York Yankee fan, I have earlier, unhappier memories of Gibson. It was the 1964 World Series and the Cardinals were facing a tough Yankees lineup featuring Roger Maris, Mickey Mantle, and Whitey Ford. I was convinced the Bronx Bombers would win out. It was not to be. The determined Gibson won twice and finished off the series with a victory in the seventh and final game, earning the Most Valuable Player award. 
In 1968, Gibson was coming off another World Series MVP award as the Cardinals defeated Carl Yastrzemski's Red Sox the previous year. Gibson started that season with some hard luck losses and did not get going until late spring. But once he got going, there was no stopping this train. 
That summer I was in SEAL Team training in San Diego. A lot of people there were snarling, but none of them could match the menace Gibson wore on his face when he ascended the mound. When Gibson came to the mound, everyone in the park could feel his intensity. As his catcher, Tim McCarver, would say, he had the `Look.' It seemed as though Gibson could `Look' a strikeout before he even began his pitching motion. He was a command pitcher who mastered the edge he needed for each batter who dared to engage him in combat. His renowned discipline, his pure intimidation and his intellect for the game created a master craftsman in the art of pitching. Whether it be his blazing fastball or his snapping slider, the sight of Gibson with his right leg ominously moving from beginning to end, while unraveling his cannon of a right arm, exploding the unhittable white ball into the leather of the catcher's paws was a sight for all. 
In the beginning of June of 1968, Gibson began to unveil a performance so dominating, so powerful, it seemed as though the mystery of pitching had finally been solved and only Gibson had the blueprints, hand-delivered from the creators of the game. Starting in early June and finishing in early August, Gibson had thrown an astounding 10 shutouts. If not for one earned run against the Dodgers, Gibson would have finished with 71 straight scoreless innings, easily surpassing the record of 59 Orel Hershiser set in 1988. At one point, Gibson had pitched 95 innings, which is almost a half season for today's pitchers, and allowed only 2 earned runs, for an unheard-of ERA of 0.19. 
This season, Randy Johnson led baseball with six shutouts. In 1968, Gibson had 13, shutting out every team but the Dodgers. The end of Cal Ripken's streak this year reminded us of the value of baseball's work ethic. In 1968, Gibson was also a dominating workhorse, completing 28 of his 34 starts and going into the eighth inning in all but two. Led by his fastball and slider, Gibson was the league champion in strikeouts with 268. 
Recounting Gibson's 1968 season, Chicago Cubs Hall of Famer Billy Williams would say many right-handed batters suffered `Gibbyitis'--a mysterious malady that would somehow take batters ill on the day their team faced Gibson. 
Gibson finished the 1968 season with a 1.12 ERA--which is the record for over 300 innings pitched, besting Walter Johnson's 1.14 in 1913. He won both the Cy Young Award and the MVP of the 1968 season, while also earning another Golden Glove Award for his strong fielding. His recordsetting exploits did not end in the regular season, as he set another Herculean record when he mercilessly fanned 17 Detroit Tigers in the World Series. 
Bob Gibson dominated 1968. While doing so, he marveled America with a performance so strong, so masterful, so historic, that it should be remembered at a time 30 years later when two others stunned the country with their mythical skills. Nebraskans should be proud that one of us could produce such a season. I want to thank baseball for 1968 and 1998, both `glorious' years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate has agreed to this Sense of the Senate Resolution which would provide funding for the maintenance, security, custodial and long-term care of the memorial by the National Park Service. This is a significant step forward in bringing the World War II Memorial to fruition. What this resolution does is put the Senate on record as supporting public funding of some sort for the World War II Memorial which will be placed on the National Mall--our nation's front yard. 
I felt this resolution necessary because of the continued structural problems confronting the Korean War Veterans Memorial, which lies in the same flood plain that the World War II Memorial will call home. I felt it necessary that the Senate take on some precautionary responsibility for the maintenance and upkeep of what will be the most prominent memorial on the Mall. 
Next year, I intend to introduce legislation to fund not only maintenance, security, custodial and long-term care, but also construction costs to assist the Honorable Bob Dole in his fund-raising endeavor. 
I would again like to thank my colleagues, especially Senators Murkowski and Bumpers for their support and assistance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I want to express my disappointment with H.R. 3150, the Bankruptcy Reform Conference Report, and the decision of the Conference members to drop important provisions that would have helped our farmers. 
I voted for the Senate version of the bankruptcy bill because I believe it properly toughened provisions to keep bad seeds from filing for bankruptcy, while maintaining protections for consumers. I voted for the Senate bill because I worked hard to get important protections for farmers added to the bill. 
The Senate passed a bipartisan piece of legislation that not only was crafted in the best spirit of bipartisanship, but included valuable provisions to help our farmers, who are facing the worst economic crisis in a decade. 
I, along with my friend from Wisconsin, Mr. Feingold, worked hard to add provisions to the Senate bill to specifically help family farmers by increasing debt limits so that inflation levels are factored into their debt calculations; ease regulations related to income acquired off of the farm by families trying to make ends meet; and help farmers better structure their debt in order to continue to prepare for next season's crops and livestock. 
All of these provisions were removed in the Conference Report. 
I come to the floor today to make something clear. I will not let the Conference Committee's decision to exclude these important protections for farmers be the final word. I plan on doing everything I can during these remaining days to get these much needed farming provisions included in the Omnibus Appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, today I introduce a piece of legislation that, I believe, takes an important step toward giving more individuals the ability to earn good wages so that they can support themselves and their families. This bill will allow community colleges to use their campus-based student aid to assist students who are concurrently enrolled in a high school and in a vocational-technical program in a community college. This legislation helps us solve a national problem, but it also helps more young people achieve the American Dream. 
We must recognize that a degree from a four-year college or university is not the only ticket to a successful, productive life. Only 60% of high school graduates enroll in college, and only 20% end up with a four-year degree. Community colleges are playing an increasingly important role in helping the other 80% of our students obtain the advanced technical training that is vital to our economy and to their futures. 
Today the Senate also passed the conference report that will reauthorize vocational education. I am pleased to have played a role in this process. At my request the conferees have included language that will encourage institutions to investigate opportunities for tech-prep secondary students to enroll concurrently in secondary and postsecondary coursework. The bill that I am introducing today builds upon this concept in a tangible way. 
As we address the need for highly skilled workers in Nebraska and throughout the nation, we must change the way that we think about our education system, and especially the way that we think about those students who are on the verge of graduation. We must make certain that a high school diploma has real value, that it says to an employer, `I have the skills and the knowledge to make a valuable contribution to your business.' 
This legislation allows community colleges to offer a helping hand to students who are still in high school but have exhausted the vocational-technical offerings and are ready and able to enroll in such programs at a community college. Throughout the nation many students are already dually enrolled, but either the school district pays the tuition or the student must pay it. In Nebraska, more than 100 students in Omaha Public Schools are dually enrolled. And more than 50 in Bellevue Public Schools are dually enrolled. Some students have the ability to enroll in a vocational-technical program, but they do not have the financial means. By making this change in law, community colleges can assist those students if they choose to do so. 
With a Federal commitment of $7,400,000 last year, Nebraska provided vocational and applied technology education to approximately 70,000 secondary students and 47,800 postsecondary students. This money is a wise investment, but we need to do more. 
I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress next year to further our commitment to preparing our young people to achieve the American Dream.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to vote for this conference report and I urge the President to sign this bill into law. This legislation is an essential part of Congress' annual duty to provide and direct the resources which safeguard the independence of the United States and the lives and livelihoods of the American people. Chairman Shelby's leadership and sustained effort throughout this year come to fruition in this excellent bill and I congratulate him. I also appreciate the vision and hard work of Chairman Goss and Ranking Member Dicks of the House Committee, together with the leadership of Chairman Young at the conference. 
This legislation, like the intelligence agencies it authorizes, seeks to maximize America's capabilities against today's threats while simultaneously building capability against the threats of 2010 and beyond. The Intelligence Community cannot be pulled back from its deployed status for retraining and retooling. It is operating tonight around the world, seeking to monitor every environment which could threaten America or our allies. But the Intelligence Community must also be able to master the steadily more complex technologies which will be tomorrow's threat environments. The outlines of the new century are apparent, as we see the continuing explosion of communications media, the global growth of strong encryption, and the increasing porosity of international borders, to mention just of the future that are already upon us. In response to challenges like these, the conference authorized the start or continuation of a number of new technology initiatives, including most of those the Senate supported previously. 
The Committee's efforts to advance intelligence technology were greatly assisted by a group of outside experts who formed a Technical Advisory Group to the Committee. They helped the Committee focus on the future of signals intelligence and the necessity for the National Security Agency to modernize itself, as well as how technology could better support human intelligence. Their contribution of time and expertise is paying off already for the country, and they deserve the thanks of all of us. 
Throughout the authorization process, the two intelligence committees have understood that their efforts to prepare U.S. intelligence to master the future must be bounded by budgetary realities. Most of the intelligence budget is dependent on a defense budget which, as we all know, is under severe pressure. The intelligence agencies have ambitious projects, and it is part of our job to set financial limits and time constraints and closely oversee the progress of these projects. The conferees placed a cost cap on the National Reconnaissance Office's Future Imagery Architecture for this reason. 
The bill also encourages competitive analysis of important and difficult intelligence topics. The Jeremiah Report which reviewed intelligence community performance following this year's Indian nuclear test and the Rumsfeld panel report on the ballistic missile threat both stress the need to use competitive analysis drawing on experts from both within and outside the government. This bill encourages that process. 
Analysis will grow stronger in the coming year, not only because of this legislation, but because there is now in place, under the Director of Central Intelligence, an Assistant Director for Analysis and Production. This official has not been confirmed by the Senate, although he may well be in the coming year, but he is already using the Director's authorities to make analysis in the Intelligence community more effective and efficient. He and his counterpart, the Assistant Director for Collection Management, and their supervisor, the Deputy Director for Community Management, are already by their actions validating Congress' wisdom in creating these positions. As I go to briefings and learn how these officials are marshaling resources in times of crisis, setting priorities, and identifying gaps, I am pleased with the work we did two years ago. 
Another aspect of the intelligence business should be praised, Mr. President, and that is the unparalleled level of cooperation between the agencies these days. The relationship between FBI and the CIA is particularly strong and it has paid off most recently in the investigation of the attacks on our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Director Tenet and Director Freeh have overcome corporate cultures and bureaucratic impulses to forge a strong team for America and they deserve our thanks. 
Team-building and sound oversight both depend on the flow of information. The Senate had gone on record three times in defense of a Federal employee's right to bring classified information on wrongdoing to the appropriate committees of Congress. The House had devised a process by which such information could come to Congress while insuring the employee's privacy, making the employee's agency aware the information was going to Congress, and insuring the protection of sources and methods. The conference modified the House provision and agreed to make the information process faster. As one who has argued several times on this floor for the right of Congress to be informed, I am pleased with the conference outcome on this provision and with the work of both bodies. 
This legislation also recognizes the accomplishments of a great patriot, former President Bush, by naming the CIA Headquarters complex in his honor. From his initial service in World War II, President Bush has always stepped forward to do hard and sometimes dangerous work for his country. Leadership of the CIA has both characteristics. President Bush distinguished himself in that job, as in all his service, and I am pleased this legislation will honor him.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to urge the passage of H.R. 4655, the Iraq Liberation Act. Thanks to strong leadership in both Houses of Congress and thanks to the commitment of the Administration toward the goals we all share for Iraq and the region, this legislation is moving quickly. This is the point to state what this legislation is not, and what it is, from my understanding, and why I support it so strongly. 
First, this bill is not, in my view, and instrument to direct U.S. funds and supplies to any particular Iraqi revolutionary movement. There are Iraqi movements now in existence which could qualify for designation in accordance with this bill. Other Iraqis not now associated with each other could also band together and qualify for designation. It is for Iraqis, not Americans to organize themselves to put Saddam Hussein out of power, just as it will be for Iraqis to choose their leaders in a democratic Iraq. This bill will help the Administration encourage and support Iraqis to make their revolution. 
Second, this bill is not a device to involve the U.S. military in operations in or near Iraq. The Iraqi revolution is for Iraqis, not Americans, to make. The bill provides the Administration a potent new tool to help Iraqis toward this goal, and at the same time advance America's interest in a peaceful and secure Middle East. 
This bill, when passed and signed into law, is a clear commitment to a U.S. policy replacing the Saddam Hussein regime and replacing it with a transition to democracy. This bill is a statement that America refuses to coexist with a regime which has used chemical weapons on its own citizens and on neighboring countries, which has invaded its neighbors twice without provocation, which has still not accounted for its atrocities committed in Kuwait, which has fired ballistic missiles into the cities of three of its neighbors, which is attempting to develop nuclear and biological weapons, and which has brutalized and terrorized its own citizens for thirty years. I don't see how any democratic country could accept the existence of such a regime, but this bill says America will not. I will be an even prouder American when the refusal, and commitment to materially help the Iraqi resistance, are U.S. policy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, what is the order of business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19981007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to speak against the McCain second-degree amendment which would extend the moratorium on States taxing Internet transactions from 3 years to 4. The Finance Committee had knocked it back to 2 years. We thought that was a reasonable length of time, given that we allowed 15 months to restructure the IRS; 18 months in getting the Medicare Commission to do its work. We believed that 2 years was a reasonable period of time. I was willing to go along with an extension of that from 2 years to 3. To go to 4 years is just much too long a time. 
This is an issue where the Federal Government is intervening, saying the States can't raise taxes in a certain way. This is, in my judgment, without precedent. 
I am willing to support this piece of legislation. I am willing to provide this moratorium so we can reach an understanding of how we will tax these transactions. But to allow 4 years--when we allow approximately 15 months in getting a commission to restructure the IRS, and 18 months in getting Medicare, Mr. President--is an unreasonable length of time. 
I hope my colleagues will vote against the McCain amendment. We have been contacted by our Governors who are actually asking us to go along with the Finance Committee, which was 2 years. As I said, I'm willing to support a compromise to 3 years, but 4 years, given the amount of time we have allowed for some things that are more complicated than this, it is unreasonable and too lengthy a period of time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, during my October 5, 1998, floor statement on the 1999 Agriculture Appropriations Conference Report, I referred to and inserted for the record a chart showing a state-by-state breakdown of the Democratic and Republican ag relief proposals. I wish to clarify that the chart was not generated by the Congressional Budget Office, but rather an estimate prepared by the Senate Agriculture Committee staff based on the aggregate CBO estimate of the cost to remove the caps placed on marketing loans in the 1996 Farm Bill. 
Mr. President, I appreciate this opportunity to make this clarification. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19981005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, first of all, let me compliment the Senator from Mississippi for his usual articulate and persuasive fashion--always a gentleman, always wanting to work with us, regardless of momentary disagreements. I regret to say this is one of those momentary disagreements. 
I come to the floor today to offer arguments against this conference report. I had initially intended to offer a motion to recommit the report back to conference, but now that motion would be out of order since the House has reported it. I prefer that it go back to the conference rather than going on to the President. 
I appreciate very much the President indicating he will veto this bill. Perhaps if we can dispose of this conference report in a hurry, get the President's veto, the conferees can direct their attention to the objections the President has raised. Those objections are similar to the ones I will offer here this afternoon. 
Let me say, first of all, I do appreciate that there is bipartisan agreement that rural America is facing a real crisis. That is very good news. What the Senator from Mississippi said is quite right. There has been, throughout the year, a process of developing proposals, but there has been significant disagreement on one particular point; that is, taking the caps off the loan rate. We voted twice on that. It did not pass here in the Senate. I will talk about that later. I think, unfortunately, that ideological argument is getting in the way of our ability to be able to reach agreement. 
This conference report, I believe, fails in two areas: First, it does not achieve the goal of providing support, both to the farmers who grow the crop who are in serious trouble due to the prices, and those who are in trouble as a consequence of weather disasters. For livestock, this conference report fails to put the law on the sides of the producers and take action to make our markets work better. 
First, as to the amount of income support for grains, it is simply not enough. It is not targeted as it should be to the people growing our food. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19981005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, as to the income, the proposal in the conference report would be, approximately, for corn, 7 cents a bushel. That does not get the farmer much closer to either recovering the cost of production nor providing his banker confidence to lend him money again next year, 
and significantly, of all the tests that I trust as to whether or not the President's proposal should be a part of the conference report or not, economists will come forward and argue on both sides of practically any proposal you come out with. The Independent Bankers of America have endorsed taking the caps off the loan rate, not because it provides more income, and by no means does it provide a sufficient amount of income that we won't still have significant people going broke, but because it is attached to a marketing loan, it increases the chances that farmers who will need operating loans will be able to get them. 
Likewise, this conference report is inadequate because provisions were dropped that were passed in the Senate in July, which were to require price reporting for beef, and meat labeling requirements as well. The conferees have said to farmers and ranchers that they think the livestock markets work just fine. But I am here in a brief period of time to say that the markets are not working. 
Cattle feeders and ranchers have lost more than $2 billion in equity this year, with millions more being lost every week. When I am home--typically every weekend--the people in Nebraska are worried about their financial stability and they believe that this Agriculture appropriations bill, with the disaster package attached to it, will be terribly important for their financial stability. More deeply than just the money, they are worried about their way of life, because, in the final analysis, this debate is about much more than just the size and makeup of a relief package; it is about the future of rural America. 
We can see the future of our small towns and rural areas very clearly right now, and it doesn't look good, with prices low and economic conditions as hard as they are on our farms and ranches. 
Those who are not driven off the land in this crisis have already found that their children are not interested in the life farming has to offer. Two weeks ago, in Scottsbluff, I held a town hall meeting, and 60 people were in the room who are involved directly in production agriculture. I asked how many of them had children who would take over the farms, and I didn't get a single affirmative answer. Those with grown children had already lost them to the cities. Others said, `There is no opportunity out here.' 
That is what this Congress has the ability to change, and we can start with this piece of legislation. We need an agricultural sector that offers some opportunity, but first we must bring some stability to that agricultural sector. 
Again, I am pleased the President is going to veto it. Let me talk of the differences, specifically to our States. Again, I heard the distinguished Senator from Mississippi talk about economists who are saying taking the caps off of loan rates could have a depressing impact on price. I have not come to the floor and said that Freedom to Farm produced these lower prices. I think the lower prices are clearly there as a consequence of a declining demand in the international marketplace. Nobody is forecasting that demand is going to come back in 1999. Nobody expects the decline in exports to increase. I wish this Congress had been able to pass fast-track legislation. I have supported it in the past. I believe that, long term, it would help. But in the short term, we see substantial declines in income that are there as a consequence of this decline in demand and increased production that has occurred here in America. 
This package in the conference report versus what the President asked for is substantially different. I pointed this out before, and it bears repeating. In Nebraska, the difference is $434 million of income--this does not go to State government or county government; it goes to individual farm families--versus $177 million, almost a quarter of a million dollars. In Mississippi, it is $145 million versus $71 million. In Minnesota, it is $483 million versus $227 million. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19981005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, again, not only are our grain farmers adversely affected, but cattle producers and cattle processors have been as well. We have met extensively with our ranchers and our feeders, and they say to us two things need to happen, and they need to happen in order to improve our prices and increase the chances that we are going to get a market bid that is higher than what we are getting now. 
The first is mandatory reporting of prices, regardless of whether the prices occur in cattle that are owned by the feeder or cattle controlled through formula feeding, or some other contract by the packinghouse. Those prices today are not reported. We had extensive debate here on the floor about that issue. Unfortunately, the conferees dropped that. I believe that provision, all by itself, would increase prices for cattle in the United States, for beef, and would have a very positive impact as a consequence on our rural communities. 
Likewise, the meat labeling requirement included in the Senate bill was dropped by the conferees, and it is supported by almost all of the cattle organizations. There is some dispute on price reporting, although I think we can deal with the changes that we had in the conference language. There is almost no dispute, from the standpoint of the producer, on the need to put on the label information that allows the consumer to determine from where that product came. It is allowing the market to work. Rather than saying that the Government is going to impose a solution, we say inform the consumer where the product came from and let them decide. 
I hope, as I said in the beginning, that the President's veto of this conference report will lead to the conferees coming back quickly and looking, as no doubt they will, for ways to improve it along the lines of what the President has recommended. Not only are there tens of thousands of farmers who will survive if we can get this legislation passed and on to the President for his signature, as he has asked us to, but it will give us a chance to take a step in the direction of giving our rural communities a chance to survive. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask the distinguished Senator from North Dakota, one of the things we had hoped to do with this legislation is to get consideration similar to the disaster request which we all know will occur as a result of this hurricane. 
We have experienced this before. The Nation comes together as a country; suddenly we are Americans. A U.S. Senator asked to help the people in Mississippi, the distinguished majority leader's State. In Alabama, probably Florida as well, and Louisiana, clearly there are damages. Here comes a natural disaster. Here comes Hurricane Georges. Nobody could have prepared for that hurricane. It has destroyed people's lives, cost them hope. What will happen is, a disaster declaration will be made, a request will come to the Congress to put the law of the country on their side, to give them opportunity and hope again. That is what the law can do at its best; it can give people hope. 
I know this very well, I say to my friend from North Dakota. About a year and a half in a business, in 1975, a tornado hit Omaha, NE, and I thought we were pretty much out of business as a result of the tornado having blown us away. However, I come to find out, 2 days later, that Mayor Zorinsky, the mayor of Omaha at the time and the man who preceded me in the U.S. Senate, requested from the President of the United States, Republican President Gerald Ford, a disaster declaration, and the law was put on our side. It gave us a chance to build our business back, gave us a chance to pursue our dream. That is what the law tends to do. That is what the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts was talking about earlier. I get hundreds of calls a year, and, more than any other issue, people say, `Senator, I don't have any power when I am dealing with an HMO; can you change the law and give me some power? Can you help me in dealing with this entity?' We are trying to change the law not to create a bureaucracy but to give people some hope. 
My expectation will be, when the disaster declaration occurs for these southern States, it won't be a partisan issue, it won't be Republicans and Democrats, it will be U.S. Senators and U.S. Members of the House of Representatives rallying to try to make certain that people in the southern part of the country that have been damaged by this disaster are given some hope or given some opportunity. 
I say to my friend from North Dakota, I was surprised, as you were, late Monday night when the House conference on appropriations for agriculture rejected the President's request for disaster assistance for the Middle West that has been destroyed and damaged by a natural disaster, a decline in demand that has produced losses across the board in agriculture. Still the most important part of our economy, creating more jobs than any other sector of our economy, and farmers throughout the bread belt of the United States, the bread basket of the United States, have lost hope. I was very surprised that it would occur on a straight party line vote that Members--who will likely say yes if the President puts down a disaster declaration request for the hurricane--voted no. 
I say to my friend from North Dakota, they say, `We are reopening Freedom to Farm; that is the reason I'm to vote no.' 
I ask my friend from North Dakota if he is aware of the kind of income contribution that this disaster declaration will make to our States. There are many times when I come down here and deal with a piece of legislation and I ask myself, Will this have an impact on Nebraska? Will they feel it?--especially when I am talking to Nebraskan farmers out harvesting right now and who might not have seen what happened Monday night. Are you sure this will help? In Nebraska, the difference between what the President asked for and what the House conference, on a straight party line vote, voted for is $257 million. 
Rest assured, if this was a transportation grant, our entire delegation would be united. There is no Republican or Democrat differential when we are trying to get a $250 million grant for Nebraska. Yet there is a decision here as a consequence of this Freedom to Farm argument--$257 million worth of income to Nebraska. 
I have written the Midwestern Governors' Association and the Governors in those associations urging them to call their delegation as a consequence of not just what their State will lose but what their farmers are going to lose. Two hundred and fifty-seven million dollars' worth of income on Main Street America, in Main Street Nebraska, will make a lot of difference not just to farmers but to whether or not the businesses on Main Street will survive. 
In Iowa, the amount of money is $365 million. I have written Governor Branstad and urged in an immediate letter: `Governor, weigh in on this, because you are about to lose $365 million'; to the Governor of Illinois: `You are about to lose $341 million'; in Indiana, $182 million; 
in Kansas, $195 million; in Minnesota, $256 million; in North Dakota, $115 million; in Ohio, $133 million; in South Dakota, $149 million; in Wisconsin, $80 million. 
There are Senators from these Midwestern States who voted no for ideological reasons, because they don't want to reopen the Freedom to Farm. I don't understand that. This would make a tremendous difference in our being able to get through this recession. 
The President asked for a disaster declaration. As I said, I have written all of the Governors in these States putting out an appeal. It will occur when each one of these Governors are going to come to us and ask for considerably less, and the beauty of this is that it doesn't go to the Government, it goes to individual family farmers; it increases their income and makes it likely to get their operating loans extended for another year. 
I ask my friend if he is aware of the tremendous change in income pictures that will occur as a consequence of what the President has asked for and what the conferees turned down. Again, I ask a second question of my friend from North Dakota. He has had plenty of town hall meetings, just as I have. I am asked, `How do we persuade those easterners to go along with us?' The problem doesn't appear to be easterners, or people on the west coast either. Both Senators from California, both Senators from Connecticut, both Senators from Maryland, both Senators from Massachusetts, both Senators from Nevada, both Senators from New Jersey--even though they are not going to benefit--did precisely what the Senator from North Dakota said earlier. It is not just important for us to come here and defend our region, our Nation is in trouble. Our Nation is suffering as a consequence of the crisis and the disaster occurring in the Midwest right now. 
We are going to respond. We are going to vote aye because we know that we need to pull together as a country. I am sure that it is likely to be 100-0 when it comes time to decide whether or not we are going to respond to a disaster in the southern States that has occurred as a consequence of this hurricane. I come to the floor, Mr. President, to ask the Senator from North Dakota if he is aware of the tremendous amount of assistance that each one of these States is going to get, and if he, as well, hears from his farmers when he goes home, `How do we persuade the folks on the east and west coasts that we have a problem out there that needs to be addressed?'  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, just briefly, I appreciate very much the answer the Senator from North Dakota has provided. I want to make it clear again that I put out an SOS to the Governors of the Midwestern region, pointing out to them what they are about to lose. 
To the Governor of Illinois, $341 million of additional income to the State of Illinois. Is that going to make every farmer in Illinois prosperous? No. For all of the free market, plenty of people are still going to go broke in Illinois even at that. But $341 million, I say to the Governor. It is the same way in Indiana--$182 million; Iowa, $365 million; Kansas, $195 million; Michigan, $60 million; Minnesota, $250 million; Missouri, $120 million; Nebraska, $250 million; North Dakota, $115 million; Ohio, $133 million; South Dakota, $150 million; Wisconsin, $80 million. 
I have been a part of the Midwestern Governors Association. During the agriculture crisis, there was the appeal that we made to Congress. Our income is declining; our tax revenues are going down; we are not able to support our schools--many of the things that happen as a consequence of things beyond our control. We found a positive response in the Republican Congress in the 1980s. We came and made the appeal. The Congress responded with the new farm bill which helped us enormously. 
Mr. President, I hope this little presentation or request of the Governors, as well as our correspondence to the Governors, will produce a response. I hope and I pray that sometime in the next 10 days we can, as we most assuredly will--when the majority leader comes to the floor on behalf of Mississippians, and many other people in the South who have been damaged by Hurricane Georges, we are not going to walk down here with a partisan hat and say, `That is the majority leader, he is a Republican, and for ideological reasons I am going to say no.' We will say yes. 
I hope in the next 10 days that we can find a way on this Agriculture appropriations bill to send this bill back to conference and instruct the conferees to do the right thing, which is to grant the President's request for the disaster assistance, which will brighten the days of not just American farmers but also Americans who understand that our livelihood depends upon their success and their prosperity. I hope we are able to take our partisan hats off and deal with this thing as U.S. Senators and not as Republicans or Democrat Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, earlier this year Nebraska was recognized (along with our friends from Michigan) for being the best college football team in the land. But yesterday brought even better news about a number one ranking for Nebraska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise in support of H.R. 6, the Higher Education Amendments of 1998. As our economy becomes increasingly knowledge-based, this legislation represents an important step in helping individuals achieve the American Dream. 
A college degree expands learning horizons and increases professional opportunities. One of the most satisfying efforts we can make as public officials and legislators is helping Americans acquire the knowledge and skills needed to seize these opportunities. This bipartisan conference agreement makes important strides both in improving the education students receive within colleges and universities and in increasing access to higher education. 
Nationwide we have about 10 million students enrolled in four-year and two-year public colleges and universities. About 83,000 of those students are in school in Nebraska. We have about 2.5 million in private institutions--19,000 in Nebraska. This legislation helps those students stay in college and also opens the door for more students to obtain a college degree. 
Approximately $50 billion in this bill is devoted to postsecondary grants and loans for students. This is a wise investment for all Americans because this financial assistance to obtain higher education helps individuals increase their earning power once they graduate. When we increase the income of Americans, we reduce spending and in turn reduce the tax burden on our citizens. 
According to the US Census, college graduates make an average of $600,000 more over their lifetime than do individuals without a college degree. That differential has doubled in the last 15 years. 
An individual with a bachelors degree can expect to earn $1.4 million over the course of a lifetime. With a professional degree, that person can earn over $3 million in a lifetime. 
But currently, only 60% of high school graduates go on to college, and by the time they are 25 years old, only about 25% have a college degree. We need to focus more attention on those students who do not enroll in four-year institutions. For those students we need to create a more seamless transition from high school to the workplace, and we need to encourage those students to take advantage of the opportunities that community colleges offer. 
For those students who choose to seek a college degree, this legislation helps to make college more affordable. For instance, it cuts the student loan interest rate from 8.25% to 7.46%, which will save approximately $11 billion for students over the life of their loans. In addition it increases aid to the neediest of students by increasing the authorization for maximum Pell Grants to $4,500 for 1999-2000. We still have much work to do as we try to figure out how to make higher education more affordable, but this bill is a step in the right direction. 
The bill also authorizes $300 million to make significant improvements in teacher training. It establishes grants to partnerships between teacher education institutions and school districts to produce highly skilled teachers who are competent not only in their content area but also in the use of technology. It also encourages partnerships that recruit and train teachers to serve in high-need schools. In addition, it supports state-level efforts to improve teacher quality through State Teacher Quality Enhancement grants, which strengthen teacher certification standards and create alternative pathways into the teaching profession. 
I am also pleased to contribute personally to this legislation in a number of ways. The bill authorizes a Web-Based Education Commission which will study the issue of quality control in educational software and determine the need for a Federal role in helping parents, students, and teachers identify high-quality educational software. 
With Senator Wellstone and others, I helped expand student-aid eligibility for distance learning programs so that more non-traditional students will be able to obtain a college degree. We also worked together to achieve a $10 million authorization for Learn Anytime Anywhere Partnerships, which will provide competitive grants to partnerships between schools, community organizations, and other public and private institutions to develop innovative distance education models. 
Mr. President, this is a good piece of legislation, and I am happy to be a part of it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to comment on the situation in Iraq and to urge my colleagues to support the legislation introduced by the Majority Leader today. 
I spoke on Iraq on this floor last November and again in February, but Saddam Hussein is still in power, still threatening his neighbors and oppressing his people, so I must turn again to this topic. In fact, I will keep turning to it, joining my colleagues from both sides of the aisle, trying to change U.S. policy toward Iraq, because I cannot abide the idea of Saddam Hussein as the dictator of Iraq and I will never accept the status quo in Iraq. One of three things will happen, Mr. President: Saddam Hussein will lose his job, I will lose my job, or I will keep talking about him on this floor. 1998 has unfortunately brought us a new and less advantageous situation in our relationship with Iraq. First of all, other threats have pushed Iraq into the background. 
Asia's recession and the collapse of the Russian ruble have sent shock waves through all the emerging markets. Economic instability is usually the harbinger of political instability, which in turn threatens the peace between nations and the ability of weakened nations to maintain their own security. The Indian-Pakistani nuclear confrontation and the unravelling of Russia's military are two highly significant examples of this trend. Russia's crisis is particularly important because our security and that of our allies depends on Russia keeping its nuclear weapons and fissile materials out of the hands of the rogue states and terrorist groups which would deliver them to us, either by ballistic missile or by the rented or stolen truck favored by terrorists. 
Terrorism may or may not actually be on the rise, but terrorists have recently shown the intention and ability to attack American targets overseas. As we confront organizations like that of Usama bin Ladin, we come face to face with people who will go to great efforts to kill Americans, and we react strongly. In the aftermath of events like the bombing of Khobar Towers or the two embassies in Africa, we naturally move terrorism to the forefront of our threat concerns. As peace is gradually made in the world's most intractable ethnic and religious conflicts, terrorism ought to decline, but our rationality can not penetrate terrorist motivation. 
In addition, there is proliferation. Rogue missiles and their deadly cargoes are rapidly developing, and spreading: the North Korean launch follows launches by Pakistan and Iran and tests of nuclear weapons in both India and Pakistan. The trend in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is running against us as an increasing number of countries come to view these missiles as a low-cost way of placing the U.S. and our allies at risk without expending the resources to confront us militarily across the board. In a way, Iraq during the Gulf War was the precursor of this kind of thinking: they entered the war with a big army and air force, but in the end the only thing that made them a serious and deadly opponent was their arsenal of SCUD missiles. SCUDs and the like may be 1950's technology, but armed with biological, chemical, or nuclear warheads, these missiles are equalizers in 1998. 
And so, in this time of uncertainty and change, we rank the threats to our national life and to our individual lives and livelihoods, and we tend to forget Iraq. It is an old threat, after all, and we have lived with it for all this decade. In addition, Iraq seems held in check by its neighbors and by economic sanctions. Yet although the Iraqi threat may appear to be dormant, in fact the risk we and our allies run from the continuation of Saddam Hussein in power is in fact greater than it has been for years. 
We know, most recently and unambiguously from the former U.N. weapons inspector Scott Ritter, that Iraq's program to develop weapons of mass destruction continues. We know that more than fifty days have elapsed since the last UNSCOM weapons inspection. Almost two months of immunity have been granted to a regime which used chemical weapons on its own people, which seeks biological weapons, and which had an active and advanced nuclear weapons program. Further, Iraqi regime rhetoric, stated most recently by Tariq Aziz at the U.N. General Assembly meeting this week, notifies us that Iraq will no longer accept UNSCOM monitoring, at least not in an effective form. So Iraq's neighbors, and we, can expect to be threatened by Iraqi weapons of mass destruction of ever-growing lethality in coming years, with no collective international action to halt it. 
Saddam Hussein pays for his weapons programs by smuggling oil, at which he is getting more proficient, and by diverting resources which should be going to the Iraqi people. His military may be less capable than before the Gulf War, but his troops could still overwhelm the remaining areas of Iraqi Kurdistan outside his control. They could move north at any time or attack pockets of resistance in the southern marsh areas. 
It is strongly in America's interest that Iraq's neighbors and our allies in the region live in peace and security. That interest alone more than justifies a policy to change the Iraqi government. But there is an additional reason which ought to have particular resonance in the United States. Mr President, I refer to the need to free the Iraqi people from one of the most oppressive dictatorships on earth. 
We Americans, who have striven for more than two centuries to govern ourselves, should particularly feel the cruel anomaly which is the Iraqi government. In an age in which democracy is in the ascendant, in which democracy is universally recognized as a government's seal of legitimacy, the continued existence of a Stalinist regime like the one in Baghdad should inspire us to action. Saddam Hussein rules by raw fear. In terms of absolutism, personality cult, and terror applied at every level of society, only North Korea rivals Iraq today. The existence of such a government is a daily affront to every freedom-loving person, to everyone who is revolted by the degradation of our fellow human beings. I refuse to accept it, and I want the United States to refuse to accept it. As I have said on this floor before, when Saddam's prisons and secret police records and burial grounds are opened, when the Iraqis can at last tell their horrifying story to the international court which will try Saddam for his many crimes against his own people, we Americans will be proud we took this stand. 
Mr. President, over the past year we have made some progress toward a policy of replacing the Iraqi regime. The Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill passed by this body included funding for assistance to Iraqi opposition movements and for broadcasting to Iraq. The Administration has proposed a program to assist the Iraqi opposition abroad, to link the different groups together and get them organized. I support all these efforts, but they don't go far enough. The legislation before us takes the additional steps which indicate full commitment to helping the Iraqi people get rid of Saddam and his regime: the legislation states the commitment, and it enables the Administration to supply military assistance to the Iraqi opposition. 
Mr. President, should this legislation come into effect, we and the Administration should be prepared for the possibility that the Iraqi opposition may use the military equipment they receive, together with their own resources, to liberate some portion of Iraq. As I have said before that will be the time for the United States to recognize the opposition as Iraq's government and lift economic sanctions on the liberated part of the country. 
At this time in history, when some in the world seem ready to set aside their moral scruples and interact with Saddam, when the UNSCOM inspection system is at grave risk, when Saddam may attempt to break free of the sanctions which have restrained him since the Gulf War, it is urgent for the United States to clearly state its implacable opposition to Saddam and his regime. This legislation is the way to do that, and to simultaneously help Iraqis make their revolution. Besides strengthening the Iraqi opposition, this legislation tells Iraqis to keep up hope. It enables the Administration to tell Iraqis we know how bad Saddam is, we have the facts on him, and we will not rest until we see him in court. Iraqis will also learn that we understand the need to deal with the burden of debt Saddam has incurred, and we will work with Iraq's international creditors to find a solution for a post-Saddam Iraq. Iraqis will learn of our commitment to provide humanitarian assistance and democracy transition assistance to a post-Saddam Iraq. They will learn that an Iraq committed to democracy will be a welcome member in the family of nations. As they learn what we have done and what we are prepared to do, the Iraqi people will be our allies in an enterprise which will make them free, and America and its allies more secure.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I come to the floor, as the distinguished Senator from Kentucky said--as chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee--to make the same commitment that the Senator from Kentucky just made, that our committee will not fund any candidate who uses the personal problems or past failures of their opponent to win their election. 
The objective in a campaign is not just to win an office. And we all know in campaigns that there is a temptation to justify every means by the end that is in sight. As the Senator from Kentucky described himself, I describe myself the same way. I am not reluctant or shy to have full contact sport when it comes to campaigns, but I do believe that the ultimate objective of the candidate needs to be to not just acquire the office, but also to serve the larger good of preserving our Democratic institutions, in this case the U.S. Congress. 
I have been asked many times, and suspect the Senator from Kentucky has as well, Is this going to have a negative impact on your chances in the fall? He has probably been asked more times, Is this going to have a positive impact on your chances in the fall? 
But my answer has always been that my chief concern is that there are good men and women in America today who have thought about running for office--it may be the Senate or a local school board--and they have said, `Gosh, I don't want to go through what I see Henry Hyde going through. And if I run for office, that is exactly what is going to happen to me. I don't want everything that I have done since I was an infant to be drug out and paraded before the people of my district or the people of my city or the people of my State.' 
Far be it from me to say that any vote or statement or belief I have should be withheld. They should not be withheld and should be subject to the review and debate and discussion of the people. But my concern and why it is important that my colleague from Kentucky, whose suggestion this was, and I do this in this campaign is that if we do not exercise restraint and show American citizens that we will not fund candidates who use personal problems or past failures to win their office, the institutions of democracy will suffer. 
Forget the impact upon political parties. Neither party is going to do very well if citizens increasingly turn off and withdraw and say that `I may do many things for my country, but one of them will not be to be a candidate for any office' because of the fear that they have that something that happened 30 years ago or 40 years ago or 20 years ago--that is irrelevant to the campaign itself and that they have dealt with their family and their friends and their God, in whatever way that they felt was necessary--now becomes drug out into the open. 
So I join enthusiastically in making the commitment that we will not fund any candidates who do that. I appreciate that very much because what the Senator from Kentucky suggested serves the interests of democracy, and I am willing, as well, on the part of the DSCC to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I yield such time---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, in the spirit of the suggestion made by the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire and earlier, as well, by the Senator from Pennsylvania, I reached my conclusion as to what our law ought to be. This is unquestionably a decision that required not just a considerable amount of research about what our laws and our Constitution permit us to do, but also a considerable amount of soul-searching. 
In Nebraska, there are many people--friends, family and people whom I do not know--who have offered their prayers for me during this deliberation. Before I offer my own words as to why I believe the law as proposed is both unconstitutional and incorrect, let me say that I very much appreciate those prayers. I have offered them myself on this particular issue. I have had a career now of some 14 years serving the people of Nebraska and have told them almost from day one that though I may sound from time to time as if I am absolutely convinced on an issue, I have never, if the evidence proves otherwise, been unwilling to change my position. 
I say to my colleagues, I nearly did so in this case, on account of very good friends who were urging me otherwise, on account of the prayers and concerns and the good wishes that were extended to me by people in Nebraska. 
Mr. President, abortion is a choice a woman makes and, at least in my limited conversations with women who have had to make that choice, is a decision that produces a considerable amount of grief, a feeling that something has been ended no matter at what stage, whether it is done in the first week or whether it is done in the 15th week. No matter when it occurs, it produces a considerable amount of grief. Even when the termination is spontaneous, when it is a spontaneous abortion, a miscarriage, there is a sense of loss. Something has happened that was unanticipated. The idea of something good happening has been interrupted by something that is, to the woman's mind anyway, bad. 
It is very important, it seems to me, to begin with that understanding. I was very moved, I must say--in fact, I told the distinguished Senator from Pennsylvania--by an article not long ago about the struggles he and his wife endured. It was a very moving piece. It does, I think, something that very often is missed by the public--this comment is unrelated to this particular debate--it shows the human side of our Members. It is unfortunately true that people often see us through our positions, through the positions we have taken, our identity as a Democrat, a Republican and they form an impression. Sometimes we love you, sometimes we hate you, just based upon that position. 
I appreciate very much the willingness of the Senator from Pennsylvania to allow that story to be told because it shows the human dimension of this issue, and the grieving and the terror and the soul-searching that does occur. 
I say that, Mr. President, because one of the things that needs to be understood is, the law does not direct women to make this choice. It merely gives them the choice, the opportunity to make this decision. It does not make the decision any easier, it does not make the decision free of soul-searching and prayer, and, again, from my experience in talking with women who have made this decision, it does not produce a feeling that they have just done something wonderful. Indeed, some of the most powerful people in opposition to a woman's right to choose, to the current law, are people who have gone through this procedure. So people need to understand that we begin by extending our prayers, not just to us lawmakers, but to people who are going through this decisionmaking process. 
What we have attempted to do over the course of this debate is to balance the rights of the woman who is carrying the fetus and the fetus itself--not an easy debate. The Senator from New Hampshire again makes a case, I believe, that abortion in all circumstances should be illegal. It is very moving, and I am impressed by his passion and the commitment to this issue. 
But in the process of trying to settle this debate, Mr. President, we have been given guidance by the U.S. Supreme Court, and the guidance of the Supreme Court in both the decision known as Roe v. Wade and the decision known as the Casey decision in Pennsylvania. The language of these decisions needs to guide this Congress and needs to guide the American people in drafting legislation, drafting laws that determine how we are going to balance those rights. Otherwise, you should come as, again, the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire has said he would like to come, and change our Constitution. He wants to change the Constitution so the Supreme Court can reach a different decision than they did in either the Roe v. Wade decision or the Casey decision. 
Again, Mr. President, I am coming to the floor very mindful of the wishes and prayers of many people in Nebraska who have listened and heard this procedure described. And they say, `It's awful. How can you allow it to go on under the law?' And I am going to describe how I reached the conclusion that this piece of legislation would be, I believe, both unwise and, I believe, unconstitutional. 
First of all, listen to the language--first the language of the decision in 1973:  
For the period of pregnancy prior to this compelling point [that is the moment of viability; approximately 24 weeks into pregnancy], the attending physician, in consultation with his patient, is free to determine, without regulation by the State, that, in his medical judgment, the patient's pregnancy should be terminated. If that decision is reached, the judgment may be effectuated by an abortion free of interference by the State. 
That is us. That is what we do with our laws; we determine whether additional laws need to regulate this decision. 
Again, going on: 
With respect to the State's important and legitimate interest in potential life, the `compelling' point is at viability . . . 
I emphasize that. Very often I will hear people who are pro-choice advocates say, `Well, why are you doing this at all?' The Court did say there is a legitimate interest. The Court did provide us guidance as to how we can pass laws and restrict this type of health service. There are instructions that enable us to, if we wanted to. We could write legislation that followed this guidance. I will get to that point later: 
This is so because the fetus then presumably has the capability of meaningful life outside the mother's womb. State regulation protective of fetal life after viability thus has both logical and biological justifications. If the State is interested in protecting fetal life after viability, it may go so far as to proscribe [prevent] abortion during that period, except where it is necessary to preserve the life or health of the mother. 
Those are the instructions. And I am willing to vote, and have in the past, to place restrictions, to proscribe, and say that abortions cannot be done if the life or the health of the mother is not at stake. That is what the Court has said. And in many instances there have been challenges brought by people who have different views and say the Constitution does not provide that right. 
Again, most recently, in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the Court confirms: 
Roe's essential holding, the holding we reaffirm, has three parts. First is a recognition of the right of the woman to choose to have an abortion before viability and to obtain it without undue interference from the State. Before viability, the State's interests are not strong enough to support a prohibition of abortion or the imposition of a substantial obstacle to the woman's effective right to elect the procedure. Second is a confirmation of the State's power to restrict abortion after fetal viability, if the law contains exceptions for pregnancies which endanger a woman's health. 
So again, Mr. President, the Court has held--they have heard the arguments, and they have come back and said yes, to those who say that Government should not be engaged at all in writing laws, the State does have a legitimate right to proscribe abortions after viability. Again, I emphasize, I have voted for such restrictions. 
But the Court has held that there must be a protection for the woman's right to choose if either life or health are at stake. That is the language of the Court. That is what the Court has said under challenge from those who believe that the Court erred in its judgment in 1973. 
Thus, when the AMA comes and argues that this procedure should be banned, I give them heavy weight, substantial weight. But I have as well to give substantial weight to the Constitution and those who are interpreting that Constitution on our behalf, the U.S. Supreme Court. 
We should attempt, when we write laws governing abortion--for those of us who believe that a woman should have the right to make a largely unburdened decision, burdened only by her own conscience, which is substantial; I say it again for emphasis, I am troubled very often in this debate that an insufficient amount of attention is paid to the grieving, to the suffering, to the difficulty that a woman faces at this particular moment and afterwards--to balance the rights of the woman against the right of the fetus. That is what we should do. We should write a piece of legislation that keeps a constitutional balance in place. 
Mr. President, I believe this particular piece of legislation fails that test. It might, indeed, be a useful exercise, but it is going to be thrown out. It is going to be thrown out, Mr. President, because it does two things that the Court has said repeatedly are unconstitutional. 
First of all, let me just read the language, Mr. President. It is a fairly short and clear description of what the proponents would like the law to be. It says that: 
Any physician who, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, knowingly performs a partial-birth abortion and thereby kills a human fetus shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than two years, or both. 
That brings the State into it, obviously. The doctor could be fined or placed in prison as a consequence of doing this procedure in all States. It gives a right of legal action to the father. It gives a right of legal action to, I believe, the woman s parents as well. It gives the State the right to come in and bring a case against that doctor--but not, Mr. President, only post-viability. 
The language of this law does not reference either Roe or Casey. It does not say that this would apply only post-viability; it applies in all cases. And though it is quite true that many, as I understand it, of these procedures are done post-viability--and, by the way, there are many other procedures that are done, most of which, as they have been described to me, are equally grizzly and therefore difficult, on a personal basis, to sustain the argument that this is a good thing to do--many are done before viability. But the Constitution says that we are to provide that woman with an uninhibited choice in that previability stage. And this law makes no distinction between pre- and post-viability. 
Indeed, one of the reasons I supported Senator Daschle's proposal last year, which was sharply criticized as a way to provide political cover, is because it did address the legitimate interests of the State in the post-viability period. 
I have no idea whether or not there will be additional bills, or whether or not the President's veto will be overridden, but my guess is, even if the veto is overridden--assume for the moment that it will be--this will not be the last time that we address the question of the State role to regulate abortion, particularly post-viability. 
I say to my colleagues here, and to the people of Nebraska who have offered their prayers, that I am willing to enter into earnest negotiations with the goal of placing additional restrictions around abortions late in pregnancy. And this will probably involve some careful definitions around the issue of a health exception, and therefore the circumstances under which a woman can legally choose abortion. 
This bill would create an unspecified prohibition on a particular procedure--a prohibition that would result in the State putting restrictions on pre-viability choices and decisions that a woman and her doctor make. Thus, I believe strongly that the Court would find this legislation, this law, unconstitutional and that it would strike it down. 
Even more compelling--and I know we have had this debate before, and I don't want to drag it out because I want to merely offer my thoughts not so much to my colleagues, who I suspect have mostly made up their minds on this particular piece of legislation, but to the people in Nebraska--the Court over and over has used the words `life or health.' 
I heard the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire say he did not find any doctor who could justify this procedure. I don't remember his exact language. However, our reference in this case can't be only physicians. Our reference has to be the Constitution. The Court has given us instructions. They told us what we can do and what we can't do. Unless we change the Constitution, we are not going to be able to simply ignore the Court's repeated opinion that post-viability restrictions must include both life and health exceptions. 
Again, I come to the floor, having heard the prayers of thousands of Nebraska friends and people who I don't know quite so well, who have hoped that I would cast a vote to override this veto. I cannot. Not because I do not believe that the government has a legitimate interest to restrict abortions after viability. In fact, I believe it is in all of our interests to do so. 
This legislation does not do that. This legislation deals with a single procedure across the span of pregnancy. As a consequence of that, I cannot in either good conscience, or in faith to this Constitution, cast my vote to override the President's veto. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980910</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980910</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, 7 years ago last month, hard-line and aging Communist bosses in the Soviet Union made a clumsy attempt at a coup d'etat against then President Gorbachev. The coup accelerated the slow-motion implosion of the Soviet empire. By December of that year, our old nemesis had collapsed in an overwhelming, decisive and total victory for the United States. This ended 50 years of cold war that had exacted a tremendous toll in blood, sweat and treasure from our Nation. Our emotions ran the gamut from pride to relief--relief especially that the dark cloud of nuclear annihilation seemed to have passed and, in a more subtle way, relief that the heavy burden of leading the world in a battle for freedom against communism had been lifted from our shoulders. We clamored for a peace dividend. We reveled in our newfound ability to focus the Nation's energy on domestic affairs. 
But the last few weeks of events in Russia have been a rude wake-up call, a convincing demonstration that neither the danger nor the burden have been lifted. If anything, Mr. President, they are greater. Russia's economy and currency have been stressed to the point of breaking. President Yeltsin's government is in grave crisis. The men and women who tend Russia's nuclear arsenal--the one remaining threat on this planet to the instantaneous extinction of the United States--have not been paid, by some reports, inasmuch as a year. 
The danger is still great, Mr. President, but so is the burden, and it is that burden I want to discuss this evening. 
We may react to these developments with a tinge of surprise. It is an axiom of the American tradition--an axiom, incidentally, in which I firmly believe--that democracies do not behave this way. When last most of us tuned in to the Russian saga, they had held democratic elections. They had abandoned central planning and other tenets of Communist ideology and embraced basic precepts of capitalism. They had agreed to swallow the magic elixir that we all assumed would cure the disease and now--just when we thought it might be safe to retreat from our global responsibilities--they are sick again. And once again, the burden of global leadership is thrust upon us. 
What happened? 
Let me stipulate, first of all, that I don't believe capitalism and democracy are magic elixirs that cure all diseases in a single dose. But I do believe that, taken as a rigorous regimen of treatment, they are about as good a cure for a whole variety of ills as we will ever find. 
What we are learning, Mr. President, isn't that democracy and free markets are bad medicine, but that it is tough medicine that works as part of a sustained regimen. We are learning that democracy does not exist simply because the first election was called, and that capitalism does not exist the moment after the central planners are fired. Infrastructure must be built to sustain and manage these systems in a lawful manner. I believe the true test of the success of Russia will be determined by our ability to help the Russian people build this infrastructure. 
The first institution that must undergird capitalism and democracy is the rule of law. The importance of that institution is illustrated by one of this century's great inventions, the airplane. Five years passed from the first successful flight at 
Kitty Hawk to the first public demonstration of the `Wright Model A' in France. The reason is that the Wright brothers were busy litigating a patent. It was that protection--the protection of law for their invention--that unleashed the ingenuity of the air age. Without the knowledge that the law protected their right to earn a living off their own ingenuity, the air age might never have been born. 
It is exactly this sort of simple institution of law that makes capitalism possible. Such institutions do not yet exist in Russia. 
There is a joke that in America, when two businessmen agree on something, put their agreement down on a piece of paper and sign their names to it, they have a contract. In Russia, all they have is a piece of paper. Without the rule of law, the simple act of opening a business, marketing a new idea or so much as buying a house becomes foolish and risky. 
What we have learned, and what the Russian people are learning, is that democracy is also hard work, and our challenge now is to help the Russian people build the institutions that enable freedom to succeed. That Russia is still struggling to make democracy work should come as no surprise to us. For 222 years, we have been struggling with the same questions. On this day we are debating a bill whose goal is to fine-tune our own democracy. We helped the Russian people become free; now we must help them do the much harder work of being free. Mr. President, the true test of the success of Russia will be determined by our ability to help the Russian people build this infrastructure. 
Despite these tall hurdles, the Russian people deserve credit for the long distance they have traveled. 
They have created a democratic environment with the guarantee of essential freedoms like speech and press. 
They have a functioning democratic electoral system. Boris Yeltsin is the democratically elected President of Russia. In turn, there is a democratically elected Duma controlled by an opposition party. As a result, Russia has learned the lesson that we in this body know all too well--democratic politics sometimes means gridlock. 
Here as I see them are the areas in which Russia has fallen short: 
Simply put, they have not done enough to establish the rule of law. 
Because the style of capitalism they have implemented does not rest on the solid base of the rule of law, economic interactions have become distorted and unstable. 
The government has not lived up to its responsibilities, and by failing to collect taxes and pay pensions, back wages and so forth, the government has lost the faith of the people. Corrupt privatization of state-owned enterprises and the failure to implement reforms, such as the protection of private property, have given the people a distorted vision of capitalism. 
Take just the collection of taxes. We all know in this body that we just reformed the laws governing our Internal Revenue Service and reformed them because a significant percentage of Americans no longer trusted the tax collector. 
But what we failed to acknowledge is, as bad as our system is, and as much as it can be improved--and I hope this legislation will improve it--a well functioning tax collector is a critical part, and a trusted tax collector is a critical part, of a functioning free market democratic form of Government. 
As a result, the Russian people have become discouraged by `cowboy capitalism' and do not realize a true market economy should have the checks and balances of the rule of law. 
Mr. President, we cannot be content to treat these simply as Russia's problems. And I submit there are three reasons why we cannot. 
First, Russia's problems are our problems. Our own economy is not closely entwined with theirs, but it is not insulated either. Furthermore, the potential consequence of allowing this economic crisis to spread throughout the world poses too great a threat to our own economic security to stand idly by and watch the total collapse of the Russian political and economic system. Much more ominously, political instability and nuclear weapons are a dangerous mix. 
Second, the Russian people are human beings who are suffering. Our hearts and hands of assistance should go out to them. 
Third, and most important, the United States of America is the firstborn child of democracy in the modern age. We are the oldest and most successful, and when democracy is being born, history has called us to the duty of being its midwife, not a disinterested observer in the waiting room. We may wish this burden had been not cast on us, but it has. This is our duty. 
Mr. President, what can we do? 
First of all, I believe we must look at Russian democracy in terms of decades, not just years. The future is still very bright for them. It is a great nation blessed with vast resources and talented people. I remain confident that the transition to democracy will be successful. Nothing will cool their ardor for democratic reforms more than if we become pessimistic about the possibility of their democracy surviving. 
We know it is tough. We know it is difficult. All of us have faced difficult moments in a democracy where we have wondered whether or not our system itself could work, but we always rise to the task. We always manage to rise to the challenge, to do that little more that is necessary to make our system work. We simply have to say to the Russian people over and over: `Do not be discouraged. It's far better than what you had before. The rule of law and the opportunity to govern yourself will be frustrating, it will produce disappointments, but do not stop persevering. Your children and your grandchildren will reward you with praise if you do.' 
Secondly, Mr. President, we have to continue to engage Russia as a partner. Not only is it desirable for us to do so as a consequence of their need, but it is desirable for us to do so as a consequence of ours. They are a permanent member of the Security Council. They are actively involved in many of the most important world issues that we face. And it is imperative that we continue to treat them as a full partner. 
Third, we must continue to support the International Monetary Fund. While imperfect, and certainly demanding reform itself to become more open to our observation to know what they are doing and the decisions that they are making, it is still the only institution that pools the world's resources to address large-scale financial crises. I am pleased that the Senate has once again passed legislation to provide $18 billion to replenish the IMF's capital base. 
Next, we must continue to work with the Russians on arms control and security issues. Instability in Russia is still the greatest foreign threat to our safety. Working to reduce nuclear and conventional arms will help Russia financially and improve the safety of the American people. 
I do not mean to imply by that that arms control all by itself will solve this problem. We have lived through the tragedy of disarmament from the Second World War. We watched what happened when this Nation said in the 1920s: There are no threats out there, and therefore we are going to disarm. We have an obligation, based upon that memory, to keep our military and Armed Forces as strong as necessary, not just to meet today's threats but to meet tomorrow's threats. Still, it is true that the great amount of effort to reduce the stockpile of nuclear weapons will produce tremendous benefits not just to the people of the United States but to the people of all of this world. 
Our most important long-term challenge, though, is working with Russia to develop the rule of law. This has to be a hands-on process of teaching. I believe the most important effort is likely to be the least expensive, and that is just long-term exchange programs, giving their people a chance to come here to see how democracy works, to understand the importance of having that law there to protect you not only so you can speak but so that you can start your business and enjoy the benefits that come as a consequence of the reward that we provide people in the market system--and it simply isn't there--to show them that we have also faced in the past problems with Government officials who are corrupted, but again the rule of law is there to protect the people, that they cannot tolerate corruption and they need not tolerate corruption in order to have a market system, and that they should not be discouraged as a consequence of the failures and the problems that they experience in the birthing years of their democracy and their market system. 
We need to tell them, Mr. President, as we no doubt can, that we experience similar problems, that it is a long voyage, that we on the Fourth of July, we on Memorial Day, and we on Veterans Day, and we in great moments in our history stand and pay tribute not to ourselves but to our forefathers for the sacrifice of blood, for the sacrifice of treasury, for putting themselves on the line for our freedom. 
We need to say that the burden on freedom is a great burden, that freedom is not free, that in wartime we must do as John Miller in `Saving Private Ryan' did--put down our chalk and give up our careers as teachers and put our lives on the line at the beaches of Normandy. 
But in peacetime the burden is, we have to put our own selves on the line to fight to make our laws give people the protection and the freedom that they deserve, to come together and argue, to come together with our ideas, as we do here, day after day after day. 
We have, I think, an opportunity, through exchange programs, through very small hands-on efforts, an opportunity to show the people of Russia that their great character that enabled them to turn back Napoleon, that enabled them to turn back Adolph Hitler, that enabled them to survive so much that it is almost unimaginable that they were able to get the job done, that a people that can do that can make democracy and free markets work not just for them but for their futures. 
Mr. President, I hope and believe indeed there is reason to have optimism, that this Congress will not, on behalf of the American people, shirk our responsibilities and our duties to work with the people of Russia to make this experiment in democracy in their country as big a success as it has been for us. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I do not know if the distinguished Senator from Connecticut said anything between the time I left my office and came here to the floor with which I disagree, but in the time that I watched him from my office and listened to his words from my office, and from what I have heard him say in conclusion, I have come before the Senate and I don't disagree with a single word that the Senator from Connecticut has said. 
I have passed a few words my way at the direction of the President from time to time, some of them a bit more harsh than I would have liked and preferred. It is sometimes my nature to say things a little too loudly than is deserved in a particular situation. And I have at the same time praised, as I heard the distinguished Senator from Connecticut do, the President's numerous accomplishments. And they are numerous. I do not question his patriotism. I do not question his instinct for service. I have praised his job as Commander in Chief and have said to the country that there is no better example than Bill Clinton that a civilian with no military service can be our Commander in Chief and can learn as he did, the hard way in Somalia. There are tremendous responsibilities that come with that job; and he has listened to the men and women who serve our country. He has been an exceptional Commander in Chief. 
I praised him on a number of other occasions where he has performed in a remarkably generous and good-hearted way. 
I have found, as the Senator from Connecticut did, much with which I disagreed in his statement. I believe it is important for those of us who serve, especially in leadership responsibilities, as I do on the Democratic side, chairing the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, to come and say that this is not just inappropriate behavior. 
I have heard the Senator from Connecticut and his leadership in calling our attention--by that I mean those of us who serve here in Congress. We all get, from time to time, a bit isolated. I work hard and long trying to do the best that I can for the people of Nebraska. It doesn't give me much time to watch daytime television, to watch what is being broadcast, to listen to what is being said, to consider how this could damage the moral fiber of our Nation, especially the moral fiber of our children upon whom we depend for so much. And he has come to us and told us what is going on and called to our attention that we need to be mindful of the things that we say and the things that we do because our young people will very often do as we say, far less than they do as we do--they will follow our example. 
Thus, it seems to me what the Senator from Connecticut has done is come as an American--not as a Democrat, but as an American, as a U.S. Senator. I wish to join him and say that the President has got to go far further than he did in his speech to the Nation. This is not just inappropriate behavior. This is not a private matter. This is far more important for our country and threatens far more than his Presidency, unless we deal with it in a more honest, and as the Senator from Connecticut has said, noncondemning fashion. Lord knows, I am the last person--the Senator from Connecticut said he was a sinner, and I am at least as big. I do not come to the floor arguing that I have superior moral authority to comment on the President's behavior. I am coming simply to say that it is far more than inappropriate, and it is, unquestionably, public. It is serious beyond our ability to do our work. 
I think that we can come back as a Congress and finish out our business and perform our responsibilities and do the things that we ask permission to do and we sought the power of this office from our people to do. But there is a moral dimension to what we do that in many ways may be more important than any legislation that we enact. 
So I have come here to thank the Senator from Connecticut. It was a thoughtful presentation. They were words that we needed to hear. I believe, in fact, they could become the foundation, the basis, for us to heal a wound that will otherwise not just divide Democrat from Democrat--which is likely to occur--but open up a fissure in America that will make it difficult for us to do what all of us, I believe, think is the most important thing to do, and that is to help our children acquire the character they need not just to be good working people but to be good human beings. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I support the amendment offered by Senator Dodd that requires the declassification of information pertaining to human rights violations in Guatemala and Honduras. Americans citizens and their relatives, as well as many Guatemalan and Honduran citizens, were victims of gross human rights violations in these nations, and it is our government's duty to provide them with as much information as judiciously possible. Further, I believe the release of this information will help the democratic governments of Guatemala and Honduras pursue justice, acknowledge the truth, cement the rule of law, and help enable the healing of these societies rent by decades of civil war. 
When we deal with the declassification of intelligence information, the issues are never simple. The mission of our intelligence agencies is to collect information that will protect American lives and preserve our national security. But, in order to provide this vital information, our intelligence personnel must persuade clandestine sources to provide information covertly, and they must use specialized methods that help collect and protect those secrets. Revelation of sources and methods, even if done in pursuit of moral ends, will only increase the threat to American lives and security. Revelation of sources and methods would, ironically, diminish America's ability to get information on human rights abuses. This amendment has been crafted with an awareness of the need to inform Americans more broadly while at the same time protecting intelligence sources and methods. I appreciate Senator Dodd's understanding of these issues and his leadership on this amendment. 
American citizens and their relatives have been wrongfully imprisoned, injured, raped, and killed during the course of the civil wars in Guatemala and Honduras. Our government may not have all the information they seek about what occurred in these countries, but what relevant information we do have we should provide them. This amendment will help their pursuit of justice and hopefully provide answers to the many questions that surround these events. 
Fortunately, the violence and strife that plagued Guatemala and Honduras over the years has abated. These nations now have democratic governments that bring hope and promise to their citizens. But, each of these nations must face their past in order to build a just and prosperous society in the future. The Guatemala Clarification Commission and the National Human Rights Commissioner in Honduras are integral to this process. The information that will be provided to these groups under this amendment can only help bring healing and promote peace in our hemisphere. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to offer my thoughts on the bill currently pending before the Senate. In particular, I would like to comment on the inclusion of the $14.5 billion to replenish the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) capital base and the $3.5 billion for the New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB). I appreciate the responsible action taken by the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee and the full Appropriations Committee in including these provisions in this bill. 
The continuing international financial crisis poses too great of a threat to the economic prosperity of the American people for Congress to delay action on funding the IMF. The economic disruptions in Asia are impacting U.S. export markets and having an adverse effect on the U.S. economy as a whole. In my home state of Nebraska--where 45% of all exports go to East Asia and support 56,000 jobs in agriculture, food processing, transportation, and manufacturing--people have already felt the effects of the Asian crisis. The economic repercussions in the United States of a further spread of the Asian financial flu should not be underestimated. For this reason, swift Congressional action is necessary to restore confidence and hedge against future disruptions. 
Aside from the economic consequences, I am deeply concerned this crisis could affect our security interests. For anyone who doubts the national security ramifications, all you have to do is to turn on the television to see the effects of spreading instability. The political chaos in Russia that has resulted from their economic troubles threatens not only Russia's free market reforms but the historic democratic achievements of the Russian people. The political and economic collapse of Russia would favor elements intent on returning to the days of dictatorship and central economic planning. Cooperation with Russia would be replaced with conflict; our peace and security would be threatened. 
The Senate passed legislation earlier this year as a part of the FY98 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill that would have provided the full $18 billion requested by the President for the IMF. However, funding for the IMF became mired in non-related, political battles and was not acted upon by the House of Representatives. The failure to act at that time was irresponsible. The failure to act now would be disastrous. 
Mr. President, while there is no guarantee that timely Congressional action on IMF funding could have helped avoid the current difficulties in Russia and Asia, we should not wait for economic instability to spread and to further jeopardize the economic health and safety of our nation. We must act now to restore confidence and promote economic growth in the United States and in the global economic system. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to address a very serious problem facing U.S. telecommunications service and equipment suppliers. The International Telecommunications Union is currently considering the implementation of a family of world standards for the next generation of digital wireless communications. These ITU standards will have a significant impact on the ability of American telecommunications equipment and service suppliers to compete in the competitive world telecommunications market. European nations, working through the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), proposed a standard to the ITU based on Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM), the only digital standard permitted by law in Europe. The ETSI proposal is not compatible with American developed CDMA technology and if adopted by the ITU it could have the affect of shutting U.S. CDMA manufacturers out of the world market and rendering such investments obsolete. In light of the EU's decision to only submit a GSM standard to the ITU it is important that the United States take steps to ensure that American developed technology is not left behind. 
The sense of the Senate I offered today with Senator Lott, sends a strong message that the Federal Communications Commission and other appropriate executive branch agencies should take all appropriate actions to promote U.S. technology in this ITU proceeding. At the conclusion of the World Trade Organization Basic Telecommunications Agreement, the Administration assured Congress that the telecommunications markets of America's largest trading partners would be open to U.S. companies. However, the European Union is considering a technical standard for itself that could lock U.S. manufacturers out of the European market. A similar result in the ITU would be devastating. I am pleased today that the Senate has sent a clear statement to U.S. negotiators that the pending ITU standards must not reflect a narrow and harmful standard that locks American wireless technology out of world markets. Instead, U.S. negotiators should promote a family of standards that are compatible with U.S. technologies and safeguard American interests. 
The ITU is now on notice that whatever standards it may adopt next, such standards must be harmonized or compatible with each other. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am delighted to be joined by Senators Moynihan and Breaux in offering this important Sense of the Senate on reducing the payroll tax burden. This Sense of the Senate is simple: the payroll tax is the biggest, most regressive tax that working families in this country face. According to the CBO, 80 percent of American families pay more in payroll taxes than they do in income taxes. 
Here's what that means. The average household income in 1996 was $35,492. That family, taking the standard deductions and exemptions, paid $2,719 in Federal income tax. But they paid a whopping $5,430 in payroll taxes--double what they paid in income taxes! 
What this Sense of the Senate says is that if we talk about relieving the tax burden on American's families, we ought to look first at the payroll tax burden. After all, of the over $1.5 trillon surplus we expect to generate over the next ten years, all but $32 billion is being generated through payroll taxes. If anyone is going to get tax relief in this country, it ought to be the working people responsible for that surplus. I urge my colleagues to support this Sense of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this amendment is offered by myself and my colleague from Nebraska, Senator Hagel. We intend to talk on it for a brief period of time and then we will withdraw the amendment. 
I offered this amendment in a similar fashion on the HUD and independent agencies appropriations bill. We, since that time, entered into negotiations with the Environmental Protection Agency and it is possible that the problems we have in Nebraska will be resolved. It is also possible that the issue does not get resolved. If that is the case, I want to alert my colleagues that there will be an opportunity to vote on this amendment at some point, if Senator Hagel and I and the rest of the Nebraska delegation are not able to get satisfaction from the Environmental Protection Agency. As I said, they are attempting to work with us at this point to try to resolve this problem. 
The problem simply stated is that, under the rulemaking of the Safe Drinking Water Act, there was established a lead and copper rule. Under the procedures of the Safe Drinking Water Act, these rules get reviewed every 6 years, so it is an appropriate time--it has been 7 years--an appropriate time for us to be reevaluating the science supporting the rule itself. That is essentially what we are challenging to begin with. 
There is not a single city in Nebraska that has copper in excess of 1.3 milligrams in its water supply. So, you say, what is the problem? The problem is that if water sits in copper pipes overnight, the first draw on that water will produce copper in excess of 1.3 milligrams in some of our systems. Thus, our cities are being asked to invest millions of dollars to take care of the problem by removing the copper in a manner that is acceptable to the EPA. That will become a very critical part of this issue, because the EPA tells us what is and is not acceptable to take care of a problem that, as I said, has not produced a public health problem in Nebraska. We don't have a public health problem in Nebraska. We don't have any public health people saying we believe there is a clear and present problem with copper, a problem such as exists with lead. With lead, there is a public health problem, although not in Nebraska. With copper, we have no public health problem. What we have, instead, is a scientific evaluation by EPA which has caused them to say we should not allow any more than 1.3 milligrams per liter of copper in drinking water. And as a consequence, all across the country EPA is asking cities to invest substantial amounts of money to treat and reduce the concentration of copper below 1.3 milligrams. 
I have a chart here. Some statements have been made by other institutions in regard to what is a safe amount of copper, which I would like to read, just to establish that there is a significant amount of dispute on the science of this. 
 Not a small amount of dispute, but a significant amount. 
The World Health Organization has established 2 milligrams per liter as their standard for copper in drinking water. That is 60 percent higher than 1.3 milligrams per liter. 
In Canada, they have declared 5.3 milligrams per day as the lowest oral dose at which local GI irritation was seen. 
The National Academy of Sciences in 1977 said: 
Limited data are available on the chronic toxicity of copper. The hazard from dietary intakes of up to 5 milligrams per day appear to be quite low. 
A longer statement, made in 1994 by the Centers for Disease Control in regards to a study in Nebraska--this study is currently being peer reviewed, which EPA needs to have in order to make a final determination: 
. . . at the time of the survey, people were not experiencing GI related to the level of [copper] in their drinking water, even though 51 of the selected homes had [copper] drinking water levels that were greater than two times the EPA action level the year prior to the study. . . 
There is a significant amount of scientific disagreement as to what the standard ought to be. Again, we are not experiencing a public health problem. If we are experiencing a public health problem, let's get after it and deal with it. That is what the Safe Drinking Water Act is all about. If you don't have a public health problem, you should not, in my judgment, be requiring the municipalities to make an investment that produces no benefit. That is basically what we are talking about here. 
The municipalities have a limited amount of money. They have to go to their taxpayers to pay for any treatments to drinking water. We go to taxpayers through the state revolving loan fund. We then provide funds to the States and the States and municipalities make the determination: How do we spend our money so as to maximize the public health in our community? The states and the municipalities are telling us that they don't see a public health problem with copper, but they are willing to try to work with the Environmental Protection Agency to solve this problem. 
Mr. President, first of all, we have asked the Environmental Protection Agency to allow the National Academy of Sciences to impanel a study group to evaluate the science that underlies this standard--a peer reviewed evaluation--and come back and say, `This is our current estimate of the situation, our current estimate based upon reviewing all the science, particularly the peer-reviewed science that is out there; this is what we see the current situation to be.' 
Allow EPA, in short, to do what the Safe Drinking Water Act says it is supposed to do, which is to review these regulations once every 6 years. It has been 7 years. There is plenty of evidence that would indicate it is time for EPA to review this standard, including other people's evaluations, and as I said, the presence of an overwhelming fact, which is that we are not experiencing public health problems in Nebraska. 
In our negotiations--Senator Hagel, Congressmen Bereuter, Christensen and Barrett--we had a meeting yesterday with EPA. We are asking EPA to empower and to contract with the National Academy of Sciences to do a study of the science underlying this rule to determine whether 1.3 milligrams per liter is reasonable. If we get a `yes' on that request, which we don't have at the moment--as I said, my colleagues may be spared the opportunity of coming down here and voting on this amendment. 
There is another problem we are experiencing with EPA. Again, we talked with region 7, and we talked, as well, with Administrator Browner, and perhaps we can get true flexibility. We have asked for flexibility in dealing with this problem. I will describe for my colleagues one of the things the Nebraska department of health asked the Environmental Protection Agency for, in terms of flexibilities in implementing this rule, and the answer from EPA was no. They asked if it would be OK if the State of Nebraska paid for the removal of copper piping and copper fixtures, get rid of 
the copper altogether as a solution to this problem. The answer from EPA was that this is not one of the acceptable solutions that is on their list. 
Eliminating the copper was not an acceptable solution to the EPA, Mr. President, nor was it acceptable to engage in a significant public health campaign to help people understand--and to ask them to flush, once a day, the water in their systems to remove the copper that leached into the water after sitting overnight in the pipes--especially in smaller communities where you have a relatively small audience. EPA was saying things like, `Well, yeah, but somebody could get up in the middle of the night and have to go to the bathroom and maybe forget and take a drink of water.' 
This is the sort of reason given to people to support legislation like the Safe Drinking Water Act? We want the Government to be a positive force in keeping our people safe, but when we hear rationale like this, we scratch our heads and wonder whether or not it is all worthwhile. 
We seem to frequently run into this sort of inability to bring common sense to the process. I am hopeful that Administrator Browner--she was very positive yesterday--I am hoping Administrator Browner will, first of all, ask the National Academy of Sciences to do a study of the underlying science, which is overdue given the conflicting analyses we have seen; and, second, to direct region 7 to work with us to get a flexible plan that enables us, bottom line, to have our cities and our States saying to us, `We have identified a solution here; we have a means of dealing with this; here is what it is going to cost us; we are willing to make this investment.' 
Understand, at the community level where they are drinking the water, they are saying, `There are public health problems that are much larger than this. We don't have anyone getting sick from copper. We understand you all think we ought to be getting sick at these levels, but we are not. We are willing to work with you and willing to make an investment, but we want that investment to be justified. We want the cost to track somehow with the benefit. We want to be able to say here is the benefit we are getting with the cost of the expenditure itself.' 
I am pleased to inform my colleagues, at the conclusion of Senator Hagel's and my remarks on this, we are prepared to withdraw this amendment and not put you through the process of voting on this at this time. But if we are not able to get a satisfactory answer from Administrator Browner, I inform my colleagues there will be an opportunity to vote on this amendment. 
My guess is that any of you out there who have municipalities that are discussing this with the Environmental Protection Agency--I guarantee you, all you have to do is talk to your colleagues in Minnesota and ask them how it worked. They implemented the EPA plans for copper removal, and it hasn't worked in nearly half of the 130 water systems they were forced to treat. They did everything the EPA told them to do to reduce copper levels and it didn't work. They still have the problem and are now scratching their heads and trying to figure out what they are going to do next. 
Mr. President, I appreciate the indulgence of the Senator from South Carolina and the Senator from New Hampshire and other colleagues. I look forward to coming to the floor and saying that this issue is satisfactorily resolved. Administrator Browner, I believe, is making a good-faith effort, but we have a ways to go before we are certain we don't have to come back and appeal to our colleagues, who are likely experiencing similar things, to give us a change in the law that will give us time to allow these scientific studies to be reviewed, and possibly, this rule revised. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that letters in support for this amendment from the National Governors' Association, the Central Nebraska Mayor's Association, the League of Nebraska Municipalities, the city of Columbus, the city of Hastings, the village of Snyder, and the village of Fairmont be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I am prepared to yield back the remainder of my time. I do not know if--Senator Chafee is probably not going to speak because I told him we would withdraw the amendment. 
I say to the Senator from New Hampshire, if you don't want to take the additional 10 minutes, I will ask unanimous consent to withdraw the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Do we need to yield back time in opposition? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I ask unanimous consent that the amendment offered by myself and Senator Hagel be withdrawn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent I be permitted to speak as in morning business until 11 o'clock. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, the issue of Social Security has been given a new bit of attention this week. Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire and Senator John Breaux of Louisiana announced their intent to introduce legislation that effectively takes the recommendations of a year-long study and recommends a number of changes. 
I like their proposal, Madam President. Senator Moynihan and I earlier introduced legislation that proceeds along similar lines. Senator Gramm and Senator Domenici are working on their own proposal. The President has suggested that we have a year-long discussion of Social Security and that sometime in the latter part of this year/first of next, he will call the congressional leadership in and we will try to solve this problem in 1999. That will be very difficult to do unless these discussions are conducted in an environment where we make a real effort to educate the American people about what Social Security is and what Social Security isn't. 
There was a recent Town Hall meeting on Social Security in Providence, RI. I attended the first meeting in Kansas City, MO. Indeed, the President was at Georgetown when he kicked this whole thing off earlier this year. When he was introduced at Georgetown, a woman who is a student at Georgetown did something quite interesting and quite common in the Social Security debate. She said when she took her first job, she noted on her paycheck that there was a person called FICA. She went home to her mother and said, `Mom, who is this FICA person, and why are they taking so much money from me?' She had discovered the payroll tax, which is the largest tax burden on working Americans today. 
I note that there is growing interest in using the surplus, that we have to use it to do some kind of a tax cut. I intend to argue that if taxes are going to be cut, it ought to be the payroll tax that gets cut. FICA is the largest tax for nearly 70 percent of Americans. The median family in Nebraska will pay twice as much in FICA taxes--in payroll taxes--as in income tax. 
As this young Georgetown woman went on to say, her mother told her that FICA is a payment she is making into Social Security that she will get back out when she retires. And she hopes, she said to the President, that their discussion will lead to the protection of the money she has paid in over the years. Relevant to the discussion of Social Security, one of the things I hope the President and the Vice President will do when they are having a discussion of Social Security--is to allow workers to have just that--the ability to use a portion of their payroll taxes to create wealth for retirement. 
You hear other people describe Social Security as a program with a poor rate of return. As I said, I did not go to the Providence discussion, but I sent staff to it and they reported back that numerous people expressed the view that Social Security is a savings program, that individuals are making a contribution into it, and all they are getting back is what they paid in. 
It is not a savings program. You own nothing with Social Security. Social Security is a payroll tax, and it is a tax that is imposed upon people who are working. The proceeds of that tax come to the Federal Government, and are distributed to people who are eligible, based on virtue of meeting the test of age, disability, or survivorship of a person entitled to Social Security benefits. For retirees, there is an early eligibility age of 62, and there is a normal eligibility age of 65. There are also many people who actually choose to take a later eligibility of 70, where they can get a higher level of benefits. 
This is very important. As the President goes forward with the discussion on Social Security, he is the principal leader in this regard. He has the bully pulpit. I praised him before and I praise him again for taking this issue on. It is an extremely important program and has benefited Americans enormously. It has changed the face of this country. It is a moral commitment that we make. But, it is not a rate of return program. 
I urge the President and the Vice President, when they are leading these discussions, if there is any confusion, to say to Americans that this program is an intergenerational commitment. By maintaining the current program, those of us who are working allow ourselves to be taxed at a fixed rate, and to let the proceeds be transferred in a very progressive fashion. As I mentioned earlier, we let the proceeds be distributed to people who are eligible, based on virtue of meeting the test of age, disability, or survivorship of a person entitled to Social Security benefits. 
If the American people don't understand that, we need to inform them--especially retirees. If people over the age of 65 believe that all they are getting back is a monthly check that is based upon what they contributed, this debate will reach a dead end. I have heard many, many elected politicians essentially pander to the audience and lead the audience to believe all they are getting back is what they paid in. They let them believe that it is their Social Security--they paid it into it all their lives. In reality, it is a tax on people who are working. That young woman who introduced the President had it half right. There is a 12.4 percent tax on wages, which is transferred to people who are eligible. 
If anybody right now is struggling under the burden of Social Security, it is people who get paid by the hour, particularly low income people--people who earn their living as a consequence of their work and the wages paid to them. For example, in 1996, the median household income was $35,492. A family earning that amount and taking standard deductions and exemptions, paid $2,719 in federal income taxes, but lost $5,430 in income to the federal payroll tax. What we need to be doing is giving some of this payroll tax money back to these families so they can participate in the growth of the American economy--so that they can accumulate wealth for their retirements. Since 1983, the payroll tax has been higher than necessary to pay current benefits. 
I come to the floor today to praise Senator Gregg and Senator Breaux for their proposal, for their courage, in introducing this piece of Social Security reform legislation. Most importantly, I come to the floor to urge President Clinton and to urge Vice President Gore, when they are having these discussions, to describe this program honesty. Describe it as it is. Don't allow individuals, especially people over the age of 65, to presume that all they are getting is a monthly check that represents what they paid in over the course of their working lives. It is a tax, transferred in a progressive fashion, to people who are eligible. 
Furthermore, don't allow the notion to lie on the table that the age of 65 is a retirement age. It is not a retirement age--people can retire at any age they choose. Sixty-five is an eligibility age. There is an early eligibility. There is a normal eligibility. There is a late eligibility. 
One of the most frustrating things that I suspect Senator Gregg and Senator Breaux face, is people saying, `Senator, you are trying to move the retirement age.' It is eligibility, not retirement. There are many people who retire early, they retire later, and as a consequence their benefit levels will be adjusted. They understand these adjustments, and as a consequence they make choices based on it. 
I hope this debate will continue, but unless it continues in an honest fashion, with the program being understood for what it is, it will hit a dead end. This is a very easy program to demagogue. It is a very easy program to misrepresent. There is a large percentage of people who do not understand what this program is. Unless we increase the number of people who do understand what the program is and decrease the percentage of people who misunderstand it, it is likely this entire year's discussion will lead to nothing more than political warfare with people misrepresenting the program in order to achieve political advantage. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am offering this amendment together with my colleague from Nebraska, Senator Hagel, to delay implementation of a rule that has been promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency. This delay would be required until the agents review existing scientific data to determine whether there is ample evidence to support the rule. 
Mr. President, this rule, together with the rule on lead, is there to protect Americans, to give us safe drinking water. Unlike lead, however, copper is an essential element and is regulated in a much different fashion. I intend with my statement to lay before the body an appeal. 
Nebraska has an unusual situation. Perhaps other States do have a similar situation. But ours is essentially this: The Environmental Protection Agency has a limit with their rule of 1.3 milligrams per liter. There isn't a single city in Nebraska that has 1.3 milligrams per liter. Here is the problem. In some communities, the water level is sufficiently acidic if it remains in the pipes for 6 hours or longer. When you turn the water on, you will get more than 1.3 milligrams per liter. Run the water for a minute, and the water drops below 1.3 milligrams per liter. 
The EPA is saying, it does not matter. The EPA is saying, `We test the water. It comes out of the pipe immediately. It is over 1.3 milligrams; therefore, you have to make investments, substantial investments.' 
Hastings, NE, is having to invest about $1 million initially, and $250,000 per year. Sixty communities are being asked to make substantial investments in their water systems to remove copper from their water, even though not a single citizen in Nebraska is getting sick--not a single person. I emphasize this. 
The EPA comes into Nebraska and says, `You are right, Senator, nobody is getting sick.' I say, `Wait a minute, what is the Safe Drinking Water Act for?' They say, `Well, it is to make the water safe.' I say, `The water is safe, is it not? If somebody was getting sick, then we would have unsafe water.' They say, `Yes, that is right. But we have established 1.3 milligrams per liter as the level allowed.' And even though there is not a single community with 1.3 milligrams per liter--if it sets in the pipe 6 hours--even though it is flushed out immediately, and even though the State public health people are willing to implement a program of public education to make sure they stay below 1.3 milligrams, the EPA says, `It doesn't matter.' 
Unfortunately, Mr. President, this has become one of those litmus test issues. I have talked to many people in the environmental community. And they have said to me, `Gee, Senator, you can't put this on this bill because it is another rider.' They compare it to the 1995 bill--I guess it was 1995 or 1996--the year when a lot of riders were attached. `We don't want another rider.' I said, `Well, what does that have to do with anything? Do you think the public health data supports what you are trying to do in Nebraska? Is there a reason?' They say, `No, it doesn't matter. What we are talking about here, Senator,' they say, `is politics. We don't disagree with the public health aspect of this.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, copper is a substance that at certain levels will cause gastrointestinal problems. That is the issue here. Unlike lead, it is a different sort of public health problem. Again, it is an essential element. Understand, that the estimated content in mother's milk in some cases will exceed 1.35--will exceed 1.3 milligrams per liter. You can imagine what the EPA would say if we gave them the authority to regulate mother's milk. Perhaps they would require some sort of contraption to be applied in order to make certain that babies are not getting a dose in excess of 1.3 milligrams, even though no scientific study, Mr. President, has concluded that there is a problem. 
The EPA will say, remarkably, `Well, the World Health Organization has a standard of 2.0 milligrams per liter, and 1.3 milligrams per liter is close.' Two is almost twice of 1.3. It may look close if you are calculating the size of the deficit, but it is not very close as a multiple of 1.3. 
They set a level, Mr. President, an arbitrary level, that cannot be supported by science. All we are asking for is delay. I would be willing to accept some change in the law, some report language that would enable Nebraska to say, `We will, with our public health effort, make certain that no one in Nebraska is going to get sick. But, for gosh sakes, don't make these Nebraska communities invest millions of dollars in water treatment efforts.' 
Some of these communities have very, very small budgets. You are asking them to invest substantial amounts of money even though there isn't a single person in their communities getting sick--no one. There is no public health problem. And what we are being told--we tried to get this amendment accepted. We tried to get EPA to change their rule. They said to us, `We don't care. We don't care, Senator, that science demonstrates that 1.3 milligrams is not really supportable. We don't care that nobody in Nebraska is getting sick. We are not concerned.' `Please, do not offer this because of the political problems of another rider on this bill.' 
Mr. President, this is one of the reasons that people like myself--that have supported the Clean Water Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Clean Air Act--we struggle to sustain our support for this kind of effort because time and time again we find ourselves faced with a situation where common sense and science combine to say the EPA should not be given authority to require local communities to make these kinds of investments because there is no public health case that can be made to require them to do it. 
This amendment, Mr. President, is propublic health and pro-environment. I, too, seek public health protections, and I seek environmental protections as well. Senator Hagel and I see this as an amendment that says that money spent on threats that do not exist is money that cannot be spent to prevent actual hazards to health or the environment. 
I am not seeking to overturn EPA regulations, and I am not seeking to instruct EPA on scientific issues on which myself and the legislative branch are not qualified to provide instructions. I am seeking, Mr. President, to have the EPA give adequate consideration, evidence from another Federal agency that is amply qualified in this respect, an agency, Mr. President, that is charged with ensuring public health and safety, and that is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Mr. President, whatever you think on this issue, we should all agree that the people of this country who are drinking the water and who are paying the bills should at least have a say in this matter. And they should have a say through their elected officials. The argument that comes from the EPA that Congress does not have the right or the responsibility to question regulations or to weigh in on regulatory debates is an argument that government should not be held accountable to the people. 
Mr. President, that is an argument that I do not support. And it is an argument I hope we would all dismiss outright. But, Mr. President, beyond this argument--and there is a truly valid argument against that scientific basis for this EPA rule which I, tonight on this floor, challenge with this amendment. I challenge any of my colleagues to come to the floor and dispute the evidence that I offer. 
The rule pertains to copper levels in drinking water, and the requirement that communities treat their water supplies to remove copper when it is present at levels higher than EPA's `action level' of 1.3 milligrams per liter (mg/l). There are currently 60 communities in Nebraska that are being required by EPA to begin treating their water to remove copper. I have here in my hand two studies conducted by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that indicate the drinking water in these communities is safe, and is not causing any illness or adverse health effects. One of the studies was conducted in my state of Nebraska. However, the EPA will not consider these studies until they are peer reviewed and published. Fair enough, I say--they are scheduled to be published before the end of the calendar year, and likely sooner than that. So my amendment simply states that EPA wait until these studies are published, and that they review these studies, and any additional peer-reviewed data pertinent to this issue, to determine whether the CDC is correct, and perhaps this copper action level is not set at the appropriate level. 
There is also a savings clause in my amendment that will allow any state that so chooses to continue to implement and enforce, if they desire, the copper treatment aspect of this rule. If a community or a state is currently treating its water supplies to reduce copper, or chooses to implement treatments based on copper levels, nothing in my amendment precludes them from doing so. 
Mr. President, I support fully the efforts and the importance of the mission and the work of the Environmental Protection Agency. I support fully the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and all the other acts under whose auspices the authorities of the EPA lie. However, I support these Acts based on the assumption that all the rules and regulations that are promulgated by the agency are based on sound science. But in this case--in the case of a copper action level in drinking water supplies--we do not have sound science at work. What we are seeing here is a level that has been set that cannot be supported by science--a level that even the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, EPA's sister agency, says in at least two different studies causes neither illness nor adverse health effects. The CDC has indicated that in my home state of Nebraska, and in Delaware, copper in drinking water supplies that is in excess of EPA's action level does not cause any illness or adverse health effects. 
But 60 small- and medium-sized communities in Nebraska are being forced to implement expensive water treatment activities to remove the copper from their drinking water. One community alone, Hastings, Nebraska, with a population of 23,000, has estimated the costs of this treatment at $1 million to start, and $250,000 annually thereafter. That is for one community alone. In the Village of Snyder, which has a population of 280, and an annual water budget of $31,000, the estimated cost to treat two wells is $30,000 for building modifications and equipment purchases, plus an additional annual cost of $12,000 for chemicals, training, administrative, and repair and maintenance costs. For the first year, then, this figure represents $11,000 more than the Village of Snyder's annual water budget--or a total first year cost of $42,000. Multiply these figures and these hardships by 60 communities, we are talking about an inordinate amount of money to remove an essential mineral, a naturally occurring element, from drinking water when there are no known or associated adverse health effects at the levels that it is present at. 
But that's not the most unreasonable aspect of this issue, Mr. President--because there is more. Here's the rub. The ground water that these public water supplies rely on for drinking water in these 64 Nebraska communities does NOT contain copper in excess of EPA's action level. As a matter of fact, none of the natural groundwater supplies in Nebraska exceed the copper action level as established by EPA. Not one. 
The problem is the method EPA requires that States use when testing for copper. EPA requires that the water be tested only after being undisturbed for at least 6 hours--that is, the water must be sitting in the pipes and plumbing of a home for at least 6 hours, or overnight, before being tested. And while the water sits in these pipes, copper leaches out of the pipes, and the `action level' is exceeded. Why does this happen? It so happens that the acidity of the ground water in my state of Nebraska causes the copper to corrode, or to leach out when it sits in pipes for a long period of time, such as overnight. However, if you run this water for a few minutes before testing it, or before drinking it, the copper action level set by EPA are not exceeded. 
But even the CDC has questioned this testing method. In one of its studies, the CDC states:  
We encourage further investigations of the health effects of copper in drinking water. We also encourage further work to evaluate the reproducibility of the sampling method recommended by EPA to establish compliance with the drinking water standard for Cu (copper) and Pb (lead). 
But even beyond that, even at the levels that are coming out of these pipes now, and that the people of these Nebraska communities are drinking now, there is no incidence of illness or other deleterious effects from this water. My amendment will simply delay some costly requirements to remove copper from water that is not causing illness. 
So the issue immediately at hand, at best I or anyone else can discern, is really an issue of testing. Despite the fact that none of the groundwater in Nebraska exceeds EPA's copper action level, the manner of testing required by EPA results in some communities actually exceeding the action level. Flushing for a few minutes prior to testing, or to drinking, would result in copper levels in the water that are below EPA's action level. And it is likely that an improved testing methodology will result in none of these water systems exceeding the copper rule. But until this is reviewed, we have no way of knowing. 
Beyond the testing issue is the greater issue of the validity of the rule. No, I am not a scientist qualified to decide this issue, but some of the scientists that I have talked to about the issue agree that the science is insufficient to support EPA's action level for copper. Even government scientists who have studied copper their entire careers agree that the evidence just isn't there--and I'm talking about human nutrition scientists, not just the scientists who conducted the studies at the CDC. Scientists have told me that there is little evidence of chronic health effects caused by ingestion of copper at the levels we are talking about in our communities. There is even preliminary evidence that seems to suggest that elevated copper plays a role in reducing or preventing the incidence 
of osteoporosis, a disease which causes significant suffering, discomfort and associated medical problems, primarily in the elderly. What this underscores is the lack of definitive knowledge about this substance. 
My colleagues in the State of Nebraska have tried to work with the EPA on this, and have tried to offer reasonable alternatives and solutions that will prevent costly and needless treatments from being required. My colleagues in Nebraska asked the EPA if it would be acceptable to implement an educational program to get folks in these communities to run the water for a time, to flush out the water that may have absorbed some copper, before drinking it. EPA said no. 
My colleagues asked the federal Centers for Disease Control to study the issue in the state, and determine if the copper was causing any illness or adverse health effects. The CDC did this, and found no adverse health effects. EPA's response is that they cannot consider this data because it is not yet peer-reviewed and published. That is what bring me here now. 
What frustrates me most about this is that I am a staunch proponent of the role of the federal government in protecting the safety and health of the people. This role is perhaps one of the greatest issues separating our country from many other industrialized and non-industrialized countries--we protect our nation from potential hazards in our food and drink, and from many other hazards that may befall us. But I am also a proponent of a government that is of, by, and for the people--of a government that serves to protect when protection is needed, but that does not intervene needlessly when intervention is not needed. Yet here we have evidence that a regulation promulgated by a federal agency will cost Nebraska communities millions of dollars, and will have no apparent impact on the health or safety of the people. So I am here to ask for a delay before costly treatment is required in these communities, a delay to allow these studies to be published, which they imminently will be, and a review of the data, to include these studies. 
To help my colleagues understand how deeply flawed this action level may be, and thus, how inappropriate is the insistence of the EPA that these small Nebraska communities spend millions of dollars to correct a ghost problem, let me share with you some additional information on how copper in drinking water is treated elsewhere. 
On an international scale, the World Health Organization, or WHO, which is recognized worldwide as the preeminent public health and welfare agency in both developed and underdeveloped nations, has declared that: 
In view of uncertainties regarding copper toxicity in humans, a provisional guideline value for copper of 2 mg/litre was established in the 1993 WHO guidelines for drinking water quality. 
The WHO further states that: 
A copper action level of 2 mg/litre in drinking water will be protective of adverse effects of copper and provides an adequate margin of safety. It is also noteworthy that copper is an essential element. 
This provisional, international action level for copper of 2 mg/l is set at a level that approaches twice EPA's action level of 1.3 mg/l. Yet EPA cites this level as evidence that their level is `not far off' from the WHO level, and thus is supportive of their 1.3 mg/l level. 
Mr. President, there are two last, astounding pieces of information. The National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences has established a recommended daily allowance for copper of 3 mg, with an adult toxic dose of 100 mg. These recommendations are for adults. But more astounding is the following information, published in peer reviewed literature: `Copper levels of human milk range from 0.15 to 1.34 mg./litre.' Human breast milk, Mr. President, contains up to 1.34 mg/litre of copper, which is in exceedance of the EPA copper action level. 
There is much more evidence to support my contention, Mr. President, that there is cause to review the data and perhaps revise EPA's action level for copper, and I am more than willing to share it with my colleagues. At the moment, however, there is great urgency in offering this amendment and approving it to prevent needless costly treatments from being implemented in many small American communities that will be more harmed from the economic impacts of this rule than from the potential adverse health effects from copper. 
The EPA says, `We don't care'--the EPA says, `We don't care. This is a political issue.' 
I say wait a minute, what is the purpose here? `We don't care.' Reject it out of hand, ignore the scientific evidence, and say we are concerned that this is one of these riders. They are not willing to come and debate each rider on its merit. They say `rider'; we rule out of hand. 
I would love to have Administrator Browning come to Hastings, NB, and explain that to my citizens in Nebraska. She would not be able to do it. That is what I have to do. I have to go home and explain these rules. When I go home and explain these rule to these 60 communities where nobody is getting sick, why they have to spend millions of dollars to invest in their water systems, they say this doesn't make any sense at all. 
So I invite any Senator who opposes--I would love, if they take the EPA position--come out to Hastings, NB. Come out to my State and talk to the community and explain to them why, if nobody is getting sick, I have two CDC studies saying there is no health problem and yet the rule still is going to be enforced. 
As I said earlier, I am not looking to overturn the EPA regulation. Indeed, in this amendment there is a savings clause that allows any State that so chooses to continue to implement and enforce the copper treatment aspect of the rule. If the communities--or State, is currently treating its water supplies to reduce copper, or chooses to implement treatments based on copper levels, nothing in my amendment precludes them from doing so. 
I see both the Senator from Montana and the Senator from Alabama. It looks like they have an amendment. I would like to talk longer, and I apologize to the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland. I know both they and I would like to go to sleep. I would prefer a healthier debate. Unfortunately, what will happen is, we will talk tomorrow, we will have 2 minutes equally divided, the opponents will offer some reason to oppose this amendment, and everybody is likely to walk down and oppose it. 
What will happen is, I will have millions of dollars' worth of investments that will have to occur and there will be a deterioration of support for any regulation of this kind. 
I am willing to stop and allow the Senators from Montana and Alabama to offer their amendment. I don't know how long they will take. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I guess--as I said, I am willing--I don't know how long the Senator from Montana and Alabama want to talk. I intend to talk further. I appreciate what will happen tomorrow is, there will be 2 minutes equally divided and Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus will come down 
here and they will say, `We don't necessarily disagree with you but we have a letter from the EPA and they are saying for rules'--blah, blah, blah--`we don't care that there is no public health problem. We don't care that nobody is getting sick, and we are willing to be flexible.' 
Well, I appreciate you are willing to be flexible, but the problem is, we don't have a public health problem. What are you talking about, you want to be flexible? Thank you, Mr. Perciasepe. I appreciate you being willing to visit these communities, but I have 60 communities you are asking to spend millions of dollars. You have a rule that you are going to enforce it even though there is no public health problem. 
I know we have a dilemma here. It is 10:30 at night and the unanimous consent procedure requires me to talk for however long I am prepared to talk, and then we will have 2 minutes tomorrow. I will have 1 minute, Senators Chafee and Baucus will come down here and they will say whatever, and this thing will get knocked out. 
Mr. President, I appeal to my colleagues, this is not something that is a small item. Nobody is going to walk down here. I suspect the Senator from Missouri will not stand up and say that there is a compelling public health reason why Nebraska citizens and their communities should have to make these investments. EPA doesn't. They don't make a case that it is a public health problem. They don't come to Nebraska and say, gee, there is somebody getting sick that we haven't noticed. 
Copper is different from lead. We are not talking about something that has the dangerous properties of lead. This is an essential element. This is an element that is contained in mother's milk, for gosh sakes. And in some cases the mother's milk is at a level higher than what the EPA will allow in drinking water. 
Nebraska is being forced to sue the Environmental Protection Agency because the Environmental Protection Agency is unwilling to be flexible. I seek a remedy to this, Senators. You are saying you don't accept the amendment, fine. I am prepared to talk, then, further, because I want to make certain that Nebraskans understand what is at stake here--that even though nobody is getting sick, even though there is no public health problem, even though there is no safety issue at all in our State, it doesn't matter; the Federal Government is still going to require and this Senate is going to say, `Well, it is a rider, we will accept the EPA's recommendation, regardless. We will vote to table or we will vote no on the amendment, we don't care. It doesn't matter.' 
It seems to me that what we have here is a reasonable request by a State that has an unusual situation that deserves to be remedied. It is not enough for the EPA to say,'We are willing to be flexible.' It doesn't work. Their flexibility still, at the end of the day, will say, `You will have to get your copper levels down to 1.3 milligrams per liter in the first burst of water that comes out of the faucet,' even though nobody in Nebraska is getting sick, even though no faucet is at 1.3 milligrams per liter. Only the first burst has the problem. 
I go back to my statement here and continue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I appreciate what you are trying to do, but I am not sure I understand what it is you are trying to do. 
First of all, I ask the Senator from Montana, how long does he and the Senator from Alabama want to take? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will yield only for that purpose, without losing my right to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, do I have the floor? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-10-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, in that case, I would like to continue with my statement. Again, I don't mean to tie up the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland here unreasonably, I appreciate that I am, but this is a very serious issue in my State. We have a UC here that gives me very limited options. The unanimous consent puts me in a position where I have 1 minute tomorrow, and the authorizers are going to come down here and they are going to merely say, `we object.' They are not going to offer any science, or refute the scientific evaluation, or argue what the CDC has said. They are not going to present a case that 1.3 milligrams is reasonable. They are not going to refute statements about nobody getting sick in Nebraska, or they are not going to say what EPA is doing is reasonable. 
We are left with a situation where the State of Nebraska is going to have to sue the EPA. That is what we are left with. Again, I am willing to step aside here and allow the Senator from Alabama and the Senator from Montana to do their work. I guess what you are seeking is an opportunity to go into morning business so you could all leave and I can stay here and talk. Is that basically what you are saying? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-11-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am perfectly willing to make an effort to accommodate. Unfortunately, I am in a situation where I don't feel like I am going to get much accommodation from the Senators in communities that are going to spend millions of dollars to invest in something that is going to produce no improvement in public health. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-12-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Well, my hope is that by listening to these wonderful arguments, there is going to be persuasion. You are saying that you want to move to table my amendment and leave and go into morning business, and then I will have 2 minutes tomorrow to persuade a majority of my colleagues, which is not going to happen. There is going to be no persuasion. Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus will come down with 30 seconds each and they are going to say no, and they are not going to offer any arguments at all. They are not going to read anything into the Record or consider any arguments given. I appreciate that things get scheduled and bumped up against a late hour.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-13-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Are you basically saying you want to move to table my amendment and then walk out? Is that it? You will leave and we will say we are in morning business; is that the offer? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-14-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Well---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-15-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is my hope. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-16-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am sort of teetering on the edge of how reasonable I want to be. I am appealing to colleagues. I have 70 communities in Nebraska that are facing substantial costs. There is no argument against this, other than that EPA opposes it. I don't hear any scientific argument against it or any public health argument against it. Earlier today, by a voice vote, the Senator from Arkansas and the Senator from Mississippi accepted a $500 million amendment to indemnify farmers in disaster aid--just like that--and it was accepted on a voice vote. 
Here we are being told, no, we can't accept this amendment. EPA isn't saying we disagree with the science, or we disagree that it is an unreasonable rule in the case of Nebraska, or we disagree with any argument you offer; we are just going to enforce it. I say to the Senator from Missouri--and as you know, I am preaching to the choir here. The Senator from Missouri has faced this sort of thing in the past in Missouri as a Governor and as a Senator. 
I am seeking some sort of remedy other than merely voting this amendment down. Had this occurred earlier in the day, my colleague, Senator Hagel, would be on the floor with me, arguing with much passion in favor of this amendment, that it is reasonable, and that science supports what we are trying to do. 
Again, I say to the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland, I know it is 10:45, and I would rather not be here either, but that is the hand I have been dealt. If it were earlier in the day, there would be more debate on this. I would love to have Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus come and tell me why this rule should be enforced, tell me why what I am offering, with a savings clause that enables any State that wants to, to continue to enforce 1.3 milligrams per liter--allow them to continue to do that--is not a reasonable thing. Or some other alternative, or some language that would enable Nebraska to engage in a public health effort. Let us spend the money per year to engage in a public health effort to make certain that these communities are keeping their drinking water levels safe. 
I am just appealing to my colleagues to look for an alternative. You all have the votes and you have the way to knock this thing out. But there must be some way to give me some assistance with the EPA other than to say they are going to give me flexibility. You know what their idea of flexibility is at the end of the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-17-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I would accept report language that would say the State of Nebraska would be allowed to make a public health investment in those communities where there is in excess of 1.3 milligrams that first minute. I would allow Nebraska to be permitted to experiment with the different testing methodology--anything that would give me something that would say to the communities in Nebraska that the Federal Government is prepared to be reasonable, other than just surrendering me to the good wishes of the EPA, saying they are willing to come out and be flexible. We all know what that means. I would be willing, I say to my colleagues, to accept report language and not put this amendment up for a vote--accept report language that made an attempt to rectify this situation. You know what we are dealing with. I see heads shaking there. Are you saying no? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-18-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I appreciate that. I didn't know at 8 o'clock this morning that we were going to be taking this thing up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-19-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I would agree to in some sort of consent agreement. I don't want to surrender the floor and then end up with my amendment tabled with no capacity to appeal for some sort of flexibility in law or report language that would enable me to satisfy the concerns that I have. I think what you are asking for is reasonable. I would be willing to talk to Senator Chafee, Senator Baucus, and Administrative Browner, and see if they would accept some kind of report language that would do precisely what you are saying. 
I would say to the Senator from Missouri that I would be willing to go right this minute to the cloakroom and make those calls. But I would like to resolve it without having my amendment tabled, because I know I am going to have to bring a report back to you and say what they said and see if you would agree with it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-20-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I appreciate that. The Senator from Missouri knows that a couple of years ago we did the very same thing with the radon rule the EPA had and the Senator from Missouri cooperated. We knew what the impact was going to be, and we delayed or withheld the money from EPA to enforce a radon rule that we all knew was unreasonable. We did that because they could not make a scientific case that the rule that they had was going to increase public health. We withheld their money. As I recall, the Senator from Missouri supported that. 
I appreciate what you are saying. I understand I am pushing here to a point where you are saying that if I continue doing this I am going to get less than I would likely get by trying to work cooperatively. I regret that at 11 o'clock at night that I am in that position. I am prepared to call Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus to ask them. I am prepared to talk to them to see if there is some flexibility to achieve it either in report language or in some fashion. 
But I appeal to my colleagues. The flexibility offered by the EPA, as you know, is not sufficient. They have the law on their side. They are going to enforce 1.3 milligrams per liter. They are not going to give us any testing flexibility. They are going to force 1.3 milligrams per liter even though nobody is getting sick. I have communities investing enormous amounts of money. Again, you are hearing this for the seventh or eighth time, this argument. 
Again, I would be willing to allow this thing to come to a painful close. The Senators are saying if I talk to Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus that they are willing to consider some sort of report language and this thing will move in committee if I can get some report language.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-21-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. But not on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-22-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. In conference, you would be willing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-23-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. First of all, let me say that I appreciate the good-faith effort to try to accommodate this. I know that both the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland are in a bind. You were facing the situation in your State before. And I know it has been frustrating. I have spoken with both of you about these kinds of regulations and how they can decrease our citizen support for environmental regulations. 
I have all week long been approached by environmental organizations begging me not to offer this amendment, and not a single one of them, by the way, being able to offer a single shred of evidence as to why this rule ought to be enforced--not a one of them--just saying, `for political reasons, we would rather the Senator not offer it.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-24-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I would be willing to do a UC and let the Senators from Montana and Alabama go to theirs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-25-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I don't object to that. I just want to make it clear that I have a sufficient amount of trust in both the Senator from Maryland and the Senator from Missouri that I would be willing to allow the Senators from Alabama and Montana to offer their amendments. I am not even that concerned about that. The problem is--I know I need to talk to both of you to try to get something and, when I talk to Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus, that I have instructions as to what it is I am trying to do. 
Do we need to go into a quorum call? I would be prepared to let them go ahead, just as long as I get back to this thing when they are finished. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-26-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-27-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I have spoken to the managers of this bill, the distinguished Senator from Missouri and the distinguished Senator from Maryland. I appreciate, very much, their cooperation. I understand why they have to oppose this amendment. I know that they have experienced very frustrating situations themselves with regulations that are being imposed with no benefit attached. 
What I would propose to do, and I would like to ask the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland just to engage me in a little bit of colloquy on this, I would be prepared to withdraw this amendment and to work with the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland as well as the Senator from Rhode Island and the Senator from Montana, the ranking members of the Environment and Public Works Committee, and with Administrator Browner of the EPA, to see if some kind of report language could be included in the conference that would allow us to apply some common sense to the implementation of this rule without sacrificing the public health objective, which is all that I want to accomplish. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-28-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I sincerely thank the Senator from Missouri and I thank the Senator from Maryland. I know the hour is late. I regret that I am in the Chamber dragging you beyond what is a reasonable hour. 
I appreciate very much your willingness to try to work with both Senator Hagel and I, and I will assure you that I will talk to the chairman and ranking member, Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus, to try to come up with some report language that will satisfy EPA. 
One of the reasons we are here today is the flexibility offering that the EPA made to the Department of Environmental Control in the State of Nebraska was so insufficient the State attorney general has filed a lawsuit against EPA as a consequence. So we have reached this extreme situation, and I am very grateful for the willingness of both Senators to cooperate. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment I sent to the desk earlier be withdrawn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the financial crisis growing in our rural economy and to send an amendment to the desk. 
Nebraska's farmers and farm communities are confronting a series of events--most of them completely out of their control--that will lead most of them to lose money this year and may drive a fair share out of business. I have been meeting with groups of farmers for as long as I have been in the Senate, and the message I hear resounding across Nebraska is that the situation is very grim. 
This is a clear case of a situation in which families won't have a shot at the American dream if we don't put the law on their side. 
These events are a good reminder of why agriculture is such a precarious business to be in. Farmers are entrepreneurs who operate small businesses that manufacture their product outdoors. And on top of the always risky proposition of dealing with mother nature, this year our farmers are dealing with grain and livestock prices at their lowest levels in more than a decade, land rental prices that have increased by an average of 37%, a cost of living--particularly for health insurance--that keeps going up, even when commodity prices keep falling, and a rail transportation problem that will almost certainly leave record bushels of grain on the ground across middle America again this year. 
And I haven't even mentioned the event over which farmers have the least control--the economies of foreign countries. Nebraska sends a third of its agricultural exports to Asia. Or rather, we used to. With more than 60 million people now living on less than a dollar a day in Indonesia, those markets in Asia are gone. 
Many `experts' suggest that the key to a profitable farming operation is diversification. But when every major sector of production agriculture is operating at a loss--from corn to cattle to wheat to hogs--my farmers find that diversification is simply a decision of what to grow that will lose the least. 
What is most troubling to me about the financial crisis in rural America is that it comes at a time of unprecedented economic success for the rest of the country. But make no mistake: trouble in rural America will not stay confined to the farm. When Nebraska farmers lose money, Omaha laborers find themselves with less work and it will happen on a nationwide scale, too. Though less so now than in the past, the United States remains an agriculture-based economy. Agriculture is our only sector that runs a trade surplus. In Nebraska, it accounts for one of every four jobs. 
So I come to the floor today to issue a wake up call to the Senate. It doesn't matter what you call it--a crisis, a disaster, or just plain misfortune--family based agriculture in America is in grave danger. And there is no one who can act to preserve family based agriculture but us. The Secretary of Agriculture cannot do it and the U.S. Trade Representative cannot do it. If we believe in the value of family based agriculture, this Congress must act to preserve it ourselves. 
Under the leadership of Senator Daschle, we 
are bringing a number of amendments to the floor that will help farmers regain a measure of profitability this year. These amendments are reasonable and I believe that the Senate will recognize that they strengthen the existing farm law, rather than weaken it. And I hope that in a spirit of bipartisanship, we can agree that if we add these amendments to the farm bill we can make it work for our farmers. 
I am sending one of those amendments to the desk now. This amendment would try to improve market conditions in the livestock industry by mandating reporting requirements. 
We have price spreads between retail beef prices and the price paid to producers that are at record levels. We all know what happens when the price of crude oil goes down--we pay less for gas at the pump. But although the price of cattle has dropped precipitously, beef is still the same price if not higher at the supermarket. That defies logic and it says to me that something does not work in the cattle market. We have an amendment that would address that. 
This amendment will restore transparency to livestock markets by mandating the price reporting of live cattle and boxed beef. 
The cattle feeding industry is in an extended period of sharply negative feeding margins, with losses of about $100 per head. 
Earlier this year, hog prices sank to a 26-year low. 
But at the same time, consumer prices at the retail level remain unchanged. 
Producers are concerned that there is not enough information to determine fair market prices for livestock, and this price reporting amendment will change that. 
Common sense tells us that complete price information is vital to an efficient market. But the majority of cattle are now sold under secret pricing deals, and those transactions are not recorded in the cash market. 
The lack of transparency in the market creates the potential for exploitation, and we must act to stop that. My democratic colleagues support this approach and I am optimistic that Republicans can support this amendment, as well. 
So I hope that we will come together in a bipartisan way this week and pass these measures to help alleviate the financial crisis occurring in rural America. For we have a great deal at stake here, and it is more than just a partisan quibble over whether or not to make changes in a law. 
At stake is the preservation of family based agriculture and whether or not Congress has the good sense and the courage to step in while there is still time. For all of our sakes, I hope we do. 
Mr. President, this is a very simple amendment that authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct a 3-year pilot program in mandatory price reporting so that we can get a true market in the cattle industry. It has been long debated by the Agriculture Committee. I think most Members have pretty well made up their minds on it. 
I yield to the distinguished Senator from Montana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, while it is true that the packers and many of the processing industry do not like the idea of having to disclose prices and bidding, you would be hard-pressed to find a single rancher or cattle feeder in the United States of America who opposes this amendment. This is a pilot program. It will make the market work better. There are only three packers in America controlling approximately 80 percent of the market today. That is why this amendment is needed. 
I say to colleagues who want the free market to work and like the marketplace, go talk to your feeders. Go talk to the people who are out there ranching right now. They want to know what the prices are in order to get full price discovery so that they are able to know whether or not they are getting the best price for their product. It is true that the packing industry and many processors do not like this requirement. But, as I said, again you would be hard-pressed to find a single feed lot operator or rancher in America who will not support this change in law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, that letter comes on behalf of people who are in the packing industry. I just tell colleagues that if you have ranchers or feed lot operators in your State, they support the change. There is a division in this particular association that comes as a consequence of packers being a part of this association. I don't object to the packers at all. I believe this change will enable them to be profitable. It doesn't shut them down at all. It merely says they have no surprise when they bid on the cattle in the marketplace. 
Mr. COCHRAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I want to say amen to the Senator from Montana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I would like to recognize seventeen outstanding young Nebraska women who have been honored with the Girl Scout Gold Award, the highest achievement award a U.S. Girl Scout can attain. 
The Girl Scout Gold Award symbolizes outstanding accomplishment in leadership, community service, career planning, and personal development. This year's winners completed projects such as creating a multicultural mural at a local school; cleaning, rust-proofing, and painting bathhouses at Two Rivers State Park; and building a large scale doll house that will teach independent living skills to children at the Hattie B. Munroe Center. The Nebraska recipients were honored by the Great Plains Girl Scout Council in Omaha, Nebraska. 
Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., an organization serving over two and a half million girls, has awarded more than 20,000 Girl Scout Gold Awards to Senior Girls Scouts since the inception of the program in 1980. The Gold Award represents the culmination of the achievement of many goals. 
I would today like to honor these Nebraskans for their exceptional efforts in attaining the Gold Award: Megan Rachel Adams, Alyssa Ann Arthur, Gina R. Dowis, Elizabeth Ann Holland, Melody E. Jones, Sara Anne Jones, Kjirsten R. Kellogg, Stefanie Kudera, Tera R. Maeder, Katie Michalski, Stephanie Jane Patton, Kelly Peters, Marie Roscoe, Melissa Jo Scurlock, Elizabeth A. Sigler, Karianne Sis, and Samantha Waterman. I salute them for their significant service to their community and our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980709</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am pleased to support this important measure to keep our agricultural export markets open. 
Beyond the legislation currently under consideration, I am pleased that Congress has begun a serious discussion about the general issue of our sanctions policy. Too often in the past we have been quick to use the blunt instrument of unilateral sanctions without fully evaluating its impact. I believe that when considering sanctions, we in the Congress must take into account not only the likelihood the policy will meet our objectives, but also the effects sanctions will have both domestically and abroad. By acknowledging that our farmers should no longer bear the brunt of our sanctions policy, this legislation is a small but important first step. 
More importantly, those of us from rural states know that a crisis is brewing in rural America and I think it is vitally important that the Senate begin to act to preserve family based agriculture. Exports are down, prices are collapsing, and producer incomes are decreasing at an alarming rate. And somehow, this crisis in rural America is growing at a time when the rest of the country enjoys an unprecedented economic boom. 
Without action, we are about to see another migration from our family farms. If we don't act to preserve this way of life, we are going to alter forever the face of rural America. And I suspect that the agricultural sector we end up with will not be one we like. 
I believe strongly that this Congress should act and will act to preserve family based agriculture. I am pleased that we are taking this first step to support our wheat farmers today and I look forward to the upcoming debate about how best to act to preserve a healthy and prosperous rural economy. 
Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980709</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today in support of S. 1882, the Higher Education Reauthorization Act, which is perhaps the most important piece of legislation Congress will pass this year to ensure that more Americans have a shot at the American Dream. 
This legislation makes important strides both in improving the education students receive within colleges and universities and in increasing access to higher education. 
For example, the bill makes significant improvements in teacher training. It authorizes $300 million for competitive grants to states improve teaching, and it also authorizes $37 million for grants to institutions with teacher education programs working in partnership with school districts in underserved areas in an effort to recruit teachers to communities that are most in need of assistance. 
It also provides support for institutions that serve large numbers of low-income students. In particular it creates a new authorization for tribal colleges, which play an important role in educating students in my state of Nebraska. 
But most importantly, this legislation is important because it opens the doors of higher education to more individuals. It helps more individuals acquire the knowledge and skills that will help them make better lives for themselves and their families. 
Approximately $45 billion in this bill is devoted to postsecondary grants and loans for students. This is wise investment for all Americans because this financial assistance to obtain higher education helps individuals increase their earning power once they graduate. When we increase the income of Americans, we reduce spending and in turn reduce the tax burden on our citizens. 
According to the U.S. Census, college graduates make an average of $600,000 more over their lifetime than do individuals without a college degree. That differential has doubled in the last 15 years. 
An individual with a bachelors degree can expect to earn $1.4 million over the course of a lifetime. With a professional degree, that person can earn over $3 million in a lifetime. 
But currently, on 60% of high school graduates go on to college, and by the time they are 25 years old, only about 25% have a college degree. Many young people have the intellectual ability to succeed in college, but they do not have the financial ability. 
We still have much work to do as we try to figure out how to make higher education more affordable. 
Nationwide we have about 10 million students enrolled in four-year and two-year public colleges and universities. About 83,000 of those students are in school in Nebraska. 
We have about 2.5 million in private institutions--19,000 in Nebraska. About 36% of students nationwide receive some form of Title IV assistance: 22% receive Pell Grants; 22% receive subsidized loans; 10% receive unsubsidized loans; not to mention a smaller percentage who receive PLUS loans, Federal Work Study, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, and Perkins loans. 
In public institutions in Nebraska, the number of Pell grants is about 20,000. The dollar volume is $27.4 million. And the number of loans made to Nebraska students in public institutions is about 40,000. That dollar volume is $137 million. 
This $137 million is a substantial increase over the 1990-91 loan dollar volume, which was $43.5 million. We must figure out how to bring student loan debt under control. 
At the same time, we must remember that Title IV assistance goes to those most in need. 91% of Pell recipients have incomes of $30,000 or less. 65% of all recipients of subsidized loans have incomes of $30,000 or less. 
This bill is a step in the right direction. It increases the authorization for maximum Pell Grants to $5,000 for 1999-2000. But it also calls for more reporting by institutions on college costs. 
Reducing college costs and increasing access to higher education must be a joint effort. I am pleased to be a part of this effort. 
I am also pleased to contribute to this legislation in a number of other ways. The bill includes a Web-based education commission to determine the Federal role in helping parents, students, and teachers identify high-quality educational software. 
With Senator Wellstone and others, I encouraged the expansion of distance-learning opportunities through the Learn Anytime Anywhere partnerships. 
We must also continue to stress the need for substantive partnerships between higher education institutions, K-12 institutions, and business communities. 
Mr. President, I urge the Senate to pass S. 1882 so that all Americans will have a shot at achieving the American Dream. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am prepared to proceed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. One of the things I want to do, and I will be pleased to step aside for 10 minutes, I want to engage in a short colloquy with the distinguished Senator from New York on this bill. I will try to be as brief as possible and then yield back to the Senator. I have a longer statement I will make on this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Chair, and I thank the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire. One of the things the Senator from New York has referenced--and I will later in my remarks praise both he and the chairman of this committee for what they have done in bringing this legislation to the floor--one of the things the Senator referenced in his comments was the 1986 Tax Reform Act. Indeed, this bill, it should be noted by colleagues, amends that act. So this would be the, I guess, the 65th tax bill we have passed since 1986. 
I wonder if the Senator from New York can engage briefly in a discussion for the benefit of the Senator from New Hampshire and for those who happen to be watching this debate. One of the things that we struggle to do as citizens is to understand what it is that the government is doing and why. 
Under our constitutional authorities as a Congress we have a whole range of things we are charged with doing. One of the most difficult things we are charged with doing, once we have decided we are going to have a government of any kind at all, is we have to collect taxes and what to use those taxes for and we then have to decide who is going to pay the taxes, and we write the law accordingly. We then distribute the money to the various agencies of government that we previously created. 
I wonder if the Senator from New York, with his understanding of the rest of the world, can talk a little bit about how much we take for granted our capacity to voluntarily collect. We have a voluntary system of tax collection, unlike many other nations on Earth. 
I know right now one of the most difficult problems, for example, that the newly democratic Russia is facing is their capacity to collect tax revenues in sometimes a not-so-voluntary fashion. 
I wonder if the Senator can talk a little bit about the constitutional issues of us raising the taxes to pay for the government and the importance of our being able to maintain a voluntary system of tax collection.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Senator for delaying his exit from the floor. I appreciate very much that reference. 
Mr. President, I believe this piece of legislation goes to the heart of our capacity to maintain government of, by and for the people. Our republican form of government is at risk if people feel they are not getting a fair shake with this voluntary system of collection. 
Congressman Portman and I cochaired this restructuring commission. We noted U.S. tax collection is the most efficient in the world. Less than half of a percent of the total revenues collected is in cost. In the face of mounting criticism, problems, it seems to me it is very important to make certain that as we write the laws that will determine how this money is collected, that we not throw the proverbial baby out with the bathwater. We have problems, and this legislation attempts to correct the problems. But underneath these problems is a relatively efficient system of collecting taxes that enables the citizens to fund their Government, and in a relatively efficient fashion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I also rise in support of the conference report, the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998. I would like to begin my comments with high praise for the Chairman of the Finance Committee, both for calling the hearings last fall and again this year, and for his efforts every step of the way to make certain that this was a responsible bill, a balanced bill, and a bill that reflected the high values of the American people. 
I appreciate very much his leadership, as well as the ranking member of the Finance Committee, Senator Moynihan. The chairman, I think conducted the hearings in a very responsible way and in a way that enabled the American people to see that the laws governing the IRS were in urgent need of changing. It simply would not have happened without Senator Roth's diligence and willingness to bring to the American people's attention many of the problems that they saw last fall and again this year. 
Mr. President, representative democracy is a very difficult system. We all know it. We all view it to be the best. With all of its faults, it still is the best system around. But it is a difficult system, because the people themselves have to decide what they want their laws to be. We, as their representatives, have to reflect their wishes and desires. But at the end of the day, you have to write a law and decide which words they ought to be. What goes into those laws very often is an attempt to resolve conflicts. 
This piece of legislation I believe is in an area of government that in many ways is the most difficult of all. I would put law enforcement closely behind it as being both the most important and the most difficult. You always have conflicts between law enforcement and the desire for public safety, which is an overriding concern in the desire to protect individual rights. It is always there. It will never end. It is a never-ending battle. It is a never-ending argument. It is a never-ending struggle to try to resolve those conflicts. 
Likewise, when it comes to paying for government--and all of us, I presume, are careful in how we spend the taxpayers' money--many of us are of the view that government itself needs to be watched very carefully, in an attempt, especially at the Federal level, to reduce it as much as possible so that taxpayers get to keep as much of their money as possible. The bottom line is, we are going to have some government. 
I was very struck watching President Jiang Zemin in China. I didn't see any demonstrators over in China. And the reason is, they don't have a law protecting them. They don't have government of, by, and for the people. That is a law that protects, but it also costs us money. 
We have to decide how we are going to organize our police force, fire department, and all the rest of it. When, at the Federal level we decide we want an Army, a Navy, an Air Force, and a Marine Corps, which we authorized not too long ago for the defense of this Nation, we have to decide how we are going to collect the money. So we write a law that not only decides how that money is going to be collected but we write a law that authorizes the collection agency--in this case, the IRS. 
I begin with those basics because sometimes I hear people describe the IRS as if it is a Sears & Roebuck or a private-sector operation. It is not. It is a creation of law. If you wanted to get rid of the IRS completely--I have heard some people argue that--you could come down here and offer an amendment to abolish the IRS. The IRS needs a law. The IRS--and in its current form, for those who are in the private sector and used to working with private-sector organizations--the IRS has a board of directors composed of 535 Members of Congress, 100 in the Senate and 435 in the House. Again, it is important to understand that. 
We come--all of us--with different views, different ideas. The distinguished occupant of the Chair represents the good people of Arkansas. I represent the good people of Nebraska. The chairman of the committee so responsible for this legislation represents the good people of Delaware. We come with a variety of ideas in the way that we want the IRS to be governed. We bring those ideas typically forcefully to the floor, or to our respective committees, to try to get things done. 
I say that because sometimes those ideas are in conflict. Sometimes at the very moment we are calling for tax simplification, we are voting `aye' on something that makes the code more complicated. As the distinguished Senator from New York said, this piece of legislation amends the 1986 act, which itself was called, I think, the Tax Simplification Act of 1986. It was enacted before I arrived in the Senate. Fortunately, I could blame all of the problems that thing created on those who voted for it. But that legislation has been amended 64 times, and each time, typically, it makes the code a bit more complicated. 
We talk about wanting the IRS to do a better job of collecting revenue. It doesn't take long, after they have been trained and get up to speed, before the private sector puts an offer on the table to try to pull the good people away, hire them away. Sometimes the IRS says, `We want to modernize so as to have good computer operating systems.' Sometimes we fail to appropriate the money that they need to get the job done. 
All of this, and more besides, describes the difficulty of writing a law that enables the IRS to do the things that the American people want, which is to collect the amount of money that is owed in a voluntary fashion and to create an environment so that those who are willing to pay in a voluntary fashion--those who are volunteering to pay their fair share--get the answer to the question, `How much do I owe?' in as efficient a way as possible and get their taxes paid in as efficient a way as possible with the least amount of cost and harassment on their side, while still preserving the power of the IRS to go after individuals who are not willing to voluntarily comply, don't want to pay their fair share, and who, I think it is fair to say, burden those who are voluntarily complying by withholding their fair share. 
So the IRS restructuring legislation is an attempt to improve the law. I believe it does that in a number of very, very significant ways. I would like to describe a few of those for my colleagues. Indeed, at the press conference, after the conference work was done, I heard a number of people in the press ask--and I have been asked as well in Nebraska--`How will we notice the changes in this law? How will the changes be noticed by me, a taxpayer who has a relationship with the IRS?' I would like to identify a few of those. 
First, the law that creates governance for the IRS has been dramatically changed. It has been changed in the executive branch side. But it also has been changed in the legislative branch side. 
It must be noted, I think, in fairness, that we first started noticing problems with the IRS a half-dozen years ago when the tax system modernization program that we had appropriated money for wasn't functioning very well. The GAO was requested to do an examination. The GAO came back and said that as much as $3 billion had been wasted. At the time, I had the high honor of serving on the Appropriations Committee under Chairman Byrd and the ranking Republican, Senator Hatfield. Our Subcommittee on Treasury-Postal Appropriations tried to fence the money for a couple of years. We tried to work with the IRS to figure out some way to make this work better. 
In 1995, what Senator Shelby and I were going to do was withhold the money entirely. We took an alternative course to create in 1995 this restructuring commission that Congressman Portman and I had the high honor to be cochairs of in 1996 and 1997. We were just one of six committees, and still are, that the IRS had to report to. They had to come to the Appropriations Committee, the Finance Committee, and they go to the Governmental Affairs Committee. And they had to go to all three of their counterparts on the House side. They are required under law to go to each one of those. 
What the GAO reported--both at that time and later to the restructuring commission--was that you need to reorganize that, that you are not going to be able to make good investments in computers and operating systems and the software for those computers. You will make a mistake when you spend the taxpayers' money unless you get to a point in some environment where there is a shared agreement on how that money is to be spent: What is the purpose? What is the goal? Where is it that you are trying to go? 
This legislation creates on the executive branch side a new board of governance which the President appoints. They have a considerable amount of power and independence. These individuals will come from the private sector with a variety of different experiences to be able to assist the Commissioner in making a decision about what kinds of management objectives and what kinds of computer systems and software systems are going to be in place. But that board will have the opportunity as well under this legislation to meet with a single committee on an annual basis to review IRS operations and management. 
So the appropriators, the Finance Committee, and the Governmental Affairs people, in both the House and the Senate, will be meeting with this board of directors in reaching agreement. It is much more likely in this kind of environment--whatever plan the IRS comes up with and the Commissioner comes up with--that the Congress will support that plan, and support that plan on a consistent basis. 
This governing board is also much more likely to provide taxpayers with a sense that the IRS is more directly accountable to them. There will be an opportunity for citizens to go to that board, and it is much more likely that we in our offices will be able to follow up on cases that are brought to our attention. 
So the governance board on the executive branch under this law and the change in governance on the legislative branch are the first things that I believe taxpayers are going to see. They are going to see better decisions and more consistent support being provided for those decisions as a consequence of the changes in this law. They were very controversial for a long period of time. The administration reached agreement with the Congress on what those provisions were going to be. But I believe every single taxpayer is going to see a benefit as a consequence of improved governance and improved decisionmaking being made by the Commissioner of the IRS. 
The second big area where people are going to notice a change is the new management powers and authorities that are granted to the Commissioner. 
First of all, under law, the Commissioner will be able to serve a full 5-year term. Over the past, I think, 5 years now, we have had three different Commissioners. There has been substantial turnover and difficulty as a consequence of maintaining continuity. And the maintenance of continuity is a very important objective of this legislation. The IRS Commissioner not only will have the power to make management decisions in an affirmative way by providing incentives for people to perform and rewarding them when they do perform but new authorities to terminate employees who are not performing up to the highest standards of the American people and the American taxpayer. 
In addition, the Commissioner is not only given authority but directed to change the way we manage the IRS from the current system, which is a district and regional geographical organization, to functional lines of governance. Every single taxpayer is going to notice that change, Mr. President, not this year but certainly over the next 2 or 3 years. Our taxpayers are going to say it is an awful lot easier now that the Commissioner has organized the IRS by individual taxpayers, by corporate taxpayers small, by corporate taxpayers big, and by nonprofits. It is going to be a lot more likely that the Commissioner is going to be able to give each one of those entities the continuity of service they are asking for. 
As individuals move from one part of the country to another, they find themselves in a different region, in a different district. It is much more likely that the Commissioner is going to be coming to the Congress saying: Here are some changes we could make to decrease the cost of compliance and make it easier for larger taxpayers, for smaller taxpayers, for individual taxpayers--much more likely when we organize around functional lines. 
And with the increased authority under the law the Commissioner will have, it is much more likely that every single taxpayer will say: It has gotten much easier for me to pay my taxes. They may still think they are too high. They may still say: It should be a consumption tax or some other way of paying my taxes, but it has gotten easier; I have gotten the information more quickly; there is an operating system here, a computer system here, an information system here, that has made it easier for me to acquire the information if I have a complaint or discrepancy. 
And you hear it all the time. Somebody calls up and says: I am making $10,000 a year; I got a bill for $140,000; it's ridiculous; something is wrong. I call up my IRS office. They don't have the ability to reassure me that a mistake has been made. It takes months and months and months. 
With this new governance structure, with this new authority, we are providing the Commissioner what I think every single Senator and every single Representative is going to hear citizens saying: I am able to call up and get an immediate change. If I have a change of address and my refund check hasn't arrived, it is going to be much more likely I am going to get immediate attention, same-day attention, to that and shorten the amount of time that is required to get the problem resolved. 
Mr. President, not only do taxpayers save money because the IRS will spend less money, but the taxpayers themselves downstream will save a lot more money, not having to chase around and solve the problem. 
The third big area is in taxpayer rights, and there are a lot of changes. I am just going to list a few of them. The chairman talked extensively about the burden of proof shift. I think it is a reasonable compromise, although there is still some cause for concern. If we find ourselves with some problems as a consequence of this provision, which I don't think we will, Congress can always make some modifications. It shifts the burden of proof in all forms of income at the Tax Court. There are changes in the way taxpayers' proceedings are handled at the IRS, including such issues as to how costs are awarded and apportioned, civil damages if the IRS is negligent. 
One of the things we are trying to do all the way through the rights provision is make certain that when the IRS sends out a collection notice, they are going after a taxpayer for doing something, that they have relatively high certainty the taxpayer has done something wrong. The burden is on them to make a judgment with this new law, because if we find that the IRS has been negligent, the IRS has done something wrong, under these new provisions the IRS can be held not only responsible but liable for payment to the taxpayer--much more likely, as a consequence, taxpayers are going to see fewer collection notices that are sent out when no collection is warranted. 
There is relief for innocent spouses, changes in interest and penalty, new protections under audit, new disclosure requirements to taxpayers--extremely important provisions, Mr. President. The taxpayer very often just doesn't get the information, doesn't know what is going on. As a consequence, they are not able to make a judgment about how much they owe. 
There are provisions in the bill to create low-income clinics, a very important provision as well. We all know that the higher your income, the more likely it is you are going to have somebody do your taxes for you. With all the tax simplification and complexity issues that we hear, as income gets more complicated, it is more and more likely as a result that your income is going to be higher and more likely that somebody else is going to do your tax return for you. But for that lower-income American, these low-income clinics are going to be, I think, an extremely important part of our overall effort to make certain that all Americans say, whether it is the IRS or the FBI or the USDA or whatever it is, it is still Government of, by, and for the people. And the law has to be on the side of all Americans, not just those of higher incomes but on the side of middle-income Americans and lower-income Americans. And I think this low-income clinic provision is a very important part of it. 
In addition, under the rights provision, the IRS will be required to catalog complaints it can bring to Congress, and we can sort out and see if there are any repetitive problems here and make judgments about whether or not, as a result of those repetitive problems, we need to make further changes in the law. 
The fourth big area is the area of simplicity. The distinguished Senator from New York commented on that at length. I would only point out that I think, again, Members are going to hear taxpayers saying: Well, finally we have some things in there that help us deal with this problem, estimated to be $100- to $200-billion a year, of costs to the taxpayer to comply with the current code. 
Now, it has to be said, as long as you tax income, it is going to be invasive. That is my own belief. If you tax income, it is almost going to be true that it is going to feel invasive if you are in an audit situation. This law will give taxpayers, I think, some new evidence that we are getting the word out on simplification. 
First of all, for the first time under law, the Commissioner is empowered to make comments and to be there when laws are being written. Right now, you will have to search your memory bank, and I think in vain, to find a time when you have ever heard an IRS Commissioner say: Great idea, Mr. President; great idea, Senator Blowhard--for some new tax break--but here is what it is going to cost the taxpayer to comply. 
We heard in the restructuring commission examples, and we filed them as a part of our index, of situations where provisions in the code cost far more to enforce than they generate in revenue. The cost to the taxpayer and the cost to the IRS to collect the money is greater than the benefit measured in the amount of money that is collected. 
So in addition to putting the Tax Commissioner at the table and giving him authority to comment, as the distinguished Senator from New York mentioned earlier, there is a new simplicity analysis that will be done and prepared so we can judge whether or not an idea that we have is going to either increase or decrease the cost to the American people to comply. 
There are new provisions, next, Mr. President, in the area of the Taxpayer Advocate, making the advocate more independent, making the Advocate more likely to help in the resolution of problems--a very important section. And I think every single taxpayer who has a problem with the IRS is going to see that this new Taxpayer Advocate is more likely under this new law to be able to help resolve in an expeditious fashion any complaint or problem they have. 
Last, Mr. President, in the section dealing with electronic filing, those of us who have spent some time on this believe, No. 1, that if you are trying to reduce the cost, the most important thing is to reduce the number of errors. In the electronic world, there is less than half of 1 percent errors. In the paper world, it is 20 to 25 percent errors being made both by the IRS and the individuals who are filling out the forms. The electronic world offers us a tremendous opportunity to decrease the cost to comply for both the taxpayer and the IRS. 
The language of this bill says that the IRS would encourage private sector competition. Again, I must say I think it is very important that Congress pay attention to this. Though I want the IRS to be able to offer services to the American taxpayer, I want to make certain that there is vigorous competition out in the private sector for the delivery of these services. 
All in all, I believe this piece of legislation represents a good-faith effort on the part of Members of this body and the House to do something that is extremely difficult, and that is to write the laws governing the collection of our taxes in a way that resolves all the various conflicts that you have when you are trying to write any piece of legislation dealing with something where you are simultaneously trying to make it easy for taxpayers to comply and make it difficult for people who are not willing to comply to live outside the letter, the spirit, and the intent of the law. 
I close with what I said at the beginning. I have high praise for Chairman Roth for his good work, his balance, and his determination to finally get this done. I have high praise as well for Senator Grassley, who served on the restructuring commission, for Congressman Portman, who was my chairman, as well as Congressman Cardin and the senior Senator from New York, Senator Moynihan, the ranking Democrat on the committee. 
I look forward to final passage, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Senator from Nevada and I have had the occasion to work together on a number of things. I appreciate his early support, not just of this piece of legislation, but his early support for changing laws giving taxpayers more rights when dealing with the Internal Revenue Service. This is just a continuation of Taxpayer Bill of Rights 1 and 2 with which I know the Senator from Nevada was very much involved. 
I also thank him for bringing to our attention this issue of meals deductibility. That was a judgment that was being made by the Treasury Department. I understand it is one of those situations that sort of makes sense if all you are doing is pushing a pencil and trying to make your numbers and the law come together. Had he not brought that to our attention, we would have had one more example, one more situation where the Code becomes enormously complicated, enormously burdensome. What happens is, people just lose confidence in their government. They say, `How could you do something so stupid?' 
I appreciate him bringing it to our attention. It had not been brought to our attention. Not only would the people of Nevada have been up in arms about it, but I say throughout the country. I say to my friend from Nevada there would have been an awful lot of people knocking on our doors talking to us about `How could you do something that required people of average means to reach even farther to try to stay on the right side of the law?' I was happy to assist in this matter, but I assisted not just to help the people of Nevada who have such able leadership in the Senator from Nevada, but I believe everybody from the United States of America is going to benefit as a consequence of that change. 
Mr. BRYAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to urge my colleagues to support the Intelligence Authorization Bill. This bill is the product of the Intelligence Committee's efforts to match national intelligence resources and activities with today's and tomorrow's threats. Under Chairman Shelby's leadership, the Committee has tried to move the Intelligence Community toward new technologies which address emerging threats like weapons proliferation, terrorism, and information operations, while at the same time keeping intelligence strong against the mature threats, such as Russian nuclear forces, which still can kill scores of millions of Americans. 
Most of this bill is secret, contained in a classified annex available to all Members for review in S-407. However, it has been reported that the bill authorizes less money for intelligence programs than the President requested. I am not pleased with this outcome. But as the national security budgets are currently organized, the Intelligence Authorization bill must respond to larger Defense requirements. The dependent relationship of intelligence to defense is anachronistic, in my view, but it exists and Chairman Shelby and I have worked with our colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to make the best of a bad budgetary situation for both Committees. Let me add, I am equally concerned that the Defense budget is skirting the level of inadequacy, especially with regard to our conventional forces. National security is the principal function of government, and we should fund it better. 
The Intelligence Committee looked at the way intelligence is collected--through imagery, signals, human, and measurements and signatures--and saw mature technologies which have served America well for many years pitted against revolutionary change in the collection environments. The Committee studied solutions to this imbalance. In addition to its own evaluation, the Committee gathered a group of outside scientific experts, including some who have had no previous connection to intelligence, to recommend solutions to our shortfalls in signals and human intelligence. This panel's recommendations are also reflected in this bill. So Chairman Shelby and I have a strong basis in evidence for the new technologies and initiatives which would be authorized by this bill. 
The recent nuclear tests in India brought accusations of `intelligence failure' in our media. In fact, I think the episode might be more accurately called a policy failure, but intelligence could certainly have done a better job. Director of Central Intelligence Tenet quickly tasked Admiral David Jeremiah to review the Intelligence Community's performance, and a summary of his recommendations have been declassified at the Committee's request. 
The India nuclear case offers many lessons, but two are especially important to intelligence. The first is that the Director of Central Intelligence needs to run the national Intelligence Community to ensure agency efforts are focused and priorities across the individual agencies are clear. I am holding off on legislation to increase the DCI's management powers because new officials are in place in positions already created by Congress to help manage the Community better. I want to see what progress Deputy Director Joan Dempsey and her new Assistant Directors make in harnessing the DCI's existing powers, before Congress creates new ones. Congress and the American people hold the DCI accountable for these problems. We need the DCI to be in charge. 
The second India lesson is the tendency to `mirror image', to assume Indians, in this case, would behave as we do. This tendency increases when there is unanimity among analysts and no one is asking contrarian questions. To insure such questions are always asked during the analysis of significant intelligence, Chairman Shelby and I are offering an amendment today which, among other things, will require competitive analysis as an integral, routine part of the analytic process. The fundamental purpose of intelligence is to keep our policymakers and military commanders from being surprised. Competitive analysis should at least reduce the chance of surprise. 
Finally, Mr. President, I understand Chairman Shelby will introduce an amendment to name the CIA headquarters building after the only U.S. President who has also served as DCI, former President George Bush. While I am not enthusiastic about the current fad of naming things after living politicians, I make an exception in this case. In political terms, service as DCI carries considerable risk. Your apparent failures are big news, while your successes are secret and the fruits of your leadership are harvested by your successor. But in peace or war, George Bush never calculated risks when there was an opportunity to serve his country, and I think he particularly relished the hardest tasks. Naming his old headquarters in his honor is a fitting tribute which I am proud to support. 
Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support this important bill, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Senate is now in the process of creating arguably the most important legislation we produce all year, the Defense Authorization Bill. We are authorizing the activities of government which keep Americans free and safe, and we are authorizing activities which are carried out by young Americans in a spirit of courage and selfless service. So there is no more serious legislation than this. My purpose today is to ask my colleagues as they deliberate on this bill to consider the threats to our country as they are and as they likely will be in the decade ahead, so we authorize armed forces which will be able to deter or defeat those threats. 
The arms forces we authorize in this bill keep America safe mainly by their credible potential for overwhelming, focused, sustained violence. We allocate the funds by categories such as training, operations and maintenance, quality of life, readiness, but in actuality these funds are to support the credibility of that potential for violence. It is a potential to counter and, if necessary, defeat the threats which put at risk our national life, the lives of Americans, and in some cases the livelihoods and interests of Americans. It is a potential which is an essential element of our national power. 
Our colleagues on the Armed Services Committee have taken on the daunting task of measuring the forces the President has requested against the threats we face. I say this is a daunting task because while the threats are dynamic, there is a normal human trait to see the threats as static, particularly when we are already heavily invested in a technology or a family of weapons that have proven successful against a particular threat in the past. It is our duty, Mr. President, to resist that trait, to see the world as it is and to try our best to see it as it will be. In our analysis our most useful tool is the information produced by our Intelligence Community. 
Let's look out across the world of the present and near future. We see Russian nuclear forces, still deployed, still on alert, still capable of killing scores of millions of Americans. We see growing indiscipline in the way Russian nuclear weapons are stored and maintained, combined with a hunger for plutonium and weapons-grade uranium among the world's weapons proliferators. In China we see a much smaller but still deadly Chinese nuclear force, reportedly with its weapons targeted on the U.S. We depend heavily on the intelligence community to monitor Russia's and China's nuclear status, for the reason we always did: because our national survival could be at stake. 
In Russia we see conventional forces in steep decline and in China conventional forces which appear to be outmoded and immobile, compared with U.S. forces. Looking more broadly, we see a small and diminishing number of countries with capable conventional land or naval forces, but an increasing number of countries and movements trying to develop weapons of mass destruction. In the case of India and Pakistan, we see vividly how successful proliferation efforts add to global danger. We also see non-national and multi-national threats such as terrorist movements and drug cartels posing greater threats to the safety of Americans than the threats posed by the conventional military forces of the few isolated, weak rogue states who claim to be our adversary. Looking more broadly, past the ability of our potential adversaries to do violence, we see a new world in which people increasingly do not look to their national governments as the sole means of accomplishing their goals in international matters. The age of imperialism, in which national governments invaded each other's territory to extend their power, seems a distant memory. Saddam Hussein's attack on Kuwait eight years ago and the current nuclear tension between India and Pakistan are two indicators that we must keep a sharp eye on relations between states, and if our policymakers choose to intervene in such conflicts, we must have armed forces capable of doing so. But we are in a world in which nonnational actors--individuals as well as corporations and movements have taken international relations into their own hands. 
The global nature of the Internet and the global, not national, outlook of the world's dominant corporations, are well known to all. Daimler-Benz' recent purchase of a company which less than twenty years ago we were bailing out as a patriotic duty, and the lack of concern in this country about that purchase, underscores the point. At the other, individual end of the scale, we see individual Irish citizens, both north and south, looking beyond their governments and the borders created by governments and seeing the advantage of direct personal and commercial relationships, the advantage not just of peace but of lower barriers. The relentless integration of Europe, most recently marked by the introduction of a common currency, is a sharp contrast to the conflicts and ancient rivalries which marked and divided Europe for centuries. European conflict called forth the greatest armies America ever raised, twice in this century. Today we are concerned with residual ethnic disputes in isolated corners of Europe and in the case of Bosnia even deploy military force in an effort to stabilize and contain the conflict. But large-scale conventional conflict in Europe, for the first time since the invention of gunpowder, is unthinkable. 
Outside Europe, we see economic integration throughout Asia and in our own hemisphere, and we see economic integration leading cultural integration. The national boundaries are blurring. In this metropolitan area, for example, there are cable TV stations broadcasting in Spanish, Arabic, Japanese, and other languages. Even in Pakistan and India, the elites who rattle nuclear weapons at each other are part of the same global culture; their children are studying in American universities. 
There are exceptions to the trend of global integration. There are pockets of recalcitrance: dictatorships who retain power by force, immature democracies in which crime rivals legitimate business and creates internal civil wars, unscrupulous leaders in places like the Middle East, South Asia, and the former Yugoslavia who manipulate ethnic rivalries as a tool to retain power. These are the 
places likely to generate conflicts which threaten our safety or our interests. These are the places which, especially if economic disparity is added to ethnic or religious differences, from which violence will emanate. These are the places in which U.S. intelligence ought to provide policymakers and warfighters the edge. Given that such places exist, and given the enduring strategic threat we also face from Russia, what should our armed forces be able to do? 
First, our forces should be able to deter the threat of Russian and Chinese nuclear weapons, along with the growing threat posed by regional nuclear programs. The Wall may have fallen, but until verifiable arms control agreements bring this nuclear episode of military history to an end, we need modern, robust nuclear forces and we need the intelligence to closely watch not just Russia and China, but also the nuclear activities of proliferating countries. Good intelligence is inextricably linked to a sound strategic defense, and it is not cheap. Strong nuclear forces in the absence of nuclear testing means a dependable Stockpile Stewardship Program. We and the world must have absolute confidence in our nuclear capabilities. I will therefore support the efforts of the Senator from New Mexico to restore full funding to the Stockpile Stewardship Program. 
Defending America from nuclear threats also means preventing fissile materials from falling into the hands of those aspiring to develop nuclear weapons, be they aspiring countries or terrorists. The Indian-Pakistani attainment of nuclear weapons does not cease our efforts; it means we should redouble them. In this sense, the security of Russia's vast nuclear arsenal is very much in our interest. The Armed Services Committee has long recognized this fact through the Nunn-Lugar program, and I will support restoration of full funding for Nunn-Lugar in this bill. Beyond the nuclear threat, the increasingly interconnected world I described presents little likelihood of a clash of large conventional forces. In addition to globalization, we see a reduction in conventional forces of most countries. With the vitally important exception of the United States, I also see a decline in recent years in the fighting spirit in the remaining large conventional forces in the world. All these trends suggest we will not see our military engaged in a major conventional conflict in the foreseeable future. Certainly the example of the Gulf War should dissuade other countries from putting a large armored force into the field against the United States. Large-scale conventional modernization can therefore safely be a lower priority for us. However, smaller, highly mobile, highly ready conventional forces will be a necessity. 
Ethnic conflict will continue to erupt on the peripheries of global integration. Because of America's unique power and because, as the performance of our NATO allies in Bosnia prior to our arrival there showed, other countries' militaries will not take forceful action without an American example, we will be called upon for future deployments much like the Bosnian mission. Certainly we cannot answer every call. But if a conflict threatens a wider war which would require an even greater American involvement, we must deploy to nip some conflicts in the bud. It is an obligation of leadership. If we do it right, others will imitate us and we will have to deploy less often. 
In designing our forces we should bear in mind the characteristics of the ideal deployable forces: highly capable (packing a strong punch), highly mobile, highly trained, well maintained, closely connected to national 
and theater intelligence, integrated with the command and control systems of the allies with whom we will operate, rapidly transportable to the theater of deployment, and supported by tailored logistics. These forces should operate in an environment in which we control the coasts and sea lanes in the vicinity and the airspace over the vicinity, for purposes of support, surveillance, and air strikes if necessary. 
Beyond regional deployments, we face non-national threats such as weapons proliferation, terrorism, and the casualties we continually suffer from drug trafficking. As with the Russian nuclear threat, the first line of defense against these threats is the best possible intelligence. We require military forces that can respond to the intelligence when policy makers so direct: agile, superbly trained and equipped special operations forces. Increasingly the military future belongs to the sophistication and stealth of the special operator, rather than the armored masses of the past. Maintaining such forces in all the services should be among our highest priority. 
Mr. President, a new threat has materialized in recent years, the threat of electronic attack against the communications systems and computer networks which are increasingly the fundamental infrastructure of our country. Recent Defense Department exercises have helped size the potential problem and the Administration has a number of agencies developing a response. As with every threat, intelligence plays a key role in warning against and countering this threat. In developing our defenses, we need units with great knowledge, the best equipment, technically sophisticated people, and speed in both decision and execution. Fortunately, these are American traits. In fact, those who contemplate attacking us in the realm of information operations are really attacking into one of our greatest national strengths. But we should not be over confident. We need to defend in cyberspace, and the forces authorized in this bill should do so. 
The Armed Services Committee was faced with a tight budget and difficult choices. I propose reviewing those choices with this criterion: how does this or that program help create or sustain the kind of military forces I have described, forces responsive to the threats and global realities we face? We simply cannot afford to allocate these scarce resources on the basis of other criteria. It is not enough to state a particular class of equipment is wearing out or should be replaced, we have always had that class of equipment, so we should get a new modern version. We must ask: how does that class of equipment respond to the threats we face and will face? It is not enough to state, the defense plant in my state will lack work if we do not buy a particular item. It is not enough to state, the military base in my state must continue to operate at or above its current level of manning, regardless of the national need. It is unfair to our service members and their families, it is unfair to taxpayers, but above all it is unfair to the nation we are pledged to defend, to force precious defense funds to be spent on a basing system which is reportedly over twenty percent larger than the nation requires. 
Mr. President, I will be looking closely at this legislation in terms of its contribution to the forces we require. It is far more agreeable to stay the course and stick with the traditional weapons and organizations and bases which helped win the Cold War. With an institution as large and complex as the Defense Department, change is also a lengthy process. But we must lead change and make the defense choices to align our forces with the world as it is and will be. Our fighting men and women deserve it and our country should expect it of us.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, today I am introducing the `Missouri River Basin, Middle Loup Division Project Facilities Conveyance Act.' 
The bill provides for the transfer of title of irrigation project facilities and lands from the Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of Interior to the Middle Loup Division irrigation districts in central Nebraska. These districts have operated the facilities there for over 35 years. 
The project facilities are part of the Missouri River Basin Project, and provide water from the Middle Loup River to over 64,000 acres of irrigable land, as well as providing recreation and fish and wildlife benefits. Principal features of the projects include the Sherman Dam and Reservoir, the Arcadia Diversion Dam, the Milburn Diversion Dam, irrigation canals and laterals, drains and pumping plants. 
Crops grown on these irrigated lands primarily include alfalfa, small grains, sugar beets, and corn to provide feed for a thriving livestock-feeding economy in my state of Nebraska, which includes beef cattle, hogs, and poultry. 
In 1995 the Vice President indicated that the Bureau of Reclamation of the U.S. Department of Interior should transfer title to allow local ownership of irrigation projects such as this. The Bureau has indicated to me that this project is a top candidate for title transfer to be achieved. When this legislation passes, Nebraska will become the first state where title transfer efforts have been successful. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the country has recently lost to retirement its commander in chief of the United States Strategic Command, General Eugene E. Habiger, USAF, and his wife, Barbara. General Habiger has taken the United States and the U.S. Strategic Command into a new world environment. With the end of the Cold War, two rivals were uncertain how to proceed. Under General Habiger's leadership, the former Soviet Union and United States strategic forces have developed a trusting, confident understanding of the other's capabilities and operations. 
During his tenure, General Habiger's insightful leadership and visionary initiatives revolutionized the readiness and flexibility of the Nation's strategic deterrent force in support of the National Command Authorities and regional combatant commanders. He made major contributions to the national security of the United States by establishing parameters for future strategic forces; by leading a stable drawdown of nuclear forces; by fostering mutual understanding and cooperation with Russia; and by shaping the process by which the United States maintains the long-term safety and reliability of its nuclear weapons stockpile. New tools and concepts developed under General Habiger's leadership ensured strategic forces remained safe, effective, ready and responsive to changing world needs. 
As stated in a letter from General Henry H. Shelton, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Habiger `helped Americans more fully appreciate the important strategic mission, improved the relationship with Russia, and molded future leaders who will ably take the USSTRATCOM mission into the 21st Century.' From the early days as a student pilot at Williams Air Force Base, Arizona, to commander of the 325th Bombardment Squadron, General Habiger was an outstanding aviator and leader. A command pilot with more than 5,000 flying hours, he flew combat missions in support of ARC LIGHT operations in Southeast Asia from October 1969 to April 1970. The general's varied and vast contributions to the nation's strategic defense and his many critical command positions helped secure peace through strength and make the U.S. Air Force the world's best. 
We also lose a tremendous supporter and friend in his wife, Barbara. Barbara's extraordinary voluntary contributions to the community of Omaha, Nebraska contributed to the well being of countless military and civilian families in the area. As an active member of the Salvation Army Advisory Board, her efforts touched thousands through dollars raised during the Tree of Lights and Bell Ringers programs. Her work with the Nebraska Council for Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention and the Western Heritage Museum helped ensure the effectiveness and success of these vital organizations. The Henry Doorly Zoo benefitted from Barbara's volunteerism, as she led efforts to help raise nearly one million dollars for the care and feeding of the zoo's animals. 
General and Mrs. Habiger leave the military after a distinguished 39 year career serving their nation. The people of the United States salute General and Mrs. Habiger and wish them well as they begin their lives after military service.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to this conference report for the same reasons that I objected to the legislation when we debated it here on the Senate floor in March. But I do not take this vote lightly. How we educate our kids better is a serious issue. I know that in regard to the legislation proposed by Senator Coverdell, I have a different opinion than my Catholic schools friends in Nebraska, Jim Cunningham of the Nebraska Catholic Conference and Sister Pat Mulcahey, superintendent of the Omaha Archdiocese. But when it comes to the core issue of whether we want to provide a better education for America's young people, Jim, Sister Pat, and I are always on the same side: Yes, we do. 
First of all, let me say that I am deeply appreciative and respectful of the mission of parochial schools in Nebraska and throughout the nation. But I am also, and always have been, a strong supporter of public schools. I would support legislation that truly helped the vast majority of public school and parochial school parents improve educational opportunities for their children. I do not believe that this legislation accomplishes that goal. 
Granted, this legislation looks better than it did when it was originally passed in the Senate. But I believe it is still flawed. This education IRA bill for K-12 expenses will add significantly to the nearly $75 billion annually paid by taxpayers in an effort to comply with the tax code. It is also an example of how Congress passes tax law without considering the cost of administering this new tax law and its real impact on the American taxpayers it is supposed to help. 
Furthermore, it makes no real investment in those areas of education that are crucial to the success of our young people as they prepare to enter the workforce. In order to help more of our children achieve the American Dream, we have to equip them with the skills to do so. Technology programs, Title 1, and vocational education are where we need to focus our efforts. 
And so I would urge my colleagues, if we truly want to help America's children get a better education, let's invest in programs that produce results, and let's make sure all of our students have the opportunity to benefit from them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will connect what I say here about this piece of legislation with Father's Day. I had the occasion, during our last recess, to take my 23-year-old son and my 21-year-old daughter to Omaha Beach. I was in the audience on the 6th of June, 1994, in Antelope Park in Lincoln, NE, where, among other people, I heard at that time the senior Senator from Nebraska, Senator Exon, and many other speakers talk about that day on the 6th of June, 1944, when very young men crossed the English Channel in the early morning and, as they approached the beaches of Normandy in France--now quite quiet, now nowhere near as hostile as it was on that morning--the bullets from the German trenches rained down upon the beach. And the soldiers, as they approached the beach that morning, could hear the bullets raking the front of their landing craft. Those of us who have experienced bullets raking in any environment at all understand the courage that it took to lower those gates and leave those boats, knowing that it was highly likely that they were going to be shot and that it was even a higher probability, in those early landing craft, that they would die. 
On the occasion that I took my son and daughter, this year, to Omaha Beach, I pointed out the crosses there in this very quiet, reverential place--that each one of them is a story. Each one of them is a son. Each one of them was either a potential father or perhaps was a father themselves, leaving behind grieving sons and daughters who remember that extraordinary service. 
So, on Father's Day I am apt, I suspect as many of us who have served are--apt to reflect, not only upon my father, but also upon the fathers who are no longer with us as a consequence of their service, as a consequence of their heroism, as a consequence of their courage. And I, as an individual, am always more impressed with the courage and the heroism that is done, as the distinguished Senator from West Virginia was describing in his own father, without any expectation that there would be a television camera recording the act, or a newspaper reporter writing it down, or any glory whatsoever, necessarily, coming to that individual. 
The most important act of heroism is that act of heroism that occurs when nobody is observing what you do. That is when character is built. That is when the strength of, not just the individual, but the strength of the Nation, comes through as well. These young men who landed on that beach on the 6th of June, 1944, knew that they perhaps would die with no one there recording what it was that they had done. 
I am struck, not just on Father's Day, but on many other days as well, how blessed we are as a result of the sacrifices that our fathers made for us and our forefathers made for us. 
As I begin my comments on this piece of legislation, I can't help but connect with what the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, the senior Senator, was talking about earlier about fathers and sacrifice and the nobility of character that is developed in that moment when you do what your father told you to do. You follow not just the straight and narrow path, but often the most difficult path. My own father's most important lesson to me was that the easy road is apt to be the wrong road; the easy course is apt to be the wrong course. It is that difficult path that we very often must choose. 
I am here on the floor to make that observation about this particular piece of legislation, Mr. President, S. 2057, 35 titles, 412 pages. I came here as a former Governor, as a former businessperson, and the longer that I am on the job of writing laws, the more impressed I am that there is a connection between these laws and our lives. It may be that some of these words in this piece of legislation I disagree with, and I may come to the floor and try to change some of these words, but none of us should doubt that these words are important, that they create an authorization in law that enables us to have an Army, a Marine Corps, a Navy, an Air Force, and a Coast Guard. It frames for us and authorizes for us what we will need to defend our Nation. 
One of the things that I hear very often when I am talking to the citizens of my State whom I represent is they will say to me, `Well, Senator, what threats are there? The cold war is over. For gosh sakes, what threats are there today to the people of the United States of America that would justify this expenditure, not just of money but of lives?' 
Understand, we are not just authorizing the creation of an Army, a Navy, a Marine Corps, an Air Force, and a Coast Guard, we are asking young men and women to come in and swear an oath to their country and defend the people and, if necessary, not only to risk their lives, but even to give their lives in a cause that we on this floor declared important, as we have done in Bosnia, as we have done throughout the world not just in this year but in past years. 
My answer is, unfortunately it was not readily apparent in the 1920s that there was a threat. Thus, Americans in the 1920s said, `We have suffered enough in the Great War,' the so-called war to end all wars. It was supposed to be the last war of mankind. We had a treaty at Versailles in 1919. It was believed that was all we had to do. So we came home and wrote laws in response to people saying, `We've had enough.' We wrote laws that downsized our military, that said there is no apparent threat in the 1920s, so we maintained just a skeleton force, if that. 
Mr. President, my father was a 6-year-old in Chicago in 1919, and little did he know that the move to demilitarize this Nation, the move to isolate this Nation, the move to say that we are going to take care of America first and only would result not just in his having to serve in the Army, and he was being prepared for the assault of Japan when Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs were dropped and Japan surrendered, but his older brother, John, went to the Philippines expecting in 1941 to return happily a year later, but he was among those who were, on the 8th of December, the day after the attack on Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, he was among those who were on the island in the Philippines unprepared for an attack--unprepared--and, as a consequence, they not only suffered the Bataan death march, but 
suffered horribly over the next few years. 
It may not be that we see a threat of enormous dimensions today, but this piece of legislation, I hope, prepares us for the threat that we don't see, for the threat that may occur tomorrow. I hope that we understand as we write this piece of legislation that there are men and women who are serving us in our Armed Forces. 
I know that the Armed Services Committee has written in to make certain that they are not only given a sufficient amount of resources to train and prepare themselves, but that they are given adequate housing and that they are given adequate health care and that they are given other things as a consequence of us knowing and understanding that they are serving us and putting themselves at risk in service to us. 
Another area that I think we also need to understand is that there is diplomacy that occurs simultaneously with our authorizing and preparing our defenses. One very important piece of diplomacy will occur next week when our President, our Commander in Chief, travels to the People's Republic of China, the largest nation on Earth, the most populous nation on Earth, still a Communist nation, still, in my opinion, suffering as a result of not having what we have, and that is the blessings of liberty, of a government of, by and for the people. 
I hope that on this defense authorization bill we will not make it more difficult for the President to engage in diplomacy. I hope that we are able to restrain ourselves. I know that there is interest in China. I know there will be amendments that will come to the floor, but I hope that we will not make diplomacy more difficult, Mr. President. 
Diplomacy is the effort that we make to say that we are going to do all we can, not just to keep our defenses strong to prepare for a threat we may not see today, not just to keep our defenses strong so we discourage bad behavior, but diplomacy is an effort we make to prevent wars from happening in the first place. 
To that end, I would like to comment a bit on some diplomacy. On Wednesday of this week, the Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, gave a speech about Asia, and especially she commented about the need to change our policies carefully towards the nation of Iran. 
I rise, indeed, to note two important events in the often troubled relationship between the United States and Iran. One of these events, Secretary of State Albright's speech to the Asia Society on Wednesday night, and the other event is the World Cup soccer match in France between the teams of the United States and Iran. This event on Sunday is a far smaller event, but it is, nonetheless, still important. First, the speech of Secretary Albright is an intellectual event, and the second, the soccer match between the United States and Iran, is a physical event. 
The first deals with the sweep of history, the sweep of culture and religion, and the second takes place in the here and now. Yet, both, in my judgment, are major departures in a complex and extremely difficult relationship. At the level of Governments, the United States and Iran have disliked and suspected each other for 19 years. At the human level, Americans and Iranians have expressed their resentments towards the other country as they almost unconsciously grow closer to each other at the same time. 
Mr. President, with each passing year, and especially with events such as the election of President Khatami and the warm reception accorded to the American wrestling team in Iran, the gulf between our antagonistic Government-to-Government relations, and the more positive relations between the Americans and Iranians are becoming more apparent. 
Secretary Albright took an important first step Wednesday night towards closing that gulf. The importance is by no means diminished by the initial negative response that was heard yesterday on Iran's state radio. Secretary Albright recognized Mr. Khatami as the choice of 70 percent of the Iranian voters, and that he embodies their desire for change for greater freedom, for a society based on the rule of law, for a more moderate foreign policy leading to an end of Iran's international isolation. 
She also noted that Mr. Khatami has started to change Iranian policies of long-term concern to us. At the same time, Secretary Albright noted considerable caution. She said Mr. Khatami does not control the entire Iranian Government, and that is perhaps the most notable observation for all of us who are trying to decide what to do, on the one hand, with Mr. Khatami's very moderate and positive statements and the continued behavior in the overall Government that appears to be in conflict. 
The intelligence services, the military, the Revolutionary Guards are outside the control of Mr. Khatami. They respond to Supreme Jurisconsult Khamenei and the more controversial leaders whose candidate was defeated by Khatami in last year's election. 
As a result, Iran's behavior is somewhat schizophrenic. 
For example, with regard to the Arab-Israel peace process, Mr. Khatami invited Yasser Arafat to Tehran and accepted Palestinian decisions to negotiate for peace. But Iran also continues to emit harsh anti-Israeli rhetoric, which does not advance the cause of peace. Khatami has condemned terrorism, but Iran continues to support anti-Israeli terrorist groups like Hezbollah and terrorizes Iranian exile opponents of the regime. Iran has made progress against illegal drugs and is beginning to reform its institutions. But allies of Khatami, such as the mayor of Tehran and the Interior Minister, are threatened with trials, which are forms of intimidation by the old guard. 
As Secretary of State Albright noted, Iran has welcomed large numbers of Afghan refugees. Iran has also improved its relations with its Arab neighbors in the Gulf. But its development of weapons of mass destruction must give these same neighbors considerable pause. In no way could today's Iran be called a force for stability in the region. 
Secretary Albright was clear that American concerns remain and that U.S. policy towards Iran will not change until Iranian policies, and the actions flowing from those policies, change first. But she also held out the possibility for better relations, which must be tantalizing to many of the Iranian majority who voted for Khatami. The possibility should be equally tantalizing to Americans who want peace, who want security, and who want democracy for all the states of the Middle East. 
But closure will not come easily, Mr. President, or quickly. I will never completely get over the Iranian holding of our Embassy staff hostage in Tehran for over a year, and I suspect many other Americans agree with me. The death sentence which Iran applies to a writer whose book offends them and who is thereby condemned to a life in hiding deeply offends me. Let me add that if it is proven beyond a reasonable doubt that Iran was involved in the killing of 19 American airmen at Khobar Towers, the consequences for Iran will be severe and the possibility for better relations with us will be zero. 
Major changes in Iranian behavior must precede an improvement in relations between the United States and Iran, and Secretary Albright's measured tone this Wednesday reflects the administration's sober understanding of this reality. But she reminded Iran that our problem with them is not their culture or their religion, both of which we respect; the problem is Iranian actions. If those actions change, we will develop a roadmap for better relations over time. 
Meanwhile, at the human level of athletics, this coming Sunday in Lyons, France, or in universities across the United States, Iranians and Americans accept each other as individuals, compete fairly, and come to know each other as friends. We relearn how much more we have in common in our fundamental aspirations for our lives and our children's lives. If the Iranian Government chooses, our Governments can relate in the same way, and a key region will be safer. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor.  
Mr. ROBB addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. First of all, I come to the floor to offer some comments on S. 2057, a 412-page law that is before us. But I had the pleasure, as many others did on the floor, to listen to the statement of the distinguished Senator from West Virginia about not only West Virginia, but also on Father's Day. 
I want to offer my praise as well, not just for the Senator's statement, but for the Senator's service. The senior Senator from West Virginia has not only made the lives of the people of West Virginia better, but he has also made the lives of the people of America better and, for those of us who have had the opportunity to learn from him, we hope our service better as well. 
I am grateful for the advice and counsel and the assistance that the distinguished Senator has given me. But I am most grateful for those times when I had the opportunity to sit and listen to his views and his capacity to connect the strength and courage of individuals in the past to what we do here on this floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, may I ask the majority leader, does the majority leader intend to vote for cloture? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will not object, but I wish the proponent of the vote on cloture will vote for the cloture motion. We will then discover where the votes are. I am prepared to move to final passage. There is a lot in the bill I don't like. I agree with what the Senator from Arizona said earlier. I believe it important to enact legislation. There are a lot of lives at stake. I wish you would discover where the votes are by moving to cloture, but also supporting the cloture motion you are going to file. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, consumers in Nebraska currently pay some of the lowest rates in the nation for their electric service. They receive power from 171 entities--more individual electric systems than any other state. Nebraska is also the only state in the nation which relies entirely on public power for its electric service. 
This structure has served Nebraskans well, and the legislation that Senators Gorton, Bumpers, Jeffords, and I are introducing today will ensure that consumers in my state continue to receive superior electric service as efforts to deregulate the electric industry move forward. 
Mr. President, the legislation we are introducing accomplishes three important goals: 
First, this bill enables public power systems to open their transmission lines to other power producers and to transfer control of their transmission facilities to an Independent System Operator without jeopardizing the status of their tax-exempt bonds. This will enable consumers throughout the country to receive electricity from their power producer of choice in an open access marketplace. 
Secondly, this bill enables public power systems to make non-tariff sales of lost `load' resulting from retail competition, without jeopardizing the ability of the utility to issue tax-exempt debt in the future. This will allow public utilities to continue to provide quality service to current customers and attract new customers in a deregulated environment. 
Finally, Mr. President, this legislation gives public power systems the option of terminating issuance of new tax-exempt debt for generation facilities, while grandfathering all existing debt. This provision will give public power systems the flexibility necessary to make business decisions about the future based on their financial status and the electricity demands in their individual service areas. 
Mr. President, I commend Senator Gorton for the time and energy that he has devoted to this issue. It is critical that Congress alleviate the burden which current private-use regulations place on the ability of public power systems to function in a deregulated environment. 
While Congress moves toward electricity deregulation, I will continue to fight for the consumers of my state to ensure that their best interests are not compromised. The legislation my colleagues and I are introducing today is a realistic and workable solution to the private-use dilemma, and I encourage my colleagues to give it their full support.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, many of the things we do in the Senate require hypothetical analysis, shaky forecasts and hazy predictions. Indeed at times it could be said that we don't know what we're doing. Today Senator Moynihan and I are introducing a bill based on a mathematical certainty. Our bill would make every baby born in America wealthy. Guaranteed. 
This proposal, called KidSave, supplements S. 1792, the Social Security Solvency Act of 1998, which the Senator from New York introduced earlier this year and of which I am an original cosponsor. It would cut the payroll tax by $800 billion--the largest tax cut in American history, and the one most targeted to middle class families--so individuals can harness the power of compounding interest rates to build wealth for retirement. One of the discoveries I have made in researching this idea is that the most important variable in compounding interest rates is time. The earlier you start, the more wealth you build. 
KidSave is based on that observation. It would use part of the savings created by S. 1792 to open a $1,000 account for every child at birth and contribute $500 a year to that account for the first five years. These KidSave accounts would be invested in broad funds administered by the Social Security Administration, and be similar to the Thrift Savings Plan available to federal employees and to members of this body. 
As I said, Mr. President, this is a mathematical proposition. Even at modest rates of return, the long stretch of time over which this investment would be compounded means every baby born in America would have a shot at the American dream. At just 5.4 percent return, less than the historical rates of return for the market, these birth accounts alone would allow every American to supplement his or her retirement income by $235 a month in 1998 dollars, and still leave more than $100,000 behind to his or her heirs. 
These accounts would supplement those opened by the payroll tax cut proposed in S. 1792. This approach to retirement security is two-pronged. First, we shore up the solvency of Social Security so it continues to provide a reliable monthly check. But we also realize that check isn't enough to live on. The average Social Security check in Nebraska is $733 a month. Nationwide, sixteen percent of beneficiaries have no other source of income. Another 14 percent rely on Social Security for more than 90 percent of their income, and nearly two-thirds overall derive more than half their income from that small check. For many of them, it's not enough. Our proposal is based on the idea that retirees need both income and wealth, and experience bears that idea out. Today retirees with asset income have more than double the retirement income of those who don't. 
But this is about much more than money. Not only is this a guaranteed route to retirement security, it's also a mathematically certain solution to one of the toughest problems we face: The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. To understand this problem, we must understand the difference between income and wealth. Income, Mr. President, consists of the paychecks we use to pay our bills. Wealth is what an individual owns in assets like a home, mutual fund or pension. We've heard a lot recently about the gap between rich and poor in terms of income. The gap in wealth is even worse and, I would argue, more important. As our economy becomes more global and technology-intensive, it is disproportionately distributing its rewards to those who own a piece of our economy. 
Despite the growing importance of wealth, a stark gap has opened between those who have it and those who don't. The bottom 90 percent of Americans earn 60 percent of all income, but own less than 30 percent of net worth and less than 20 percent of financial assets. These Americans are being left behind as the economy apportions more and more of its rewards to owners of wealth. Social Security can be a vehicle for solving that problem. 
We believe wealth can transform Americans' attitudes about their future. Wealth enables higher living standards, but it also enables generosity and the optimism that comes with feeling secure about the future. Wealth can make every American an Oseola McCarty, the 
remarkable woman in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, who after more than seven decades of low-wage work as a washer woman donated $150,000 to the University of Southern Mississippi--wealth she had built by saving a little bit of money over a long period of time. Wealth can make every American like Al, a man who works as a printer for the U.S. Senate. His Thrift Savings Plan has boomed so much he is thinking of opening a savings account for his two-year-old boy. Wealth can give every American the opportunity to be like another man I recently met, whose firm was bought out but who became wealthier because he owned a piece of it. When I spoke with him, he didn't talk about his income. He said he had told his wife: `Whatever else happens to us in life, we know the kids can go to college.' 
Each of these Americans has something in common, Mr. President. They own a piece of their country. When the economy grows, they grow. They have a stake in low inflation. They want trade barriers lowered. They are on the front lines of a transformation from an `us-vs.-them' economy to one in which the attitude is: `We're all in this together.' 
And, Mr. President, that's an opportunity we can open today to every baby born in America. Guaranteed. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, today, I want to speak on an issue of critical importance to my state of Nebraska. Whenever I travel back to the Good Life, what Nebraskans call their home, the one issue that always percolates to the top of any conversation is the lack of affordable housing, and this issue can dominate any spirited civic dialogue in our smaller communities throughout the state. 
Talking with city officials, economic development groups, community planners, chambers of commerce representatives, and any of the town people who are deeply concerned about the prospects of their community, it is apparent to me, as sure as the Nebraska summer sky is blue, that more needs to be done to make sure communities have the necessary tools to produce affordable housing and create more home ownership opportunities. 
Home ownership should not be a far away dream, it should be a choice for many more Americans. Owning a home, some say, is not a right or privilege. I say owning a home is part of the American dream and should be a reachable goal for more Americans. 
There are great examples of home ownership programs throughout this country, and I would like to share with you some of the exciting and innovative ideas people are trying in Nebraska. 
Since 1990 the Lincoln Housing Authority (LHA) has enabled over 200 families to achieve their goal of owning a home through an innovative Home Ownership Program. LHA makes loans to qualified clients up to a maximum of $3,750. And each year the buyer remains in the home and is in compliance, 20% of the loan will be forgiven. 
LHA also has an exciting project called Lease-Purchase Program which is a joint venture with the Lincoln Public Schools. Students who are in residential construction trade classes build one single family home a year. When the home is completed, the house is placed under a lease-purchase agreement with the understanding the tenants will purchase the house at the end of the five year lease period. 
LHA, through innovation and unique partnerships, has made a huge difference in communities throughout Lincoln, where families who once thought home ownership was impossible, not see it as something that can be achieved. 
The Holy Name Housing Corproation, along with South Omaha Affordable Housing, have implemented a 32 single family rental project called the Crown Project. The project, financed by low income tax credits, Community Development Block Grant funds, and private financing, is an incubator for home ownership. These new single family homes located in North and South Omaha neighborhoods are rented to tenants committed to home ownership. This is an exciting project for members of these neighborhoods and an excellent example of what efficient partnerships can produce. 
Another fine example of what Nebraskans are doing is the example of the Kearney Housing Authority (KHA) and how they are seeking prudent partnerships that fill a need for the community of Kearney. KHA, along with the University of Nebraska at Kearney's Construction and Technology Department and the Platte Valley State Bank and Trust, is able to provide homeownership opportunities to families at income levels who otherwise could not afford it. 
What KHA did was bring in the Platte Valley State Bank and Trust--with their financial expertise and competitive interest rates--and the University--who served as the contractor and the providers of excellent hands-on education for its students--to form a most qualified partnership. KHA served as `the owner' and saw the project from beginning to the end, which resulted in a huge success story, as families were given the chance to own a home for the first time, while the Kearney community received commitments from families who wanted to invest in Kearney. 
As Americans are discussing this week how to improve home ownership opportunities and make it a reality for many more in their communities, I want to focus on rural Nebraska and how we need to make home ownership and affordable housing a reality for towns throughout Nebraska. 
In 1996, a series of seven Nebraska regional focus groups comprised of community representatives and development professionals were asked `What are the most important things to focus on in the next 12-24 months in your community?' The top four priorities were leadership development, regional collaboration, technology, and housing. 
Housing is a fundamental community need. It enhances or erodes a community's image and its appeal to business, industry, and, most importantly, the people who live there or may want to live there. Housing is a fundamental human need. Without decent, safe and affordable places to live, people lack a resource that enables them to pursue a quality of life that many others possess. 
As some communities in Nebraska have seen former residents and new folks moving to their town, they find that their town does not have the housing supply to satisfy this new demand. Also, attracted by our state's economic development efforts, businesses are seriously considering rural Nebraska, but become hesitant about locating there when it is evident there is a lack of housing for the workers they aim to employ. 
To ensure that job opportunities are not lost in our communities, to encourage population growth and to improve the quality of life for many Nebraskans, the serious lack of available and affordable housing must be addressed. Housing must be viewed as a component of every community's economic development future.  
AFFORDABILITY 
Financing affordable housing is challenging in general, but the small project located in a small town probably poses the greatest challenge of them all. Because of its size, a small project does not have the economies of scale that a larger project has, which creates a financial challenge to acquire resources into these areas. These projects cannot be ignored. 
42 percent of Nebraska's 1.6 million people live in communities of 5,000 or less. Many of the new jobs coming into these towns are processing and manufacturing jobs, where wages range from $5 to $8 an hour, which is less than $17,000 annually. Indeed, the 1994 average per capita income in rural areas was $19,100 as compared to $22,444 in metropolitan areas. 
According to the Nebraska Homebuilders, the average cost to build a new house is $120,000 and can get higher in rural areas when lack of credit, few building sites, cost of infrastructure development, and transportation and labor costs are taken into consideration. These numbers strongly suggest most rural Nebraskans will not be able to afford new housing. 
AVAILABILITY 
Increased demand coupled with limited production, increased building costs, and an aging housing stock has produced a severe housing shortage in many communities. 
In 1996, the Nebraska Affordable Housing Trust Fund estimated that Nebraska communities need, over 5 years, approximately 35,000 housing units to address population growth, to replace housing units that are substandard--29 percent of the housing stock was 58 years or older in 1996--and to address the issues of affordability. 
Because of the population decline of the 1980s, housing quality in rural Nebraska has suffered. Many home builders and contractors went out of business due to the lack of market. Without new homes to augment the older homes, the present housing market does not meet the needs of present demand. In essence, there are housing gaps. 
Also, a greater portion of housing in rural areas is inhabited by senior citizens who may not have the money, energy, or desire to improve their homes. Older homes often fall off the market because they aren't inhabitable anymore. 
From a federal standpoint, there are several tools pending in the 105th Congress that can be instrumental to communities throughout this country in need of affordable housing. I support these tools and aim to promote them among my Senate colleagues. 
First, the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) is probably the most important tool today that can create affordable housing in communities. In Nebraska, the LIHTC will be most effective in serving the affordable housing needs of the elderly. Also, it can be a great stepping stone for families moving into rural communities who need sound stability and then can proceed to search for home ownership options, if that is what they desire. 
The LIHTC was created in the 1986 tax reform bill in the wake of decreasing appropriations for federally-assisted housing. LIHTC finances most affordable rental housing produced in Nebraska for low income working families, the elderly, and people with special needs. 
Last year's GAO report on the LIHTC gave the program a healthy and favorable review. The GAO report said the program is doing more than what federal law even expected in serving the needs of the low-income. Ernst & Young assessed the program, reiterated the GAO report, and said the present cap does not meet the needs for our communities. 
Presently, the cap has not been adjusted for 10 years and inflation has muted the effectiveness of this tool for investments into communities. 45% of its purchasing power has been reduced. The present cap has created a situation where low-income needs are not being met. 
According to Tim Kenny, Executive Director of the Nebraska Investment Finance Authority, which distributes the tax credit throughout the state, applications for the LIHTC far outnumber our state's supply. The need is overwhelming. 
Because of this situation, I strongly support Senate Bill 1252 which would increase the cap per person under the LIHTC from $1.25 to $1.75. This would allow affordable housing projects that are pending in Nebraska to go through and be utilized in areas that need housing the most. 
A second federal tool that can be extremely helpful in Nebraska are private activity tax-exempt bonds. State and local governments can sell tax-exempt bonds and then pass on the savings to lower income first-time homebuyers and for the construction of low cost rental apartments. 
Presently, the cap on private activity tax-exempt bonds, set in 1986, is at $150 million, or $50 per capita. The cap applies to issuers of tax-exempt bonds for housing, economic development and other needed investments in communities. Cap growth is limited to State population increases, but not inflation. 
Similar to the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit, the cap has not been adjusted for ten years and inflation has muted some of the effectiveness of this tool for investments into communities. The present cap has created a situation where demand for capped bonds has far exceeded supply. An example is the large demand for mortgage revenue bonds which can be used to finance first-time homes for lower income families. An increase in the cap could lead to housing construction in areas of Nebraska which need it most. 
Senate Bill 1251 would increase the private activity tax-exempt bond cap to $250 million, or $75 per capita, and index it to inflation. I strongly support this bill as it could bring the dream of owning a home or renting a decent apartment closer to many Nebraskans. We have many qualified projects pending in Nebraska. They need to go forward. 
The other federal tool that Congress needs to enact into law this year is to increase the FHA loan limit and simplify the down payment calculations for these loans. 
Presently, 250 different loan limits exist throughout the country. This provision would establish one limit by raising all existing limits to $227,150. 
The FHA mortgage program helps meet home financing needs for people who are not served by the private market. Many times, the down payment is the biggest barrier to home ownership and the FHA loan guarantee helps overcome this obstacle. 
In the rural communities of Nebraska the FHA loan limit is $81,548. In non-metro areas only 14 percent of all new homes sell for less than existing rural FHA loan limits. With a loan limit of $81,548, the FHA loan, an effective tool for providing affordable housing, can not be implemented in a useful manner. The costs, as mentioned before, of building new quality housing, not tin huts, in most of our Nebraska communities are beyond the present FHA loan limit. We have to raise the limit if we are to utilize this tool 
Each year, FHA operates at no cost to the taxpayer. Price Waterhouse reported that FHA insurance premiums and loan loss recovery proceeds more than cover the cost of claims and operations. This proposal will increase new home ownership in Nebraska and I strongly support it. 
Passing these legislative proposals is important to getting tools to Nebraskans to create more affordable housing and home ownership opportunities in our communities. I will work hard to seek enactment of these bills into law and I appreciate the support and help of Nebraskans who are also working hard on making affordable housing and home ownership a reality in our state. Home ownership does not have to be a dream, it can be a reality. These tools bring that reality closer to more Nebraskans. 
I also would like to mention an extremely important tool that does not require a federal law and can work just as well. That tool is communication. In Nebraska, we have many hard working people within excellent organizations who toil long hours to bring affordable housing and homeownership opportunities to people throughout the State. They understand the importance of home ownership and know what a dream like owning your own home can do for a family that finally reaches that goal. 
I ask the communities of Nebraska to communicate with each other. What works great in one community might work just as great in the community one county over, but they might not be aware of such success. Communities can talk together, ask questions, meet and discuss how each other are getting along. Indeed, communication can be the best tool in creating affordable housing and home ownership. Learning from each other can only make us better and more aware, and we should always encourage more participation and more exchange of ideas. 
As I have already talked about exciting new projects occurring in my state, I would also like to point out there are many organizations with housing specialists throughout the state who are instrumental in getting resources to our communities. People working at these places have ideas, they have know how and are experts in finding the means to get affordable housing to where it is needed. Along with these dedicated professionals, we have, throughout Nebraska, active non-profits with missions that make the quality of life for their neighborhoods the highest priority. Couple that fact with an army of dedicated volunteers means that home ownership and affordable housing is a realistic goal for each of our towns. Nebraska is lucky to have such resources. 
We need to give these local groups the tools they need to improve the availability of affordable, quality housing. The three tools that I have mentioned can help people in these communities achieve the American Dream and should be enacted sooner rather than later.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I listened to the statements of the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island and the Senator from Massachusetts. I am struck, because I think an awful lot of people become confused about what this bill is. In part, that confusion comes as a result of a substantial amount of expenditures by the tobacco companies saying to citizens of this country that this bill is a tax increase. 
I heard the last few words the Senator from Massachusetts was saying. I believe he was saying this bill is not a tax increase; is that what the Senator from Massachusetts was saying? As I understand it, the underlying bill, prior to it being amended by the Senator from Texas, who has been arguing essentially that it is a tax increase, because he is using the same language the tobacco companies are using on television--that it is a tax increase; thus, we should have a tax cut in here as well. 
As I understand the underlying bill, it is not a tax increase at all. 
It is a $15 billion payment into a tobacco trust fund by the tobacco companies that they agreed to last June 20, 1997, and it phases up to a $23 billion fee that the tobacco companies would be paying into a tobacco trust fund as a result of another settlement which occurred in Minnesota where they basically agreed to 50 percent more. 
So this bill is not a tax increase. It is a fee being paid by the tobacco companies as a consequence of them now saying that they are stipulating in court documents--and the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts knows more about prosecutorial law than I do--because, as I understand it, they have stipulated now in court documents that nicotine is addictive, that they have been targeting our youth, that they have been failing to disclose all the dangers and risks that are associated with tobacco. 
So if you want to talk about tax cuts, I would love to come to the floor and argue about cutting the payroll tax. There are lots of inequities in our tax system I would love to debate. The distinguished Senator from Texas has converted, very intelligently, this debate from one of trying to help Americans who are addicted to stop smoking--they are not just smoking; we now know they are addicted. There is a big difference between just doing something sort of casually and doing what tobacco smokers do. 
Forty-five million Americans--likely a very high percentage of those individuals--are addicted. That means they cannot quit, they have a physical addiction, and when they stop smoking, they have withdrawal symptoms, and they have a very difficult time. 
There are 330,000 Nebraskans who smoke. They spend $250 million a year on cigarettes every single year. And I see what the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts and the Senator from Arizona are trying to do is write a law so that we have resources at the State level to help those who are addicted to stop smoking. 
Just take Nebraska, I would say. We have $250 million a year being spent by 300,000 or so people who smoke. If we are able to get smoking cessation programs and educational efforts, that would mean, let us say, $50 million less a year being spent on tobacco as a result of helping people break away from this terrible addiction to nicotine. They break away from that addiction, and $50 million less, that is $250 million in their pockets. 
The Senator from Texas is talking about a tax increase. We are trying to help decrease expenditures on tobacco. And the more we decrease expenditures on tobacco, the more we get a win-win: Money in the pockets of our citizens, the people who are addicted, who did not realize that tobacco was addicting; and improve health consequences. 
I note with great interest that the Chamber of Commerce--U.S. Chamber of Commerce--and the National Restaurant Association are opposed to this legislation. They are opposed because they are misinformed, in my judgment. I can make the case at home--and intend to make the case at home--to my State chamber of commerce and my State restaurant association that it is in their interest to reduce the number of citizens in our State who are smoking. 
Their health insurance costs are going to be lower; their absentee rates are going to be lower; their productivity rates are going to be higher. I said yesterday that one of my most conservative business friends will not even hire people who smoke as a consequence of understanding the costs that are associated with it. 
I see that my friend from Texas has come to the floor. We perhaps can engage in a little colloquy about this, because as I understand this legislation that the Senator from Arizona and the Senator from Massachusetts have brought to the floor, there is a $15 billion fee in it phased up to $23 billion that the tobacco industry has agreed to pay. They agreed to pay $15 billion. And they have agreed in Minnesota to pay 50 percent more. As I see it, the more we are successful in helping people stop their smoking, break away from this terrible addiction, that is going to make them more prosperous, more healthy, as a consequence. 
I have talked, and there are a number of questions in there. I would appreciate very much if the Senator from Massachusetts could help me understand if that isn't what is in this legislation, if that isn't the intent of what is in the law as seen by the Senator from Massachusetts and the Senator from Arizona.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, let me say I appreciate the suggestion the Senator from Texas just made, because I intend to do approximately the same thing, only with the entire piece of legislation. Perhaps I am the only Member of the Senate who is becoming increasingly confused about what is in this bill. Perhaps everybody is crystal clear. I am not. 
As I understand it, the tobacco companies will be required under law to pay into a trust fund, $15 billion in the first year, growing to $23 billion. If I were to make an inquiry, I suspect, of the managers of the bill right now as to what is in this bill, I am not sure I would like the answer. 
What we have been doing since the bill was introduced is we have been deciding how we are going to allocate that money. As I understand it, the amendment of the Senator from Texas, which was accepted, will allocate a piece of that money for tax cuts, and the amendment of the Senator from Georgia will allocate a piece of that $15 billion to $23 billion for antidrug efforts, drugs other than nicotine. 
What the Senator from Massachusetts and the Senator from Missouri, Senator Bond, have is an amendment before this body that will allocate an additional amount for child care. What the Senator from Texas is saying is he wants to have all that money undesignated. So do I, only I believe that a substantial portion of the $15 billion to $23 billion needs to be allocated in as unrestricted a fashion as possible to the States so that we can help people who choose to stop smoking stop smoking. 
I appreciate that many Americans do not want to stop smoking. And if they have the freedom to choose, with full disclosure of what is in the substance, fine. Choose, and let the substance do to you what it is going to do. 
However, I have approximately 350,000 Nebraskans who smoke, and they spend about $250 million a year on cigarettes alone, they smoke over 100 million packages of cigarettes a year. My belief is, if we organize this correctly, we can help those who choose to stop smoking stop. 
We now know that nicotine is addictive. That is one of the reasons the tobacco industry was willing, on June 20, 1997, to say that, `We will pay in $15 billion a year as well as a $50 billion punitive damage payment.' Indeed the 37 million documents in the Minnesota case showed far worse. 
Yesterday, as we all know, a case in Florida was decided in the favor of an individual. I listened to a member of the jury this morning on television say he voted to give this individual damages because the tobacco industry is still saying that nicotine is not addictive, still saying it does not produce a powerful physical addiction. 
Now, back when dinosaurs roamed the Earth, I was a pharmacist. That was 1961 to 1965. I went to the University of Nebraska and graduated with a degree in pharmacy. I was given a physical examination by the Government and served time in the Navy, so I did not have a chance to practice very much. But in those days we understood addiction. We were trained to study it. 
So I am impressed with nicotine as a drug, because it crosses the blood-brain barrier and it is a powerful addictive substance. It is not just habit forming; it is as addictive, according to scientists, as cocaine, as heroin, and other drugs that produce such a strong physical pull on an individual that about a month ago a former mayor of Omaha, Gene Leahy, a wonderful human being, announced he is dying of lung cancer; and at the press conference he was smoking a cigarette because he can't stop. It isn't that he is choosing to smoke cigarettes; he has no choice; he is addicted to the nicotine. 
So I have 350,000 people in Nebraska who smoke, who spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year on cigarettes. By my calculations, if they are spending all that money, and if we are asking them to pay all of this additional money to continue to smoke, we ought to at least offer to help those who want to quit, quit. And if we can help them stop smoking--not only are they going to become healthier as a result of that help they are going to be more prosperous because they are not spending money on tobacco anymore. 
I have never been convinced by the arguments that simply raising the price of cigarettes is going to dramatically reduce smoking. Not if you are addicted. What does the price increase of cocaine do to an addict? They just steal the money and buy the substance. If it is an addictive substance, I do not care what the price is--a person is addicted to it--they are going to do what is necessary to buy the product. That is what we are dealing with. 
What we are doing with this piece of legislation, as I see it, is we are nicking away at the money raised as a result of this bill's increase in the price of cigarettes and thereby decreasing the chance we have to help those individuals who want to stop smoking not only become healthier but to become more prosperous. Again, the funds raised by this bill should be spent on reducing the number of people who are smoking in this country. In Nebraska, we should be concerned about reducing dollars spent on cigarettes from say $250 to $200 million--which is a relatively modest though difficult goal to achieve. And while it may not sound like an enormous decrease, it is a quarter of a billion dollars every 5 years into the pockets of those individuals. 
So all the talk about this being a tax increase, to me, is misleading. It takes us in the wrong direction, puts us on the slippery slope of cutting taxes instead of reducing smoking. What we ought to be trying to do is cut people away from an addictive 
 substance that, taken as directed, would decrease their chance of living a long and healthy life and decrease their chance, as well, of getting a shot at the American dream of having a little bit of prosperity. 
One of my friends in life is an extremely conservative businessperson. He will not hire anybody who smokes. I understand that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce opposes this legislation. I am a member of the Chamber of Commerce in my business. I think they are wrong. I think they have looked at this thing only as a tax increase, because some are describing it as that, and they are not understanding that if their employees decrease their addiction to this substance, that they are healthier. And if they are healthier, the cost of their insurance goes down, their absentee rates go down. 
Everybody who has employees working for them wants their employees to be as healthy as possible. The Chamber of Commerce, in my judgment, and the National Restaurant Association are missing the point. If there is cessation money in this bill, I can go to Nebraska and appeal to the business community, to the Nebraska restaurant association, to the Nebraska Chamber of Commerce, and say, `Let's get involved with this cause of helping the people in Nebraska who want to quit, quit.' You say, `Well, that ought to be easy enough to stop.' Mr. President, again, it is addictive, and to stop and to get off an addiction is not an easy thing to do. As a result, it is extremely hard for these people to not pay the price increase being imposed on them--they have a physical need for the product. 
And it is made even more difficult--I have met, on a number of occasions now, with Nebraskans who smoke, especially with young people who smoke; and one of the interesting things that I acquire from those conversations is an answer to the question, `Why don't you just do smoking cessation if you want to stop?' And one of the answers is, it is not only easier, it is cheaper to smoke than to stop smoking. 
Most places where you buy cigarettes, they are right there in the open. They are right there in the open. You can go and buy them for a current per pack price of about $2.50. 
But if you want to stop smoking--as we all know who have had friends who have either been addicted to this substance or addicted to alcohol or addicted to other sorts of substances, who are trying to get off the urge--the desire for this substance comes back. You need much more than just an opportunity to buy. 
But go into a store, go into any store in your home State, and try to buy a smoking cessation kit. No. 1, you are going to find out that it is substantially more expensive than a pack of cigarettes. For lower-income people, who tend to smoke in higher percentages, it is a barrier. And it is especially a barrier as I have talked to young people who say they simply do not have the out-of-pocket money to be able to buy it. So it is easier for them to buy cigarettes. The physical environment for buying smoking cessation kits in stores is more difficult, oftentimes kept under lock and key. 
So as I see this legislation, the original purpose of the legislation was to collect from the tobacco companies a fee, which started at $15 billion, and increased to $23 billion as a result of the Minnesota court decision, to help adults who want to quit, quit as well as to stop young people from smoking. That is a laudable goal--40 percent of my underage teenagers in Nebraska smoke; one out of three of them will die prematurely as a consequence. A very high percentage of them believe they are going to stop, even though all the statistics show that they do not stop because they are addicted. They do not understand the nature of addiction. They do not understand that nicotine is addictive. They have been told otherwise by the tobacco companies for all of these years. 
So, Mr. President, I have heard the distinguished Senator from Texas say that before he will allow a vote on this amendment by Senator Kerry and Senator Bond, which seems like an altogether reasonable amendment to me--at least it puts money into children; he wants an agreement that he is going to get a vote on his amendment. 
Well, I want the same. I am here to say that I will insist on the same, an amendment that allows us to say that this legislation will give each of our States a designated amount of money, that we will know what that amount of money is going to be, for a block grant that will go for smoking prevention and cessation. Let the States decide. I do not believe any of us really understands what it is going to take to get people to stop smoking. I think the people at the community level understand it an awful lot better. 
It is not going to be easy to get the job done. My amendment would create a single block grant, not only to help young people not to smoke, but also to help those who currently smoke to stop. I believe it will make our people not only healthier, as a consequence of getting off an addiction that causes them to have significant health care problems, but it will also make them more prosperous by decreasing the amount of money they are spending on a substance that, taken as directed, will make them unhealthy. 
So the Senator from Texas gave me an excellent idea. I had not intended on doing that when I came to the floor. One of the things I am trying to get to is--as I said earlier, I am confused about what is left in this bill. I understood it in the beginning that it was a $15 billion fee from the tobacco companies, growing to $23 billion; that 26 percent of it was going to be allocated to research; that 16 percent of it was going to be allocated to farmers; that 40 percent of it was going to be allocated to States; and the balance was going to be allocated to public health for education, cessation. As I understand it, of the total amount only 6 percent would go to smoking cessation programs. 
As I said, I had drafted an amendment that would have taken a significant portion--46 percent--of the funds raised by this legislation and given it to the States in a single smoking cessation and prevention block grant. 
I have prepared numbers that show what every single State would get under this block grant designed to work to reduce those people who are addicted to smoking, reduce their health care costs, and increase their prosperity by helping them kick the habit and get off of an addiction that is not only costing them their health but also costing them a great deal of money. 
I will insist on my amendment that will restore the money that was taken out of the $23 billion in the Gramm amendment, that will restore the money that was taken out with the Coverdell amendment, that will restore any other money that is taken out. 
I believe if this bill is going to be effective, if it is going to help us organize the coalitions at the community level to help Americans become healthier and more prosperous, we have to help especially those adults who are addicted to a substance that is extremely difficult to kick. 
One of the most frustrating things I am dealing with right now on this piece of legislation is I don't know what is in it. I believe before we proceed further with any additional amendments we need to know how that $15 to $23 billion is allocated. I heard some who are arguing in favor of the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Texas having to do with the marriage penalty, that we would still have 40 percent going to the States. It is 40 percent of a much smaller number. Forty percent of the people on the floor of this chamber is a much smaller number than forty percent of the people in this country. 
My math tells me the best way to look at this is to start off and say, $15 billion coming from the tobacco companies, growing to $23 billion, how much is going to be designated under this law for various items? At this stage of the game, I am not able to get an answer. I understand that the managers of the bill are going to try to crunch the numbers and give us an answer, but I don't think we can seriously consider it unless we presume we will accept every single amendment and write the bill in conference, which I think is a bad way of doing things. 
Our most distinguished Senator, George Norris, served in this body for a number years. He went back to Nebraska, hating the conference committee--hating the process by which House and Senate differences are resolved. We keep hearing that the problems with this bill can be fixed in conference, that a conference committee will take care of them. That is undemocratic. We should not be writing a piece of legislation as important as this one in a conference committee. I think it is a very bad thing to do, and I think we need to consider every single amendment that is brought down here as seriously as possible, based upon an understanding of what is in the bill. 
I do not know what is in this bill right now. I do not know how the $15 to $23 billion is being allocated. I know every single amendment that has been passed has changed that allocation, but I don't know what we are left with. I knew prior but I don't know now. I am hopeful we are able to get that. 
I will declare, as the Senator from Texas did, that before we have a vote on the Kerry-Bond amendment, which I support, I want to vote on my amendment which will take this bill back to what I think it was originally intended to do, which is to reduce addiction in the United States of America on a substance called nicotine, that we discovered on the 20th of June, 1997, is addictive. 
For those who understand the nature of addiction, it is a very serious public health problem. I thought we were going to try to solve a very serious public health problem. I thought we were going to try to empower our citizens to participate in solving that problem, as well. I hope that at some point in this debate we are able to get back to that. 
As I said, I appreciate very much that there is a lot of enthusiasm to move this thing along. I read in the paper we have dealt with this controversial tax issue and all that is left is the controversial farm provision--we just deal with that thing and this thing will move out and put pressure on the House then to pass it. All of that legislative process confuses me, let alone confuses the people I represent. What they are not confused about is their desire to have an opportunity to improve their health and improve their prosperity through this legislation. As I see it, we decrease the chances of that happening with the amendments that have been agreed to thus far. 
I have come to the floor to ask for two things, and I hope at some point I can get them. One, what is in the bill? How is that $15 to $23 billion allocated? How much goes to the reduction in tax in the marriage penalty and whatever else was in the Gramm amendment? How much of it goes now to fight the war on drugs? For gosh sakes, we don't have the political courage to put enough money in the drug war on our own without taking it from this bill--I don't understand that, frankly. How much is now going to the war on drugs? How much will be going to child care under the Kerry-Bond amendment? I want to know what the lay of the land is. 
Second, I will insist, as the Senator from Texas has just done, that my amendment be considered as well, that we convert this bill into what it was intended to do in the first place, and that is to give our people at the community level the opportunity to fight this war against nicotine addiction. I believe when we win this war, this piece of legislation is going to be seen as a very important piece of legislation. But if we don't win this war, if all we do is go home and issue press releases saying I cut your taxes, I gave you some more money for this and some more money for that, then it seems to me, Mr. President, that whatever else it is that we get done through those peripheral efforts, we will have not empowered the people in our States and our communities to be able to fight a battle that we now know--and, indeed, I argue one of the problems we are having is we don't know the full ramifications and details of all of the new information that we have since the 20th of June, 1997--about the seriousness of this health care problem. 
I am hopeful, as I said, that not only can I get the information about what is in the bill right now, but I will hopefully not offend too many by insisting, as the Senator from Texas has, that my amendment be given an opportunity to be voted on at the same time that the Kerry-Bond amendment is considered. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the Conference Report to the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1998 (ISTEA). During this period of tremendous economic growth, I believe investing in the nation's transportation infrastructure should be one of our highest priorities. I am pleased to offer my support to the passage of this legislation. 
Mr. President, despite my support for the improvements in the transportational infrastructure that will occur as a result of this bill, I have strong concerns about one of the funding sources contained in this legislation. I do not believe that we should take money from veterans disability programs to be spent building roads. At a time in which the veterans hospitals in my state are experiencing budgetary shortfalls, I am troubled about transferring funds away from the Veterans Administration (VA). We in the United States have a long-standing commitment to providing benefits and healthcare to those who have served our country in the Armed Forces. In my opinion we should be working to strengthen that commitment, not weaken it through budgetary slight of hand. 
The issue of providing compensation to veterans for tobacco-related illnesses is one which the Congress must take closer look at in the coming months. During consideration of the FY99 Budget Resolution, I voted in favor of an amendment that requires the Veterans Administration, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the General Accounting Office (GAO) to jointly study the VA General Counsel's determination regarding compensation for tobacco-related illnesses. I fully expect Congress will conduct a detailed examination of the results of this study and will engage in full debate before any change in permanent law is enacted. Regardless of the ultimate outcome of that debate, any savings as a result of a change in VA compensation policy should be redirected into VA health care and benefits programs, not into transportation infrastructure. 
Mr. President, despite my concern about this funding provision, I will vote in favor of this Conference Report because I believe today's investment in roads and transit systems lays the groundwork for economic growth for decades to come. The Senate's passage of this legislation will improve the safety of our roads, create jobs, spur economic activity and give more Americans a shot at the American Dream. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I stand today to join Chairman Shelby in presenting the nomination of Ms. Joan Dempsey to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence for Community Management. 
The President has chosen well. In my view, there is no one in the country more qualified to be Deputy DCI for Community Management than Joan Dempsey. I recall when Congress created these new confirmable positions there was concern voiced in some quarters that they would be filled by political people rather than by professionals. Ms. Dempsey proves the concern groundless. In fact, she is the consummate intelligence professional. She has managed a major national intelligence budget. She has brought together the strands of different intelligence disciplines to produce finished intelligence to support our military. She has overseen all the national intelligence agencies which are also combat support agencies of the Defense Department. She knows this business. 
Community management means allocating resources and work among the different agencies in the optimistically-titled `intelligence community,' and then combining the product of different agencies and disciplines into a piece of intelligence that helps keep the country safe. The Director of Central Intelligence has the responsibility to perform this function for national intelligence, and he has a staff to help him do it. Congress has believed for several years that he needed the clout of several Presidentially-appointed, Senatorially-confirmed officials to help him execute this management responsibility, and today we consider the nominee for the first and most senior of these positions. 
Success in this position will require the full range of management traits, but professional knowledge will probably be the most necessary: knowing the strengths and limitations of each agency in the community, knowing the technologies to improve analysis, production, and dissemination, knowing the needs of the many and varied customers for intelligence, from the President right down to the combat pilots getting briefed for a mission. You don't get this kind of knowledge out of a book. You get it from years of experience and the constant challenges of the real world of intelligence. Ms. Dempsey has that experience and has met those challenges. 
Intelligence is an essential element of our national power. Intelligence has always had the task of warning our policymakers and our military so they can deter war. Intelligence is also a force multiplier for our military, particularly now that intelligence rides and guides America's smart weapons. Really complete intelligence coverage provides a sense of American omniscience in the minds of our adversaries, and this sense alone can have a deterrent effect. We are sometimes well short of omniscience, as in the recent case of India's nuclear tests. But knowledge superiority should be our constant goal, and the position for which Ms. Dempsey has been nominated has a central role in achieving it. 
Technology has changed, the threats have changed, but the requirement for the best intelligence is as acute as ever. I am certain Ms. Dempsey will help us achieve that goal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, there are an awful lot of us who are now, as we head through the deliberation of this bill and the various amendments being offered--and, to be clear, I voted, on the budget resolution, in favor of the amendment being offered now by the Senator from New Hampshire. I will disclose, though, that I do not know how I am going to vote on the same amendment because I want to get a bill. I want the fine work that Senator McCain and the Commerce Committee have done to yield a piece of legislation that the President can sign. I think it is terribly important. There are parts of this bill, on the other hand, that give me a considerable amount of concern. 
First of all, I hope that at some point I can have this discussion in the presence of the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who understands these issues very, very well. 
First of all, I would like to talk about how we got to where we are today. The whole thing began back in 1996. There were a lot of discussions between the attorneys general, led by Michael Moore from the State of Mississippi. A settlement ensued as a result of one company, Liggett, disclosing information. This accelerated rapidly, and on the June 20, 1997, an agreement was reached. An agreement was reached between the tobacco companies and 40 States' attorneys general, and the settlement reached is very important for this debate because a number of things were in that settlement. 
First of all, there was a stipulation. The tobacco industry has said that nicotine is addictive. I know a bit about addiction. I was a University of Nebraska graduate of the College of Pharmacy. I practiced pharmacy for a while. I remember in 1965 waiting in a Lincoln pharmacy for the opportunity to have my character molded by the U.S. Navy, having passed a physical examination provided by my Government. I was practicing pharmacy. 
Remember, there was a great debate going on at that time in this country not just about Medicare but the regulation of drugs. At that time, in 1965, the most rapidly moving pharmaceutical in our store was a drug called Dexadrine, among other amphetamines. It is a very highly potent stimulant. At the time, the industry was saying it was habit forming, not addictive. 
In 1965, prior to the enactment of changes in the law that increased the power of the FDA--and I point out to colleagues that I believe perhaps the most important section of this bill is title I, which gives the FDA increased authority to regulate tobacco and tobacco products. The tobacco industry stipulated and agreed that nicotine is addictive on June 27, 1997. That should not be in dispute today. 
In 1965, Dexadrine was moving very rapidly with a powerful capacity to addict, and it was addicting a lot of people. We had to fill prescriptions for Seconal and phenobarbital just so people could get to sleep at night after taking this stuff. After this regulation went into effect, we saw a dramatic change in the accessibility to this particular drug. It went from being a very highly used medication to where, today, you would be lucky to see, even in a high-volume store, 100 Dexadrine a year. Today, it is only allowed to be used for narcolepsy. 
Mr. President, a couple of weeks ago I had a meeting with some high school students at Burke High. I talked as well to other young people who are smoking. About 7 to 12 of these young people were smoking. What is quite apparent to me, Mr. President--and my suspicions are, though I have not polled it and I don't have accurate information--my guess is that most people in Nebraska, or a large percentage of people, don't understand that the landscape changed last June 20 with the tobacco industry saying yes, nicotine is addictive. They don't understand what being addicted means. They don't understand that there is a physical need and withdrawal symptoms associated with individuals who try to stop. Certainly, these young people did not understand what it means to be addicted. Indeed, when I asked them if they expected to be smoking when they reached adulthood, the majority of them said no, they did not expect to be--even though we now know that 90 percent of the people who smoke today started smoking when they were young. 
The fact that we now know that nicotine is addictive and the tobacco industry is stipulating in their settlement that it is, it is an important and relevant fact, because what happens now is that we are transformed from dealing with an issue that has to do with personal freedom; we are now dealing with an issue that has to do with this question: Are we going to make an effort to save lives? In addition to being addicted, they are addicted to a substance that contains toxins, including carbon monoxide and other chemicals, which, if taken as directed, will result in the premature death of 1 out 36 people who start smoking, as well as all kinds of other health problems associated with tobacco. 
So I want to begin, as I evaluate--and all colleagues should--whether to vote for the McCain bill, to understand that the industry agreed to the FDA regulation on June 27, 1997, as a consequence of the effort of Michael Moore and 39 other State attorneys general, and a settlement was reached. What the Commerce Committee has done is report out almost everything that was in that settlement. The tobacco industry agreed to pay $15 billion a year. Indeed, they agreed to pay $50 billion in punitive damages. 
At the time, I remember in the aftermath of the settlement--and it seems like a hundred years ago, but it was less than a year ago--the big debate was: Would that $50 billion be tax deductible? Would the companies be able to deduct it from their income? Or would it have to be a post-tax payment? But it is $50 billion in punitive damages. They agreed to pay $15 billion more. What Senator McCain and the Commerce Committee have done is say, since that time, a number of things have happened. We had a settlement in Texas, a settlement in Florida, and, most important, a settlement in Minnesota, which has the tobacco industry not only stipulating everything they did before, but releasing some 36,000 documents, most of which are still unread, my guess is, by most Members of Congress--certainly me. 
But just reinforcing for our citizens the idea, yes, I knew it was addictive; and, yes, I've been targeting your kids; and, yes, I've been doing some other things to try to increase sales, even though I understand that it is a terribly big public health problem. 
The Commerce Committee has said we now have them agreeing to a 10-percent increase in Minnesota, and, instead of $15 billion, we are going to ramp it up to $23 billion a year. When we talk to citizens at home, please don't leave a citizen in your State with the illusion that somehow Congress or the Commerce Committee on their own came up with this number. This was agreed to by the tobacco industry on June 20, 1997. And, after the settlement in Minnesota, it seems to me the Commerce Committee is well within reason to say that instead of $15 billion it ought to be $23 billion. That is where we are. 
Mr. President, the next thing I have to ask is, What are we going to do with it? What is the purpose? Where are we going? What is the idea that is most important with this legislation? For me, the most important idea--it may be different for others--is I want to save lives. I think that is what we are talking about. One out of three who start smoking dies prematurely. In Nebraska, $250 million is spent just on cigarettes; 100 million packs of cigarettes are sold every single year in Nebraska. I want to decrease the number of people who are buying cigarettes. If I can get 50,000 of the 350,000 Nebraskans who smoke, if I can help them stop smoking, not only do I save the lives, I save the money. 
All of this conversation about a tax increase and being concerned about low-income Americans and the taxes they are going to be paying, if they would do this bill right, we would help people stop smoking and reduce their out-of-pocket spending for tobacco, not to mention the out-of-pocket spending for health care, the out-of-pocket spending that occurs as a result of not being able to go to work, and the out-of-pocket spending for some other things. 
I ask Members: Have you ever talked to anybody who has been able, after a long period of time, to quit smoking how they feel? Are they happy? Are they glad? The answer is always yes. They can do more. They and their kids are enjoying life better. They feel healthier. They have more money in their pocket as a consequence of not having the addiction as a part of their life. They do not say, `Gee, I am mad at you because you helped me stop smoking.' They are glad. 
This piece of legislation, as far as I see it, that we are debating right now is an opportunity for me to go home and say, `We are going to try to save lives, not just to try to prevent young people from smoking'--we have about 30,000 people in Nebraska who are underage who are smoking cigarettes--but also to go to the adults, the 350,000 adults who are buying 100 million packs of cigarettes a year, and help them stop smoking, to save their lives, to decrease their out-of-pocket spending for tobacco, and to give them a shot at the American dream--at least connected with tobacco--and able to say, `I am healthier and, as a consequence of being healthier, happier as well.' 
There are two provisions of this bill--I don't know if the Senator from Arizona wants to respond to any of them or not--that concern me. The first is the provision for the tobacco farmers. I will wait until my friend from Kentucky comes down to the floor. I will have a chance. The Senator from Indiana has an amendment down there. 
First of all, I want to say that without the Senator from Kentucky and the Senator from South Carolina, there would be no provisions in here for tobacco farmers. I agree with them; there need to be some provisions for tobacco farmers to help them as we move from the old era, when we were neutral as to the health impact of this naturally grown product, to a point where we now say we want to help people stop smoking because it is killing them, it is ruining their lives and ruining their health. As we go from that point, it seems to me reasonable that we ought to have some transition payments for Americans who earn their living by growing tobacco. 
There are about 740,000 acres of tobacco acreage nationwide. To put that in perspective, one of the reasons I am concerned about it is, in Nebraska we have about 22.5 million acres for other crops, and 1.5 billion nationwide; 740,000 acres of tobacco quota against about 1.5 billion acres for all other agricultural products. Freedom to Farm, which I think we ought to pattern the tobacco language after, Freedom to Farm was about $36 billion total for 1.5 billion acres. 
It seems to me we ought to be looking for some way to pattern the tobacco farmer portion on what we have done for other farmers in this country as we transition into an era where we say, `You are going to have the freedom to make your own decisions, plus the market will allow you to decide how you are going to plant and what you are going to plant.' I have a very difficult time voting for something that has $28 billion for tobacco farmers when I did $36 billion for all farmers, including mine in Nebraska. We paid out at that time about 10 percent of the value of the crop. Ten percent of the value of the crop was one of the bases to come up to use for the payment. 
I hope again I am able to work with the Senator from Kentucky, because I applaud his work, the work of the Senator from South Carolina, and the work of the Senators from Virginia and North Carolina. Lots of people have had input into this to make certain we do something to help the tobacco farmer. The question is, How much are we going to help? 
I am troubled by that provision, I say to my friend, the chairman of the committee, who is trying to figure out how to manage this across the line. I hope to be constructive in getting that done. I voted against putting another 40 cents on. I will probably vote against the amendment of the Senator from New Hampshire, even though I voted for it before when it was on the budget resolution, because it seems to me that you have increased the cap on liability. I think it was 6.5 in the first bill. It is now $8 billion a year. That is a lot of money. We are not giving the tobacco companies--I think people said we don't want to give tobacco companies special treatment. They will be required under this legislation to pay $23 billion a year into a tobacco trust fund. That is not my idea of giving somebody in the private sector special treatment. It seems to me that it is a reasonable tradeoff in order to be able to fight this battle. 
To me, the most exciting thing about this legislation, now that we have the full truth about what tobacco can do, is I will be able to go home and say this legislation will enable us to organize community-based efforts to help not just our children keep from starting to smoke but also help in my State 350,000 adults who currently smoke whose lives, in all likelihood, are going to be shorter and they will be less healthy as a consequence. 
That leads me to the second concern I have. Again, I have an amendment on the tobacco farmer portion, depending on the disposition of the Lugar amendment, that will place a greater emphasis on prevention and smoking cessation. I really have come to a point now where I say what makes it work for me is to be able to go home to Nebraska and say this bill helps save lives. That is what we are doing. If I can get that done, if it enables me to save lives, it seems to me I have something that I can make work at home. 
To that end, the amendment that I have prepared--and I am not going to lay it down right now because we have one that we are debating--would take the money and, instead of ramping up from I think $15 billion initially up to $23 billion a year, the breakdown is, 40 percent of that money goes to the States, 22 percent of that money goes to NIH, 22 percent of that money goes for smoking cessation, education, and international trafficking--to stop international trafficking--and, as I understand it, 16 percent I think is left that goes for tobacco farmers. As I said, I think that 16 percent is too high. We have prepared an amendment, depending upon the disposition of the Lugar amendment and depending upon my ability to be able to negotiate about the Senators who worked hard on this provision. 
But I believe what would also increase the likelihood of being able to save lives at home, being able to make this thing not just a situation where, as a result of increased Federal regulation through FDA, as a result of the tobacco industry raising the price because of the fees they will be paying into this national trust fund, another way to do it would be to take that 40 percent that is allocated to the States and add the 6 percent that ends up being estimated for prevention in the third area, and consolidating all that into a block grant that would go for smoking prevention and cessation, insist in the language of the law that the Governors put together a community-based organization to come up with a plan to help people stop smoking and have HHS approve that plan. I think it would allow us to have a steady stream of money that would come into each one of our States. 
I am uncomfortable about having anybody but Members of Congress deciding how money is going to be spent. I love my Governor. I love all Governors. They are all great Americans. But as far as I am concerned, the Constitution gives me the authority to vote to raise taxes and vote to spend money, and I think that is what we ought to be doing. 
As concerned as I am about getting more money into Medicaid, the thing that I have to do in order to make this successful is I have to have those people out there who are smoking stop smoking. 
So I would at some point come to the floor and offer an amendment. I hope to have some conversations with the chairman and the ranking member on this, because I think we could improve the bill substantially if our goal is to save lives and reduce the number of people who are smoking, not just stopping young people from becoming smokers but helping those who are already smoking stop in order to be able to save their lives. It seems to me we ought to consider that the funding language in here needs to be altered and a much greater emphasis placed--indeed, it ought to be the most important emphasis--on smoking cessation programs. 
Let the Governors write a community-based plan. Make them engage the community. It is much more likely at the local level that real answers are going to be found for this problem. It is not as easy as it sounds not just because of addiction but because of other reasons to stop smoking. I think it is much more likely they will come up with plans that work. 
Let us, as a consequence of our concern for public health, work with those community groups to make certain that the money is going in that direction. 
I discussed as well with the managers creating a tobacco scholar through NIH funding for every State. I don't know about other Senators, but I need a lot of help with numbers, with what the research is saying. Not only do we put more money into research, but it is likely that all of us are going to see State-based efforts to reduce smoking, and if we have to scramble around and try to figure out what the data is, to try to figure out what the facts are, it gets difficult to do it. 
So I am here. I say to my friend from Arizona, I like what you have done. You have a good bill, it seems to me, in the Chamber, one that if we can get it passed, get beyond all the problems of price increases and concern for the poor, and so forth, I say to my friend from Arizona, will enable you to say you have saved millions of lives as a consequence of this law. 
That will be my hope. And, indeed, I believe it is reasonable to assume, as I look at the language of this law, that we will as a result of helping people not smoke to begin with and stop smoking if they have made that decision and became addicted to nicotine, their lives will be happier and longer and healthier as a consequence of this legislation. Thus, there is an urgency to do it, an urgency to make sure we don't make the perfect the enemy of the good. There are lots of good amendments coming up. I have some ideas. All of them are not going to be incorporated. We still have the House to get through and the conference to get through. So I praise very highly the fine work the chairman has done on this thing, and I hope the wishes of the majority leader will be heard and that we are able to get this thing done before we get out of here for the Memorial Day recess. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, writer Willa Cather fashioned from her experiences uncommon stories of the character of Nebraska's people and landscapes. It is my pleasure to pay tribute to Cather because, like many Nebraskans, her writing continues to inspire me. 
This year, we celebrate three major anniversaries in Cather's life. Seventy-five years ago, Cather won the Pulitzer Prize for `One of Ours.' One of her best known novels, `My Antonia,' will have its 80th anniversary on September 21st. Finally, December 7th marks the 125th anniversary of her birth. 
Cather's writings illustrate a Nebraska of stark landscapes, epic frontiers, and mysterious grandeur. Her characters are often placed in a Nebraska panorama to which Cather gave breathtaking expression. Shortly after moving from the east to Nebraska at the age of nine, Cather realized that that shaggy grass country had gripped me with a passion I have never been able to shake. It has been the happiness and the curse of my life.' 
For Cather in `My Antonia,' Nebraska is raw and vast, the material out of which countries are made. . . naked as the back of your hand.' Out of the passion she felt for Nebraska's materials, Cather wrote with unparalleled sensitivity about the soil, trees, and wildflowers of the landscape. In The `Song of the Lark,' the cottonwoods are the light-reflecting, wind-loving trees of the desert, whose roots are always seeking water and whose leaves are always talking about it, making the sound of rain.' 
The inhabitants of the land are connected to and determined by this landscape. Thus, in many of Cather's novels, the character is a pioneer, whether literally or as artist, one breaking new ground, finding his or her own path, creating his or her own landscape. In the hands of Cather's sparse and evocative prose, questions of the pioneering self shaped by experience and tested by difficulty indicate Cather's commitment through her characters to integrity. 
Readers continue to feel the special relationship between the wonder of Nebraska and the dignity of its people through Cather's well known novels `O Pioneers, My Antonia, One Of Ours,' and `Death Comes for the Archbishop,' as well as her poetry and other stories. I invite you to join me in honoring Willa Cather on the 75th anniversary of her Pulitzer Prize, the 80th anniversary of `My Antonia,' and in memory of her 125th birthday. 
In `The Wild Land,' Cather writes, The history of every country begins in the heart of a man or a woman.' Thanks to Cather's artistry, we continue to be moved by the written recordings of Nebraska's history. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I thank both the Senator from Arizona and the Senator from Massachusetts for allowing me to speak. 
I have come to the floor to speak about the tobacco bill. I began several months ago to have conversations with Nebraskans about this legislation. The first question I was asked is, Why do we need it? What has happened here? All of a sudden we have a $368 billion to a $516 billion piece of legislation being introduced and people want to know how we got to where we are today. 
I would like to describe, at least as I see it, how we got to where we are today in May of 1998, from a point just as recently as 2 years ago when there was no piece of legislation on the floor even remotely approaching something like this. `Why all of a sudden is Congress taking on something like this,' is the question I get asked. I will try to give Nebraskans an answer. 
The second question I get asked is, `What are we going to do? What is the purpose here?' On behalf of 1,600,000 Nebraskans, I will describe what this law is attempting to do, what is the piece of legislation which Senator McCain and Senator Kerry have brought before this body all about. 
The short answer to the question `How did we get to this point?' is that there was a potential lawsuit. There was litigation that was being proposed by States' attorneys general against tobacco companies. There was an attempt through the discovery process to get internal tobacco industry documents, and one of the tobacco companies said, `We'll provide you the information you need to proceed with your case because we are concerned that what we know is going to be discovered anyway, that there was an effort to withhold information from the American people.' 
What happened, in addition to some changes in State law, is that on the 20th of June, 1997, there was an agreement--it was not even a year ago--with 40 attorneys general in the United States and the tobacco industry. 
What they agreed to, Mr. President, on the 20th of June 1997, is very important, especially now that the tobacco companies have broken off from the settlement and are now advertising against this legislation in our States. 
Again, I emphasize that the reason we are debating this tobacco bill today is not because the tobacco industry is afraid of Congress, and what we may do to them. Rather, they are afraid of 12 faceless men and women of a jury. They are worried about the evidence being introduced and now stipulated in court, showing that the tobacco industry knew nicotine was addictive and lied about it. They were, and still are worried about what a jury would do with this evidence. They were, and still are scared that a jury will end up costing them a whole lot of money. That was the power that produced this offer to settle at $368 billion. 
That begs a question that Nebraskans need to try to answer. What was in that initial offer to settle? What were the tobacco companies willing to do back on the 20th of June 1997? 
First of all, they agreed to pay $368 billion over 25 years. They said they would make annual payments starting at $10 billion, going up to $15 billion by year 5, and every year thereafter. 
Although they do not spell it out in terms of a per-pack price increase like you hear them advertising against today, to make the $15 billion-per-year payment, the tobacco industry would have raised the price of cigarettes by approximately 62 cents a pack. Less than a year ago, they, not Congress, were going to raise the price of cigarettes by 62 cents a pack. Yet now, less than a year later, they have launched this huge advertising campaign trying to convince you that Congress is the bad guy trying to raise your taxes. They did this to settle lawsuits that they were afraid of. 
Indeed, the next amendment that we are going to talk about is their liability. They were concerned about future liability, and they were willing to pay out $15 billion a year, costing smokers about 62 cents a pack, so they would not have to worry about it anymore. 
They also agreed to pay $50 billion up front in punitive damages, meaning for all their past wrongs that they knew they were guilty of about misleading the American people, about nicotine's addictiveness, and marketing to our children. 
Next, they agreed to let the FDA regulate nicotine as a drug. Next, they agreed to pay huge fines if goals of reducing teen smoking were not met. And, finally, they agreed to restrict their advertising and marketing to youth. 
I say, Mr. President, that almost all of what I have just described is in this tobacco bill. That is what the Commerce Committee has voted out of Committee, and that is what we are debating on the floor today. Yet, less than a year after the tobacco settlement, the tobacco industry is spending millions of dollars trying to convince the American people that they had nothing to do with any of this and that Congress is the bad guy. This is the message they have paid lots of money to convince the people of. I have seen it in their television ads, on postcards that are being mailed in to my office, and from the thousands of phone calls that I have received. Everything that they are objecting to, and convincing others to object to, they agreed to back on the 20th of June 1997. 
A lot has happened since that settlement, Mr. President, that has caused significant change to this legislation. First, the tobacco industry settled a suit in Florida for $11 billion, they settled a suit in Texas for $15.3 billion--but the settlement that really changed the level of the playing field that we are on today was the one that happened 12 days ago in Minnesota on the 8th of May. After 3 months of a closely watched trial, just hours before the jury was going to get the case, Attorney General Hubert Humphrey III and the tobacco industry settled the case for $6.5 billion. 
There were lots of firsts in this settlement. This was the first settlement with a health insurance provider, in this case Blue Cross and Blue Shield, getting $469 million of the $6.5 
billion. 
This was the first settlement where the tobacco industry signed a consent promising not to misrepresent the health hazards of smoking. 
And perhaps most significantly, this was the first settlement where the State received more money than it would have collected under the $368 billion settlement last June. 
The $6.1 billion they settled on 12 days ago is 50 percent more than the $4 billion they would have received under last summer's settlement. This is significant. This is the justification for going from 62 cents to $1.10 per pack. This is the justification for increasing the total amount that we are asking the tobacco industry to pay into the tobacco trust. 
Already, the tobacco industries have said they will raise prices to help defray some of their legal expenses. Indeed, in the past 9 months cigarette prices have been raised about 20 percent to help offset the tobacco industry's legal bills. 
Again, Mr. President, I tell you the history of this bill because it is important to understand how we got to where we are today. A single tobacco company broke away from the rest and disclosed information that enabled us to get a settlement on the 20th of June 1997. There has been additional settlements in Texas, in Florida, and most significantly in Minnesota that increased the dollar amounts from the base level agreement that was formed on the 20th of June 1997. 
Mr. President, the next issue to discuss, this bill and the goals of this bill, is a bit more difficult because things are changing at such a rapid pace. The way I see it, from talking to Nebraskans about this, is that the goal of this legislation is clear. We need to prevent teenagers from starting to smoke and to help those Americans who do smoke and want to quit. 
Why, Mr. President? Well, there are a couple of reasons why. The most important one of which is that we now know, stipulated in court documents, that nicotine is addictive. It is not habit forming, Mr. President. It is addictive. And the qualities of the addictive property of nicotine, taken together with the toxins that are contained in the tobacco itself, create a tremendous public health problem. 
I have 352,000 Nebraskans who smoke. I do not just want to raise the prices on those Nebraskans to try to decrease the amount of consumption, along with FDA regulation and advertising and other sorts of things, I want to make certain that the money in this bill helps them stop smoking. 
Now, that should be our crusade. That should be our cause. Tobacco kills prematurely nearly 400,000 people every year. Approximately 2700 of these are Nebraskans. 
Tobacco consumption produces tremendous health problems for the 352,000 Nebraskans who smoke. And the best way for me to mitigate the problem associated with an increased price is to give them a tax cut by helping them stop smoking so their medical costs and lost wages from missed work will be lower. My belief is, as we examine not only what this legislation does in terms of regulation, in terms of advertising, in terms of restrictions on smoking in public places to make sure that we reduce the number of people who become involuntary smokers as a result of inhaling secondhand smoke, is that we pay attention to how the money is spent. This is so we have some confidence that in our individual States those citizens out there who are currently smoking, who are addicted to nicotine as a consequence, that those individuals have a chance to get off this addiction that is reducing the quality of their health and decreasing their life spans. 
Mr. President, I examined the numbers in Nebraska. And 25 percent of the men in Nebraska smoke; 19 percent of women smoke; 39 percent of all my teenagers smoke. Nebraskans without a college degree are nearly twice as likely to smoke as those with a college degree. A third of Nebraskans with an income of $15,000 or less smoke compared to only 15 percent of those who earn $50,000 or more. 
Again, Mr. President, tobacco is killing my people. And 2,700 of the people who prematurely die every single year in the United States of America are Nebraskans. It is addictive. It causes a physical compulsion, a physical need. Taken in small doses, nicotine produces pleasurable feelings that make the smoker want to smoke more. A majority of smokers who become dependent on nicotine will suffer both physical and psychological withdrawal symptoms when they stop smoking. 
Their symptoms are going to include nervousness, headaches, irritability and difficulty in sleeping, among other things. 
Mr. President, a couple of weeks ago I met with 10 or 12 high school students in Burke High School in Omaha, NE. And I talked to them about this problem of addiction. I think about 7 of the 12 were smokers. One of the students explained to me that `A cigarette,' she said, `is my friend.' She is 16 years old. `A cigarette,' she said, `is my friend . . . it is always there for me: When I'm driving in my car, when I'm stressed out, when I'm going through a crisis . . . cigarettes don't go out of town, I can count on them no matter what.' 
I asked about 100 students to fill out a questionnaire about tobacco. And one of the more disturbing results in their answers was that the overwhelming majority of the current smokers said that although they smoked today at age 16, and though some may continue smoking until they are 18, the overwhelming majority of these students said, `We're going to quit.' 
Well, Mr. President, because unbeknownst to them--and until recently the tobacco companies were not stipulating that nicotine is addictive; now it is universally recognized that it is--unbeknownst to these students, they are addicted. They have a physical craving for something and it is going to be very difficult for them to stop. Unbeknownst to them, 90 percent of the 352,000 Nebraskans who smoke started smoking when they were teenagers. That is when it began. 
So unbeknownst to them, they may think they are going to quit, but unless we intervene, and unless we help them--and hopefully through this legislation we can help them--they are going to have a heck of a time kicking this addiction. 
Mr. President, cigarette smoking is harmful. Cigarette smoking, we now know, is not only addictive, but taken as directed it is likely to decrease your life span, likely to shorten not only your ability to work, but shorten your time on Earth as well. 
Mr. President, I intend during the course of the debate on this legislation to focus my attention on a number of things. 
One, this legislation must prevent teen smoking. It must reduce the amount of teen smoking. I think perhaps one of the most important things we are doing is giving FDA the authority to regulate. 
I was practicing pharmacy back when dinosaurs roamed the Earth in 1965, when Congress was debating whether or not to regulate Dexedrine, 15 milligrams. This was a weight loss pill. It was the most rapidly moving pharmaceutical in my drugstore in 1965. You could get a prescription from a doctor and refill it every other day if you wanted to for 500 Dexedrine. And the pharmaceutical industry was saying, `No. It is habit forming; it is not addictive.' 
Today, through FDA regulation, Dexedrine 15 milligrams is available only for narcolepsy, and only small amounts are sold. I think the most likely reduction of teen smoking is going to occur not through the price increase, but through FDA regulation. 
In addition, Mr. President, I intend to bring amendments to the floor to say that we have to make certain that we have community-based efforts in our States to reduce smoking of the adults out there who are also addicted. It has to do that. It cannot be a top-down effort. It has to be a community-based effort. The citizens are more likely to know what needs to be done. I believe every single State needs to have some kind of a research scholar connected to NIH to lead us in this effort. 
This is a tremendous public health problem. It has come upon us, the history of the bill and the seriousness of this problem, relatively quickly. I am hopeful we can make certain this legislation gives us a fighting chance in my State, at least not just of increasing prices and increasing the regulatory action, but of engaging the citizens themselves and the smokers themselves in a serious challenge of trying to break themselves from this habit. 
Finally, I know we are going to be debating on this floor the provisions relating to the tobacco farmers. I am of the opinion that tobacco farmers need some assistance. It was not in the original settlement. I praise Senator Ford and Senator Hollings for their work in trying to get provisions in there, but I believe these provisions are too generous and we need to scale them back. It is difficult for me in a State that grows corn, soybeans, wheat, barley, and lots of other products--under the Freedom to Farm Act they are getting substantially less than what tobacco farmers will be getting out of the program. I can make a case tobacco farmers ought to get more, but I cannot make a case they ought to be given all that is in this bill. 
It is my hope that during the course of this constructive debate we are able to pass a piece of legislation that will increase regulation, that will increase the price, will increase our involvement in our community and decrease the consumption and the addiction to a substance which is killing our people. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I want to ask the Senator a question. First of all, I don't think there is anybody in the Senate who has been more consistently critical of the Central Intelligence Agency and has been more diligent in trying to change the way we classify documents. I find both of them to be a bit connected to his comments. 
One of the concerns I have in all this is that we look for a scapegoat. Now, one of the things that citizens need to understand is that increasingly we are getting our intelligence through open sources. That is good because when you get your information through open sources there is a debate. Is what somebody said true or not true--and you debate such things. 
I quite agree with what the Senator said earlier that for us to be going at the CIA right now because they didn't report this is a little ridiculous. All we have to do is read articles of John Burns over a half dozen months. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. If we head in the direction of finding a scapegoat here what we will miss is an opportunity to debate what our policy ought to be toward the largest democracy on Earth. In addition to the other things that the Senator said about India, this is also the largest democracy. A billion people live in India. Not an easy country to govern. 
They have a Hindu nationalist party that campaigned on a platform, and that platform was that nuclear testing would resume. They were not secretive about that. They did not operate in the shadows on that. They were upfront and they followed through. 
It seems to me we should blame ourselves for not paying attention to what is going on there and blame ourselves for not giving enough consideration or concern about the direction of the largest democracy on Earth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am at the end of my question, Mr. President. 
I just wanted, in addition to making the point that the distinguished Senator has been very critical of the CIA--and I think he is quite right in this particular instance to say though we may need some questions answered, the biggest question is why didn't anybody in either the administration or in this Congress notice that the Hindu nationalist party had campaigned on a promise to make India a nuclear power. What does the distinguished Senator from New York think this Congress needs to do to make certain that we are paying attention in the aftermath of these sanctions to what India is doing, to make certain that, first, we don't miss an opportunity to get them to ratify this treaty, and in addition, to get them to do a number of other things that not only would be in their best interests, but to be in our best interests, as well, since a third of the Earth's population lives between India and China in this very, very volatile region to which we obviously have not paid a sufficient amount of attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Personally, I think it would be a waste of money to direct the CIA to read the New York Times and report to us what is contained in there relevant to any part of the world, let alone in India. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I know the distinguished Senator from Pennsylvania has come here for other reasons. He used to be chairman of the Intelligence Committee. I know from listening to him that he has an active interest in this issue as well. I have heard him comment many times. In fact, he asked the administration officials why they don't attempt to resolve the conflicts between India and Pakistan and India and China, and why do we not pay more attention to it. I suspect the Senator from Pennsylvania would rather not spend too much time commenting on it, but by coincidence, we have another individual on the floor who has an active interest in this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my support for the Agriculture Research Reauthorization bill. 
This bill reaffirms our commitment to American agriculture in a number of ways. It reauthorizes existing research programs at our land grant universities and goes one step further in creating a new, competitive research initiative to study some of the most cutting edge agricultural issues of the day: food safety, agricultural biotechnology, precision agriculture and the competitiveness of small and medium sized farms. 
As well, it maintains our commitment to the federal crop insurance program, perhaps the most successful public-private partnership our government has to boast of. 
And just as importantly, it restores our commitment to legal immigrants who are elderly, disabled, or children. Restoring food stamp benefits to these groups of people is simply the right thing to do. 
But while I commend the conferees for their work in satisfying many parties with their work on this bill, I rise to say it does not go far enough. 
We have perhaps no more important research need than that of agricultural research. It represents 2% of the total federal research budget. Yet, between today and thirty years from now, we are going to add 5 billion people to the planet. And all those people are going to need to be fed. And they are likely to be fed on less acres, not more. 
The caloric requirement to feed those additional 5 billion people will be more than the caloric consumption for the past 10,000 years. It is a huge increase in consumption requirements. And our research is the key to solving that problem. There is a tremendous amount at stake here for those who worry about peace and prosperity. 
We take this agricultural research for granted. Indeed, we take all of agriculture too much for granted. But agricultural research has added so much value to our productive capacities, as well as to the quality of our lives, that it is ridiculous to be struggling to pay for it as we are right now. 
At the same time, we are going to double the funding for the National Institute of Health, and double the funding for the National Science Foundation. I support both of those things. But it won't do us any good at all to live longer through NIH investments if we short agricultural research and we aren't able to feed ourselves. And that's precisely what will happen if we don't come up with some satisfactory way to guarantee a long-term funding of ag research at higher levels than we have provided in the past.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 was clear; competition and consumer choice are to be the hallmarks of the new telecommunication's market. However, the transition to competition has been anything but clear to consumers. The growing pains of the telecommunications industry have proved to be very confusing to customers who lack full information about the various costs associated with telecommunications services. 
This lack of information is very troublesome for customers who are trying to make sense of the telecommunications market. In order to help consumers through this confusing morass of information, I recently joined Senators Rockefeller and Snowe to introduce S. 1897 the Consumer Protection Act. Today, Senator Dorgan joins us as cosponsor of this legislation in the form of an amendment to S. 1618 the Consumer Anti-Slamming Protection Act. 
Under the provisions of this amendment, if a company chooses to depict charges that are linked to federal policy on their bills, then the company will be required to depict the benefits of that action on the same bill. This requirement allows customers to see what they are paying for so that they can gain a better understanding of the costs associated with a national telecommunications network. 
As we transition from the rigid world of monopoly to a competitive market where consumers have choice, we must make sure that customers have all of the facts. Competition depends upon free flowing information and the Consumer Protection Act gives consumers the facts they need to make good choices in a competitive market. 
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I would like to ask the Senator from Tennessee if he would answer a question. For the purpose of engaging in this debate, does he support having a union rep on the board, an employee rep on the board? That would be an amendment that will come up, I believe, later on, trying the individual on the board. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I appreciate the Senator's conclusion. However, I have reached the opposite conclusion. That really is the question for the body. Do you think an employee representative needs to be on this board? 
Let me tell you why the Restructuring Commission reached the conclusion `yes,' and why the Finance Committee reached the conclusion `yes.' We heard from private sector individuals, as well as public sector people, who have gone through the sorts of things IRS is likely to go through. Let me be clear what the IRS is going to be going through. This is not about some cosmetic changes. 
In this law, we give the Commissioner of the IRS new authorities to restructure the IRS, and we direct the 
Commissioner to restructure to eliminate the old three-tier system. I don't know how familiar everybody is with the three-tier system. There is a national, regional, and a district office. It is a system that was established in 1952. It means that if taxpayers move or decide they want to move from Salina, KS, to Grand Island, NB, which I think would be a sound thing for anybody to do--but if they decide they want to go from Kansas to Nebraska, they are OK. But if they move from, let's say, Chattanooga, TN, to Salina or Grand Island, they are going to be under a new district and regional office. As a consequence, their taxes are going to be handled by entirely different people. 
What the law directs the Commissioner to do and gives him authority to do is organize along functional lines. There is going to be traumatic change for employees--traumatic change. We may have few numbers of people. This kind of restructuring is very difficult to get done. From people both in the public and private sector, individuals who have gone through this, we heard strong advice that an employee representative should be on the Commission. 
For members, the board itself sunsets in 10 years. We may decide we don't need a board in 10 years. We might need a different composition for the board. That is the first question. Do you believe that as a consequence of what the Commissioner has been given--the authority to dramatically restructure this agency--there ought to be an employee representative on the board? The authors of this amendment don't; neither does the Office of Government Ethics. They sent a letter indicating some problems which they had with having a representative on. We accommodated those concerns by putting this language in here. Now the language is being attacked. But the question really is not do you support the language, but do you want a rep on there? If you do, you have to have that representative able to participate in the decisionmaking. 
To be clear, they are not given blanket ethics waivers. They are still under all the same ethics requirements of every other member of the board; indeed, somewhat higher. The annual disclosure requirements of this individual will be greater than for other members of the board. All board members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. If for some reason a member of this Chamber thinks that person should not be confirmed, they can put a hold on it and likely make it impossible for that person to be confirmed. And if the President believes, for any reason at all, this individual is not doing a good job, he or she can be removed by the President. 
So there are lots of checks against problems this individual might have for any reason, including some ethical problems, as I said. All other ethics statutes still fall against this individual. Indeed, we are requiring this individual to disclose more. We have all kinds of situations. We asked the Office of Government Ethics about acceptance and they have made over 600 of them, including the Commissioner of the IRS. The Commissioner, Mr. Rossotti, has private sector holdings, private sector business experience, and does business with the IRS. So the question for us is, oh, my gosh, is he excluded or precluded from serving? The answer is no. We reached a conclusion that we have an overriding interest to have him serve as Commissioner. And so we draft very carefully an agreement that has him doing a certain number of things in order to be able to comply with our ethics laws. 
So I urge colleagues, as they examine this amendment, to understand that no blanket exemption is being granted. 
The authors of the amendment do not want a Treasury employee representative on the board. If you want a Treasury employee representative on the board, you have to have language in there that satisfies the ethical concerns about what will happen when an issue comes up that has an impact upon the people he represents. 
Mr. President, we are granting the Commissioner the authority to reorganize and restructure and get the IRS to operate in a much more efficient fashion, and that will cause traumatic changes inside of the ranks of the IRS. For those who wonder whether or not an employee rep ought to be on there, imagine if we had an oversight board that was going to be making a decision to restructure the Senate and one of the possibilities was, instead of having 100 Members, we have 80. Would we ask to have Members on the board? Obviously, we would. And it would be right to do, and we would have to draft some sort of language to make certain that we wouldn't violate ethics laws as well. 
I hope the Members will reject this amendment. 
I see the distinguished Senator from Michigan is on the floor. I am pleased to yield 2 minutes for him to speak against this amendment as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, briefly, we are doing something that is unprecedented. The distinguished Senator from Alabama says that the Office of Government Ethics is unprecedented. It is the only venture that is unprecedented; never in the history of Government have we created an oversight board with these kinds of powers. And we are doing it in order to be able to restructure the IRS in a relatively short period of time. The implications would be rather traumatic for the employees of the IRS. Every private sector person whom we asked the question of--when you go through restructuring--and every public person we asked the advice of said put the rep on the board. 
This board sunsets in 10 years. We may decide we don't want the board and have another composition. We can revisit it, if you don't want a Treasury employee rep on the board. The Office of Ethics said there are problems here. We have corrected those problems, but they don't want a rep on the board under any circumstances. If you want a rep on the board, you have to vote no on this amendment. Otherwise, this individual is not going to be able to do the job. If you don't have the rep on the board, I think this venture is likely to run aground and not be as successful as all of us want it to be. 
Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time. I urge the defeat of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the amendment was rejected. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, we are down on the Democratic side to just one or two amendments that may require rollcall votes, and those we may be able to work out. We have a longer list on the Republican side. 
Mr. President, may we have order in the Chamber? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am hopeful that on the Republican side, Members will come down and start talking to us or, if we can't work them out, get them offered. Senator Faircloth has an amendment which he is going to offer just as soon as I get two accepted that we have worked out with the chairman. I think we can run through this relatively rapidly. 
The previous amendment that was just defeated is one of the controversial ones. Senator Faircloth has one that is controversial. I think Senator Mack does. There are a few others. After that, most of the controversy is out of this bill. I am hopeful we can get Members to come down here so we don't end up, as the majority leader said, staying here longer than is warranted, given the general agreement that is on the legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send two amendments to the desk and ask for their immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendments be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, these are two amendments on which I worked very closely with the chairman. They deal with two problems, one of which is a longstanding problem that we have had with the Internal Revenue Service, and that is how to deal with taxpayers who are willfully noncompliant. 
This requires the Commissioner to do a study of this issue and report back to the Finance Committee. Members need to understand, approximately the average for all taxpayers is nearly $1,600 per taxpayer for noncompliance, with penalty for willful noncompliance. 
The second amendment came as a consequence of a witness that we had in the hearings that the chairman held, Mr. Earl Epstein of Philadelphia. He was talking about putting teeth in the provision dealing with violations of fair debt collection practices. And at the chairman's suggestion, what we have asked for in this study is that the new Treasury inspector general for tax administration also look at this and provide Congress with a report, an annual report outlining any violations of the fair debt collection practices that we have included in this bill. 
Mr. Epstein notes, this is likely to result in better attention being paid to collection abuses as `no Commissioner would be happy to report significant abuses, to say nothing of awards for damages [or] for failures to enforce proper authority over collection agents.' It is an important amendment. I appreciate the source of it was the chairman's hearings, and I appreciate a chance to work with the chairman to get this worked out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-10-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-11-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I have not seen the amendment yet. Can we get a copy of the amendment before we agree to a time limitation? 
May I ask the Senator, this strikes several lines, inserts several lines. It is not clear to me from the amendment what it does. Can you just---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-12-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Strikes the union representative from the board? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-13-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the distinguished Senator from North Carolina, and I do not object to the time agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-14-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Reserving the right to object, Mr. President, I momentarily suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-15-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-16-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the unanimous consent be modified so no second-degree amendments be in order. Is that in the UC? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-17-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I do not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-18-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I wonder if the Senator would yield and the time not be charged to either side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-19-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I have a question. The distinguished Senator from West Virginia has an annual speech he gives on Mother's Day. And I wonder if the Senator from North Carolina wants a rollcall vote on this amendment. And, second, if you want a rollcall vote, can we do it after the Senator from West Virginia delivers his remarks?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-20-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-21-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-22-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Earlier we did request that. We have some Members who will leave at 11 o'clock, so I asked Senator Byrd if he would speak after the rollcall vote. 
Does the Senator still want a rollcall vote on this amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-23-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-24-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-25-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-26-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this amendment has been agreed to on both sides. It strengthens the electronic filing section, title II of this bill. I appreciate very much the Chairman's support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this amendment offered by Senator Grassley and I will fix a problem having to do with Federal tax refunds and State offsets. For those of us that have State income tax, there is a problem of some considerable proportion. I thank Chairman Roth for being willing to work with Senator Grassley and me on this one. There was confusion. We answered incorrectly when the chairman asked us about whether or not judicial judgments would solve this. I appreciate very much the chairman working with us to accept this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the distinguished Senator from Iowa, Senator Grassley, is not on the floor, but I am certain he is going to want to speak on this. However, I think it will be fine if we urge adoption of the amendment at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
Ms. MIKULSKI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, in response to the statement of the distinguished Senator from Wisconsin, might I say, first of all, I appreciate very much his constructive involvement in this legislation, improving it and making it a better piece of legislation. The Senator's voice was heard by the Finance Committee on several key points. 
I would like to give some additional information that my colleague probably already has, so I am being redundant about it, on this issue of tax simplification. Today, it is estimated that taxpayers spend about--somewhere, actually, between $70 billion and $100 billion to comply with the Tax Code, $70 to $100 billion a year to comply with the Tax Code. The IRS budget is about $7 billion, so we spend about $7 billion on the IRS to have them collect our taxes. 
There is another side to the coin of this complexity. Again, I don't want to revisit this education IRA that just passed on the Senate floor; I don't want to argue that specific objective. But, in order to implement that, the other side of the coin is, the IRS actually becomes more invasive. So a lot of the horror stories that we have heard came as a consequence of the IRS insisting that the taxpayer do X, Y, and Z. They are insisting that they do X, Y, and Z because we passed a law here that will require it, a specific one, which is the 64th change in the tax law since 1986--64 times. Last year, after the Balanced Budget Act of 1997--ask anybody what schedule D looks like out there in the country as to capital gains and they will tell you how complicated and how costly and how difficult it is to comply. 
On the education piece, the IRS, in order to make certain that the taxpayer is following the law, will have to insist that the taxpayer produce documents, insist the taxpayer produce receipts to be able to demonstrate that the expenditures are going to education-related purposes; not only education-related purposes, but purposes that have been required by the school in which the child is enrolled. It is going to be a very difficult set of compliance requirements, A, that the taxpayer is going to have to do, and that the IRS is going to have to make certain the taxpayer has done in order to make certain that they qualify for this tax credit. In addition to the cost, anywhere from $70 to $100 billion annually the taxpayers spend to comply, in addition to that, there is the other side of the coin, which is the IRS. As a consequence of us using income as a basis of determining what the tax is going to be, the IRS has to come out and request the receipts and the documentation and all sorts of other things. That produces the invasive mood that many people on this floor have talked about over and over and over as one of the problems with the IRS. 
So I would just say to the Senator from Wisconsin, he is dead right; the next debate has to be, How do we organize this Tax Code to begin with? I am excited that some of the provisions the Senator has added to this bill will increase the likelihood that this debate will go forward. The Taxpayer Advocate that is in title I is going to change the dynamic, because not only are they a Taxpayer Advocate, they are a National Taxpayer Advocate and they will have a tremendous amount of independence. They will be a 
National Taxpayer Advocate in the State of Wisconsin, of Nebraska, of Ohio. They will have a separate phone number, a separate fax; they will not be operated by the IRS, they will be independent. They are told by this law that they are to come back to this Congress and say: `Here are items that are repetitive problems with the taxpayer, causing us problems every single year, and they are part of the law. We recommend you change the law.' 
Second, as the Senator from Wisconsin knows, because he strengthened the provision, the Commissioner of the IRS will be at the table when tax laws are written. Unlike the education IRA, unlike the Balanced Budget Act last year, where the tax commissioner is silent--the best test of this is, ask yourself, when is the last time you heard an IRS Commissioner say, `Mr. President that's a great tax idea but here's what it's going to cost the taxpayers to collect'? When is the last time you heard the tax commissioner say, `Senator Blowhard, that's a great tax idea, but here is what it's going to cost the taxpayers to comply'? 
We, under this law, say to the Commissioner, you are empowered to tell the American people and to tell us what it is going to cost and we, as well, require, as a result of the simplicity index, some kind of evaluation, as we do with regulation, as we do with all regulation--some kind of evaluation to inform the Congress as to the cost to comply. 
Last, I would say one of the reasons that I felt very strongly about having an employee representative on this board is that the Commissioner is granted, under this legislation, the authority--indeed, directed--to reorganize the IRS along functional lines. I can tell you, of all the things in this bill, I would put that in the top five things that I think taxpayers will notice immediately. Today, what you have is a three-tiered system: National, regional, and district organization. It is very complicated and very difficult for the taxpayer to figure out how this organization occurs. Under the new organization, what you will have is taxpayers organized by category: Individual payers, small business, large business, and nonprofit, all with special problems, all with different needs. The Commissioner has already said that he intends to follow up on some of the suggestions the National Restructuring Commission made, which is that it may be that for both the individual and especially small business, there will be entire categories where the Commissioner will say: `The small business community spends $2 billion a year complying with this particular provision of the code. We generate, with $2 billion worth of cost, nothing. All we have is cost. There is no revenue coming in. We recommend that large categories of people actually be exempt from having to go through all the compliance requirements.' 
I believe what you will see as a consequence of this is a lot of exciting changes being proposed by the Commissioner of the IRS to this Congress that will enable the taxpayer, with its individual small business, large business, or nonprofit, to say, `I still may not like paying my taxes. I still may think they are too high. But it has gotten a heck of a lot easier. You have gotten rid of some of the things that don't make any sense at all.' As a consequence, the customer satisfaction is going to increase. 
So I applaud the distinguished Senator from Wisconsin. His amendments, his suggestions, his input have improved this bill. And I especially point out that he is right on target, talking about simplification. Not only is there a cost but there is also an invasion that occurs as a consequence of the complexity of the code. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor.  
Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. How much time remains on this side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I think I will go for about 27 minutes and yield back 28 seconds. 
Mr. President, 30 seconds, and then I will yield it all back. 
Likewise, I have great respect for the Senator from Florida. I believe his amendment is well intended but, if it is accepted, it will significantly weaken this board. This board needs to be more than advisory; it needs to have a sufficient amount of authority and power when it meets with Congress and we pay attention to it. If it advises and works with the IRS Commissioner, the IRS Commissioner, as well, listens and pays attention. 
So, this amendment will weaken the board. I understand what the Senator from Florida is trying to do, but I hope this amendment will be defeated. 
I yield back the remaining time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the amendment has been cleared on this side as well. It is a good amendment and I appreciate the fine work of the distinguished Senator from Missouri. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, both of these amendments are good amendments. I urge their adoption. I appreciate very much the burden of proof amendment. I think it is very important it apply to all income, and I appreciate the fine work the distinguished Senator from Texas has done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I also support this amendment. The Senator from Texas has carefully drafted this amendment to make certain that the waiver of the right to sue can still be granted. It is a very important provision in all kinds of negotiations, not just with the IRS. The Senator from Texas drafted it so that right is still preserved, but it just can't be coerced. It can't be coerced. 
The IRS supports this amendment. They do not believe it is going to have any impact on the capacity to reach agreements with taxpayers or get noncompliant taxpayers to comply. I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the National Restructuring Commission included this provision in our bill. It is in the House bill, or at least provisions in it that dictate that an employee who does a number of things would be automatically terminated. 
What the Senator from Texas has done is identified some additional things that ought to be on the list and once again has carefully drawn it--I believe the language is `willful' and--what was the other word, I ask the Senator? `Willful' and `intentionally.' 
This would not be a situation where an individual accidentally underpays taxes or misses a deadline or something like that. This is a much higher standard, a much more difficult standard. And I think it is a quite reasonable provision to add to the list of things that would force and require automatic termination. 
In general, this legislation is attempting to change the culture by saying here are some things that, if you do it, there are going to be severe penalties. This is obviously a severe penalty. Punitive damages for damages, we have an expanded right for legal fees. 
What we are trying to do is change the culture so that there is a new seriousness given to actions taken by the IRS. And all of us understand the penalty needs to be sufficient to meet the offense. I think the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Texas is a reasonable one and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
Mr. ROTH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, it is a good amendment, and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this is a good amendment, and I also urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to be able to speak as if in morning business to introduce legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I had an amendment earlier that I had withdrawn that would increase the amount of oversight, or actually create in statute a requirement for annual hearings by the Finance Committee, and I would prefer to merely in a colloquy with the chairman of the Finance Committee get this matter settled without having to put it into law. 
I would like to express again my concern and interest in making certain that congressional oversight is increased. I think it is a little bit like preaching to the choir here, asking this particular chairman to do it, but I would like to declare that I think we should be having a yearly hearing hosted by the Senate's Finance Committee with the IRS Commissioner, with the chair of the new oversight board created in this new law, the National Taxpayer Advocate, and the new Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration; as the four witnesses. The purpose of the hearing would be to review overall progress by the IRS in serving the needs of taxpayers. 
I would simply ask as part of this colloquy whether or not the chairman would be willing to hold such a hearing on a yearly basis? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee. 
Mr. President, I do believe in this kind of oversight where we ask four key people, three of whom are new creations under this law, to come and tell the oversight committee how well this new law is doing and if there is any additional changes in the law that are necessary. 
Again, I appreciate very much the Senator's comments in this regard and will, once again, state my appreciation for the Senator's diligence and perseverance in making certain that IRS does the job the American taxpayers want it to do.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Senator. 
Mr. GRAMS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this is a good amendment, and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-10-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-11-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Let me congratulate the Democratic leader for an excellent statement. I couldn't have said it better myself. He is right; we have an excellent piece of legislation here. The law, as we are proposing it, will dramatically improve the kind of service that taxpayers get, make the IRS much more efficient, and give people much more confidence in Government of, by, and for the people. But it does have a funding flaw. I intend to vote for this bill myself. I pledge to do what I can to make certain that we find a correction of that funding flaw. 
Mr. President, 177,000 people, according to the Joint Tax Committee, will pay $50,000. 
These are individuals who are 70 years of age or older who make over $100,000 in mostly retirement income. So they have to have well over $1 million in liquid assets and earning assets that are producing that kind of income. 
What they are going to do is pay $50,000 per person in order to convert a current IRA that produces taxable income into an IRA that has no taxation on that income. What is very likely to happen is they will have their estates transfer it to their heirs who will not pay tax at all. 
These are not people struggling to save money. There is no social benefit you can calculate here. As the distinguished Democratic leader said, it does provide $8 billion in the first 3 or 4 years. We are doing it in the second 5, so there is time to correct this problem. 
As you get into the outyears, at the very time we are looking at the baby boomers retiring, what we are going to do about Medicare and Social Security, that is going to be the dominant question around here at that particular time. The cost of this program will widen up $2 billion, $3 billion, $4 billion a year. It is one of the things that looks good going in, because it looks cost free, but it certainly is not. 
I appreciate very much the distinguished Democratic leader's statement. It is exactly what we need to be worried about as we head towards final passage of this legislation.  
Mr. NICKLES addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-12-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. If the Senator would yield for a statement. 
The Senator is exactly right. There is a tremendous problem with this Y2K issue, and that is going to be felt by taxpayers who are not going to get returns. They are not going to get refunds and not going to be able to deal with the IRS because the computers are not going to be able to function unless the Y2K problem is solved. And there is no margin for error; you cannot have it 99 percent, you have to have it 100 percent, or there will be far greater problems with the IRS than anything our oversight hearings and the Restructuring Commission hearings have identified. 
I call to the Senator's attention--in fact, I think I should read it into the Record. Mr. Rossotti has, by the way, sent the Finance Committee a letter. Senator Moynihan has an amendment that instructs us to delay some of the implementation, and I believe he is going to offer it later, and I think we have agreed to accept that amendment. I am not sure that solves the problem entirely. We have to talk to Mr. Rossotti about it. But let me read to the Senator what Mr. Rossotti said today, the IRS Commissioner said today, to the Ways and Means Committee. He said: 
Finally, the Administration has serious concerns of the IRS restructuring legislation that require changes to IRS computer systems in 1998 and 1999. Mandating these changes according to schedule currently in the bill would make it virtually impossible for the IRS to ensure that its computer systems are Year 2000 compliant by January 1, 2000, and would create a genuine risk of a catastrophic failure of the Nation's tax collection system in the year 2000. 
Mr. President, I say to the Senator from Connecticut, my hope is that the changes that we are going to make in a few minutes, that Senator Moynihan and Senator Roth and you and Senator Bennett 
have called to our attention, I hope that gets the job done. 
I think in conference we are going to have to listen to Commissioner Rossotti very, very carefully, because there is no question, if we do not get this thing fixed right, the problems that will be created by not being Y2K compliant will be much, much greater than any of the problems we currently have with the IRS.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-13-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the amendment is acceptable on this side. It was Senator Moynihan's amendment initially. I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-14-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay it on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-15-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-16-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-17-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I do not object to the unanimous consent request of the Senator from Delaware, Mr. Roth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-18-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I think the distinguished Senators from Georgia and Mississippi have identified a problem, a dilemma we all face from time to time. We sometimes get a score back from Joint Tax that seems much higher than is logical, and that is what happened in this case. So there will be a point of order that will have to be urged against this amendment as a consequence of violating the pay-go provisions of the Budget Act, section 202. 
I regret that because I believe the Senators from Georgia and Mississippi have identified a legitimate problem. I am frustrated myself in not being able to deal with it in a more orderly fashion. It is something the Finance Committee needs to take up and hold hearings on, ask the IRS to come and tell us what they are doing in this case. 
It seems to me that both the Senator from Georgia and the Senator from Mississippi have identified a problem, and it is very difficult to defend the IRS behavior in this case. I appreciate them bringing it to our attention. I regret that you find yourselves, as many of us have before, in the situation where you get a score back from the Joint Tax Committee that seems, to say the least, a bit higher and that provokes, as a consequence, a point of order. 
Mr. LOTT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-19-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, does the Senator from Georgia have any final statements? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-20-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. According to the Joint Tax, as a consequence of the broad nature of the prohibition of random audits, I believe this may end up being the language: 
The Secretary shall not use, in whole or in part, in the initiation and examination of a return, under subsection (a), the use of a statistically random selection technique for the population of subpopulation. 
Random audits can work. In this case, the Senator from Georgia and the Senator from Mississippi have identified a problem with random audits, and the problem is, if you throw them all out, it is a big cost--Joint Tax says a billion dollars a year. So when all time is yielded back, I am prepared to make a point of order against the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-21-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, to be clear, so Members understand, the IRS uses random audits for noncompliant taxpayers. We heard this problem a bit as well during the National Commission on Restructuring. A lot has to do with the ITC, and the effort we have had underway for several years is appropriate. But the effort that we have had to go after fraud under the ITC is producing a tremendous amount of problems. We regard noncompliance to be noncompliance, whether it is high income, middle income, or low income. If you have a noncompliant person in ITC, you are doing a random audit. So I believe that may be the problem. 
Again, I pledge to the Senators from Georgia and Mississippi that this is something our committee needs to follow up on. It needs to follow up and find out what the details are. As I said, I regret that at some point, when time is yielded back, I will make a budget point of order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-22-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I make a budget point of order that the amendment violates the pay-go provisions of the budget resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-23-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, may I ask the distinguished Senator from Mississippi is he referencing an amendment that was included in the earlier unanimous consent, or is he talking about adding an amendment that was not included in the unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-24-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, we have a problem here then, because this would require a unanimous consent to add an additional amendment that was not on the earlier unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-25-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Is the unanimous consent request to add an additional amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-26-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-27-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay it on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-28-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. `The barriers are crumbling; the system is working.' 
Mr. President, those are the words of David Broder. He wrote them in a Washington Post op-ed on October 21, 1997 as he commented on the progress being made on IRS reform. 
Mr. Broder was commenting at the time that in an increasingly partisan climate on Capitol Hill, the work of Representatives Portman, Cardin, Senator Grassley, and I and how this legislation is moving along was a classic example of how our democratic system can work and that by `beating the odds' we were on the verge of giving the Internal Revenue Service `the shake-up it clearly needs.' 
Mr. President, good news comes to the American taxpayers today. The Senate is about to pass historic IRS reform legislation that will touch the lives of hundreds of millions of Americans. 
This is a long, detailed bill, Mr. President, but I can summarize its intent in a simple well known phrase: of, by and for the people. That is the kind of government we have--of, by and for the people. The premise of our effort from the beginning was that the IRS works for the taxpayer, not the other way around. The impact, I hope, will be equally simple. When you call the IRS, you should get a helpful voice, not a busy signal. That helpful voice should have the resources to help you answer the simple question: `How much do I owe?' If one of the rare bad apples in the IRS abuses a taxpayer, the Commissioner should be able to fire him. The vast majority of IRS employees who are capable and committed public servants should be empowered to do their jobs--helping the equally vast majority of American taxpayers who want to comply with the law to do so. 
This bipartisan, bicameral effort dates back to 1995, when Senator Shelby and I, in our roles on the Appropriations Committee, wrote language into the law creating the National Commission on Restructuring the IRS. 
It continued with Representative Rob Portman and Senator Grassley and I with our work on the commission after we issued our report in June 1997, and moved forward again when we introduced legislation in the House, with Representative Ben Cardin, and in the Senate by July 1997. 
It progressed to Chairman Roth and Senator Moynihan when the Finance Committee began our hearings in September 1997, as well as with House Ways and Means Chairman Archer in the House. And along the way we received the critical support of Speaker Gingrich, Secretary Rubin, the President and Commissioner Rossotti. 
I am proud to have been a part of this effort. We are a nation of laws, Mr. President. As legislators we are given the charge by the American people to write effective laws, as well as change those that 
are not. While this debate has sometimes been contentious, in the end the finished product--the law that we will have written--will be an effective one because in the end Congress's efforts have been about doing what is right and what is best. 
In the beginning, many members of Congress and our commission were shocked to hear that before these efforts, there had been no real reform to the IRS in 50 years and no oversight hearings by the Senate Finance Committee ever. 
That was Congress's fault. 
During our deliberations in the Senate this week, we have been mindful of the fact that Congress has had a critical role in allowing the IRS to become the mess we now have decided to clean up. 
We have acknowledged that the IRS is not Sears & Roebuck--and that we are its Board of Directors. We write the tax laws, we are responsible for the oversight and we are the ones who can make the necessary changes. 
I am not an IRS apologist. I would not have embarked on this mission nearly four years ago if I thought all was well with the agency. And while I always knew the IRS was acting in a damaging fashion toward American taxpayers and in need of reform, my learning over the years solidified the notion that the need for reform was dire. 
As we move toward enacting this legislation into law, we should be proud of the fact that we are changing the culture at the IRS so that the agency will serve taxpayers and not treat them as if it is the other way around, that we are giving Commissioner Rossotti the statutory authority he needs to do his job effectively, that we are creating legislation that will make it easier for all Americans to file their taxes and get information, that we are going to make sure the IRS has the ability to do the job Congress has told them to, and that we are changing the way tax laws are written so that never again will a provision pass without a cost analysis of compliance and administration. 
Mr. President, more Americans pay taxes than vote. The perception of how our government treats us--its citizens--is rooted more in our contact with the IRS than with any other U.S. agency or entity. 
How we are treated by the IRS--and our tax laws--effects our perception of whether or not we believe we have a fair shot at the American Dream and whether or not we are a government of, by and for the people. 
We have taken great strides today to change that perception. 
I thank my colleagues for their efforts on this important and historic piece of legislation and I am very hopeful we will have a swift and effective conference with the House so that the President can sign this bill into law before June 1. 
Mr. President, I add my thanks to the Democratic staff and the Republican staff, all of whom were listed by the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth. It has been a pleasure working with Senator Roth. I want to also thank Congressman Rob Portman. I especially thank the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, Senator Moynihan, for giving me the opportunity to manage this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. 
Mr. President, I am pleased to submit this proposal to provide critical support to teaching programs at free-standing children's hospitals. I am also honored to be joined by Senators Bond, Durbin, Kennedy, DeWine and Moynihan on this bill. 
Children's hospitals play an important role in our nation's health care system. They combine high-quality clinical care, a vibrant teaching mission and leading pediatric biomedical research within their walls. They provide specialized regional services, including complex care to chronically ill children, and serve as safety-net providers to low-income children. 
Teaching is an everyday component of these hospitals' operations. Pediatric hospitals train one-quarter of the nation's pediatricians, and the majority of America's pediatric specialists. Pediatric residents develop the skills they need to care for our nation's children at these institutions. 
In addition, pediatric hospitals combine the joint missions of teaching and research. Scientific discovery depends on the strong academic focus of teaching hospitals. The teaching environment attracts academics devoted to research. It attracts the volume and spectrum of complex cases needed for clinical research. And the teaching mission creates the intellectual environment necessary to test the conventional wisdom of day-to-day health care and foster the questioning that leads to breakthroughs in research. Because these hospitals combine research and teaching in a clinical setting, these breakthroughs can be rapidly translated into patient care. 
Children's hospitals have contributed to advances in virtually every aspect of pediatric medicine. Thanks to research efforts at these hospitals, children can survive once-fatal diseases such as polio, grow and thrive with disabilities such as cerebral palsy, and overcome juvenile diabetes to become self-supporting adults. 
Through patient care, teaching and research, these hospitals contribute to our communities in many ways. However, their training programs--and their ability to fulfill their critical role in America's health care system--are being gradually undermined by dwindling financial support. Maintaining a vibrant teaching and research program is more expensive than simply providing patient care. The nation's teaching hospitals have historically relied on higher payments--payments above the cost of clinical care itself--in order to finance their teaching programs. 
Today, competitive market pressures provide little incentive for private payers to contribute towards teaching costs. At the same time, the increased use of managed care plans within the Medicaid program has decreased the availability of teaching dollars through Medicaid. Therefore, Medicare's support for graduate medical education is more important than ever. 
Independent children's hospitals, however, serve an extremely small number of Medicare patients. Therefore, they do not receive Medicare graduate medical education payments to support their teaching activities. In 1997, Medicare provided an average of $65,000 per resident to all teaching hospitals, compared to an average of $230 per resident in total Medicare GME payments at independent children's hospitals. 
This proposal will address, for the short-term, this unintended consequence of current public policy. It will provide time-limited support to help children's hospitals train tomorrow's pediatricians, investigate new treatments and pursue pediatric biomedical research. It will establish a four-year fund, which will provide children's hospitals with a Federal teaching payment equal to the national average per resident payment through Medicare. Total spending over four years will be less than a billion dollars. 
All American families have great dreams for their children. These hopes include healthy, active, happy childhoods, so they seek the best possible health care for their children. And when these dreams are threatened by a critical illness, they seek the expertise of highly-trained pediatricians and pediatric specialists, and rely on the research discoveries fostered by children's hospitals. All families deserve a chance at the American dream. Through this legislation, we will help children's hospitals--hospitals such as Children's Hospital in Omaha, Boys' Town, St. Louis Children's Hospital, Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago, Children's Hospital in Boston and others--train the doctors and do the research necessary to fulfill this dream. Through this legislation, Congress will be doing its part to help American families work towards a successful future. 
Mr. President, this legislation will address a short-term problem--actually a problem that is a short-term solution to a problem that we have with graduate medical education for pediatricians. Pediatric hospitals perform a very important part of the teaching and the training of our pediatricians. But because they see very few Medicare patients, which is obvious, they don't receive Medicare graduate education payments to support their teaching activities. What that means is there is a huge difference in Federal support across teaching hospitals--about $65,000 per resident in Medicare GME payments to all teaching hospitals, compared to an average of $230 per resident in total Medicare GME payments to independent children's hospitals. 
It is a very big problem as we increasingly pay attention to the need for good pediatric health care for our children. We have to make sure that we solve this problem. This is a short-term solution. 
I mentioned the short-term solution. The Presidential Commission on Medicare will be making its recommendation next year. One of its responsibilities is to deal with the question of graduate medical education--coming up with a solution of how we can fund it in an environment where more and more health care is going into managed care. That will be an especially difficult problem for us to solve. 
But inside of that overall problem is an even more compelling problem, as I think Members will see when they look at the differential in reimbursement for teaching costs in pediatric hospitals versus all residents nationwide. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, the choice that the Senate will be making today really is, the first choice we have to make is do we want to put another $9 billion of spending in this bill. That is what the Finance Committee did. And as a consequence we are now trying to find a pay-for of some kind. I believe it is a perfectly good bill without that $9 billion worth of additional expenditure, but that is the threshold question. Do you want to spend an additional $9 billion? And if you do, the question is, how do you get the money? Where do you get the money to pay for it? 
What we have done in our amendment is included two provisions that were included by the chairman of the Budget Committee. The Chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator Domenici, has advocated these two provisions as reasonable provisions, and we have included them as a pay-for. The alternative must be described here in a little more detail. 
It is essentially an accounting gimmick that will be used by people over the age of 70 1/2 that will basically enable them to pass to their heirs, tax free, assets that they currently own. That is what it is. Members need to know who will be affected by this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The Joint Committee on Taxation said, as we all know, it only affects Americans with retirement income over $100,000 a year. That is who is affected. So ask yourself how many people in your State have incomes over $100,000 a year, because that is who it is going to affect. The Joint Committee on Taxation is saying 170,000 of those individuals--that is what they are saying, 170,000 of those individuals--will convert to a Roth IRA. What does that mean? That means they are going to pay $50,000 each to convert. In order to get $8 million, you have to have an average of $50,000 of taxes paid by each of these 170,000 people to convert. 
You ask yourself, why are they doing it? Love America? Love their country? Get teary-eyed when they watch the flag go by? No, sir. What they are doing is saying they would rather pay that extra $50,000 because they know their heirs will not pay any tax on this asset when it is transferred. That is what happens. It is a substantial reduction in tax revenue in the 10- to 15-year period at the very moment that this Senate and this Congress is going to be facing a tremendous problem of growing entitlements. They are going to force us into a situation where we will have to be reducing the cost of entitlement programs. While we are reducing the cost of entitlement programs, the heirs of very wealthy Americans are going to be receiving income on which they are paying no tax. That is what this is all about. This is not about Americans who are under the gun. Remember, of all of the nearly 40 million Social Security beneficiaries, almost 70 percent of them have 50 percent of their income being Social Security only; that is $745 a month. 
This is about people over the age of 70 1/2 with retirement incomes over $100,000 taking an IRA, converting it to a Roth IRA, paying, on an average, $47,000 per person for taxes so their heirs don't have to pay any taxes at the very moment that this Senate is going to be facing cutting back on benefits to the middle-income Americans. That is the choice that this proposal presents to us. 
We are saying, first of all, on this side we would prefer that we not add to the cost of the bill. We have. Second, if we are saying we are going to add to the cost of the bill, let's find something that is more appropriate than providing a tax break to people right now who, frankly, not only are they not asking for a tax break, I think it is very difficult to justify that they need one. Our offset includes a provision that was recommended by the chairman of the Budget Committee. 
In addition, our proposal, our amendment, includes some requests. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Our amendment includes something that I urge my colleagues to consider. My hope is Senator Moynihan will offer this as a free-standing amendment later. Mr. Rossotti, quite appropriately, says we have about 600 days before the 31st of December 1999. No one is more eloquent than the Senator from Utah, Senator Bennett, talking about the problems that the year 2000 is going to create as a consequence of having to rewrite all of our computer codes. The computers will think it is the year 1900 and everything is going to end up getting shut down, a huge problem for the IRS. Mr. Rossotti is very much worried. Right now the IRS is a bit behind. He sent us a letter asking us to delay some of these provisions. 
We have not been able to get these scored yet from Joint Tax. I regret that. It takes a little longer out of Joint Tax than we would like. We will get that scored before we are through with this debate and we will be able to reduce some of the offsets in other areas. But I am urging Members have an opportunity to put themselves on the side of honoring the request of Mr. Rossotti, who is saying we are not going to be able to meet that year 2000 problem if a whole series of additional things are imposed upon us that we have to do. 
Understand, we pass the law but the IRS has to implement it. We change the law, whether it is a Tax Code or some other area of the tax law, and the IRS is the one that has to organize human beings to get the job done. 
We have an offset in here that has been endorsed by the chairman of the Budget Committee. We have an offset that does not have us saying to people with retirement incomes over $100,000 a year here is a way for you to shelter that income for your heirs. And we have a provision in here that enables Senators to say we have taken a step to make certain that at least the IRS is not, in the year 2000, going to cause all kinds of additional hardships to the American taxpayers as a consequence of not having their computer system and their software Y2K compliant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. First of all, as to `unconscionable,' we are just following the lead of the chairman of the Budget Committee who apparently is unconscionable as well. He had the same proposal in his budget. 
Second, let me say this is not to fund the operation of the IRS. This basically funds a tax cut. That is what we are talking about. We have new innocent spouse provisions in this bill and a burden of proof shift that will result in a reduction of taxes of some American taxpayers. That is what this pay-for is set up to do. 
Let me say these taxes are not imposed until the year 2002. This gives the Environment and Public Works Committee nearly 3 additional years. They had 3 1/2 years now already since this bill expired. My presumption is 3 years is plenty. I can find an additional offset, perhaps, and push it back to 2003 if you want an additional year to get this bill authorized. 
This takes care of a second 5-year problem. Again, I say to colleagues, we are having to deal with this because the Finance Committee decided to spend $9 billion more, and that $9 billion is being spent to reduce some people's taxes who are going to pay higher taxes as a result of the innocent spouse provision and the burden-of-proof issue. 
We are reducing taxes in one area and we have to find an offset. It seems to me, Mr. President, that Senator Domenici's recommendation is correct. By delaying this until 2002, we take away the argument the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire had about destroying the Superfund Program. This gives the Environment and Public Works Committee 3 1/2 years to finish their job.  
Mr. CHAFEE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I yield such time as necessary to the Senator from Montana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank you, Mr. President. 
First, I want to make it clear again what we are doing here. We are trying to come up with an offset for $9 billion worth of additional cost that the Senate bill has that the House bill does not. It is $9 billion worth of additional loss of revenue, $9 billion of loss of revenue that occurs as a consequence of changes that we are making in the tax law. Somebody will pay less taxes. That is essentially what this amounts to. 
Mr. President, we tried to ascertain who was going to benefit from these changes. I think it is very important as we look at our tax law that we ask ourselves--since the vast majority of our taxes come from middle-income Americans and there is a significant concern on their part as to whether or not they are paying their fair share, we tried to get some distributional analysis on this thing to find out who is going to benefit from the innocent spouse provisions, the burden of proof shifts, and the Tax Court. Not many Americans go to Tax Court. There is a provision in here as well that has to do with interest being accumulated. 
Unfortunately, Joint Tax was not able to give us a distributional analysis. So we are flying a little bit blind and not able to describe who is going to benefit from these provisions. The underlying issue for us, though, is we now have to find $9 billion. 
We have a proposal. Chairman Roth has a proposal. I alert colleagues, by the way, what I think will likely happen. My guess is the majority will all vote for the Roth amendment and that will pass. And if it does pass, I will not insist on a rollcall vote on the alternative amendment. There are other alternatives that we can come up with. 
The baseline question is going to be for us, after the Roth amendment is accepted: How comfortable do you feel with the provisions in it? So, you will have rejected the alternative amendment, fine. Let us reject the alternative amendment. But remember this: This law now is going to contain a provision in there that is going to do something for certain taxpayers. Approximately 170,000 taxpayers will be affected by this provision in the law. 
How will they be affected? That is the question we have to ask ourselves. The answer is, they are going to be entitled to pay more taxes early on, approximately--the estimate is $47,000 per taxpayer. They will pay about $8 billion total. And then they will not pay any taxes in the outyears. When they convert, they will not pay any taxes. We are trying to ascertain what the outyear costs are going to be for this program, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, what happens is that in the first 5 years that this provision is in effect, Joint Tax is estimating there will be $2.6 billion of additional revenue coming in year 1; $3.1 billion in year 2; $3.1 billion in year 3. Americans with incomes over $100,000, who are 70.5 years of age or older, $100,000 of retirement income or more, they will be converting existing accounts into Roth IRA accounts, and paying, on average, $47,000 for the privilege of doing that. In the year 2002, we will lose $1 billion; in 2003, we will lose $1 billion; in 2004, it goes to $1.2 billion we lose; in 2005, we lose $1.4 billion; in 2006, we lose $1.5 billion; and in 2007, we lose $1.7 billion. The trend line is up. 
I remind my colleagues, in the year 2010, we will see the beginnings of the retirement of 77 million Americans called baby boomers. If you look at the cost, the outyear cost of our mandatory programs, you can see clearly what is going to happen. 
In order to fund a tax cut for Americans who have $100,000 a year of retirement income and up, because their heirs or whoever is converting and not going to pay any taxes on this income, in order to fund a growing tax cut for these individuals, we are going to be cutting programs for middle-income Americans. It is an inescapable thing that we will be facing. 
So, again, I want my colleagues to understand, issue No. 1 is, do you want to spend another $9 billion to reduce the taxes of Americans who have been affected by innocent spouses who go to Tax Court or who have other problems that are identified in this bill? If the answer is yes, then you have to find an offset. And what we have is the chairman's proposal to reduce the taxes of upper-income Americans, or more likely their heirs, at some point out in the future, and that point is the very point when our mandatory programs are going to be squeezing all of our discretionary programs even worse than they are today. 
My expectation is the majority will come down and vote for the amendment that the Senator from Delaware has offered, the chairman of the Finance Committee. As I said, I will not insist on a rollcall vote on ours. 
Colleagues, I hope both Republican and Democrats will look at this pay-for. It will not be too late for us to change it. We can still change it on this floor. We can change it in conference. I don't think when you examine the details of this pay-for that you will be very comfortable going home to Nebraska or other States, first of all, finding somebody who has over $100,000 worth of retirement income and saying, `Congratulations, your heirs won't pay any taxes on whatever asset you convert to a Roth IRA.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-10-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-11-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The Senator from North Dakota is exactly right. 
I hope colleagues will look at this letter from the Joint Tax Committee. This is the tip of the iceberg. The tax only scores 10 years out. They are saying, yes, Americans with over $100,000 in retirement income converting to a Roth IRA pay $47,000 in taxes each, and that will add to $2.6 billion by year 1, 2, 3, but after that it starts to cost more and more money as the individuals convert and don't pay any tax on their income. That is basically what will happen--and it grows. 
I say to the Senator from North Dakota, not only are you exactly right, but in the fourth year it costs $900 million and in the 10th year it is $1.7 billion. It is going up. This is less taxes that upper-income Americans will pay on these retirement accounts. As I said, it is apt to be the heirs. 
Who will pick up the slack? We know who will pick up the slack. If this amendment is accepted, which I suspect it will, I hope colleagues will look at the details of it. If you want to spend another $9 million in the second 5 years to pay for all the things that we added in the Senate Finance Committee, most of which are good and reasonable, if you want to add those provisions, the question is how will you pay for it. My hope is that we will find an alternative to this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-12-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The Senator is right. 
Title 3 of the bill is called the taxpayer rights provision. I worked very hard on those provisions. We extended lots of new taxpayer rights. In the bill that Senator Grassley and I introduced in the Finance Committee--and I voted for it--we added some additional rights. 
The problem is we don't know who will benefit from those tax reductions. We know three principal provisions cost us money. One is the shifting of burden of proof in Tax Court. For citizens, they need to ask themselves, do they go to Tax Court? If they don't go to Tax Court and don't have the experience on a regular basis in Tax Court, they will not bill. 
The second provision is called innocent spouse relief. They have to ask, will that affect me? Seventy percent of Nebraskans do not itemize their deductions. They will not be impacted by the second one. 
The third one, the suspension of the accrual of interest and penalties if the IRS fails to contact the taxpayer within 12 months after a timely filed return. Again, ask yourself who will be affected by this? We were unable, I regret, to get from the Joint Tax Committee an answer to that. We don't know who will benefit from those three additional provisions, but that is what is costing us the money. That is why we have to find some kind of an offset. 
As I said, I understand the die is likely to be cast and we will probably have 55 votes for the Roth amendment and 45 votes against. I will not ask for a rollcall vote on our alternative, but I appeal both to Republicans and Democrats on the floor to examine what it is we are about to do and ask ourselves, do we want to open up a hole in revenue in the outyears as a consequence of these conversions that will benefit a relatively small number of Americans who have retirement income in excess of $100,000 a year. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-13-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, as I said, the die is cast on this thing. This amendment is going to be accepted. The question is, Will we have any reexamination moment? We will reexamine what we are about to do? 
Again, this affects people with incomes over $100,000 in retirement income. To get $100,000 in retirement income, I am probably going to have to have a million or more dollars in liquid assets that are earning this income. I would probably have tax-exempt bonds that I own as well. This is a very select group of people. We are not penalizing them; we are treating them like everybody else. I am capable of feeling sympathy for low- and moderate-income seniors who are struggling to pay for health care bills, and about making certain that Americans have the opportunity to save. But we are not helping Americans who are struggling to save with this. These are Americans who have accumulated a substantial amount of wealth. 
If we want to help struggling Americans, we ought to cut the payroll tax, as Senator Moynihan is proposing, giving Americans an $800 billion cut in taxes; that would go immediately into savings. That is exciting to me. And 98.5 percent of Americans die with estates under $600,000. We are talking about 1.5 percent of the American people who have estates over $600,000. You have to have an estate over a million dollars in order to generate $100,000 worth of income. 
Please don't tell me that tax lawyers and tax advisers can't figure out a way to transfer this to your heirs. If that assertion is made by a colleague, let's bring a tax adviser in before one of our committees and ask them. It darn sure can, and they darn sure will. 
This provides a benefit for a very small amount of Americans, and, frankly, it is very difficult to make the case that they need a benefit. They are not treating them in a fashion that is equal; they are treating them unequally with other Americans who are in the workforce and might be looking to retirement accounts as well. 
Mr. President, this pay-for ought to be rejected by this body; it is going to be accepted nonetheless. I hope we have some `morning after' doubts about this, after examining whom it is going to benefit and the dilemma it will pose to us down the road. I don't know how many in this body expect to be here 6, 7, 8 years from now, but if you are here, one of the questions you are going to have to answer is: Why did you give away $2 billion a year back in 1998 to less than 1 percent of the American public, who are not struggling, who are not foraging in the alley for food, and they are not trying to figure out how to make ends meet? They will use this change in the law to transfer an asset to heirs, and their heirs won't pay any taxes as a consequence. 
Mr. President, as I say, I know when it is time, if not to accept defeat, to acknowledge it. I expect 55 Republican votes for this amendment. I do not intend to ask for a rollcall vote on the substitute, but I hope my colleagues, as they begin to examine what this amendment does, will ask that we come back and revisit the pay-for for the second 5 years. 
I yield back whatever time I have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-14-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, as I indicated earlier, I have to ask for one modification. It is a date on page 2, line 2. In the earlier unanimous consent request, I indicated that I might need to modify our amendment. 
I send the modified amendment to the desk, as described. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-15-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-16-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-17-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-18-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
Mr. BYRD addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-19-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I wonder if the Senator from Delaware would agree--Senator Reid has an amendment he wants to bring right after this--that we stack these votes, and have a UC to have both of these votes stacked. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-20-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. We would have to get a time agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-21-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Could we modify it so we go to Senator Reid's amendment next and have rollcall votes not before 1:15? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-22-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, let me first do as the Senator from Iowa did, Senator Grassley, and compliment the intent of the distinguished Senator from Missouri. I started out exactly where the Senator from Missouri is, considering that a full-time board would be best. What I have concluded is that over time, examining what this board is going to be doing--and let nobody doubt, by the way, this board has substantial powers. This is not an advisory board. There are a number of things that we specifically say they cannot do, in order to avoid conflict of interest with procurement and with personnel and with confidentiality, but this board oversees the IRS in its administration, its management, its conduct, its direction, and its supervision of the execution and application of the IRS law. 
It has substantial powers in making recommendations to the President as to who the Commissioner ought to be and has the power to recommend the Commissioner ought to be terminated. I urge colleagues to look at section 1102 of the proposed legislation. 
I share the conclusion Senator Grassley has just iterated in his opposition to this amendment; that is, that a full-time board would actually restrict our capacity to go out and get the people with the kind of talent that we need to be on this board in the first place. There are an awful lot of Americans who have expertise in management, have expertise in computers, have expertise in the operation of a large organization. They especially have expertise in restructuring, which is going to be a very, very important piece of work that Mr. Rossotti will have the authority to do, restructuring and changing the nature an organization. 
We need people with all those kinds of expertise. And if you require the individual to serve full time, my conclusion, strongly felt, is you will exclude large numbers of citizens who would say: If it is part time, I'm prepared to sit on this Board as a consequence of my desire to improve the way this IRS is operated. My desire to improve it is strong enough to serve part time, but I can't possibly do it full time. We are going to reduce the list if we make it full time, of citizens who could serve this in this way. 
In addition, I point out this board sunsets in 2002; thus, Congress would have the opportunity to revisit and make a determination as to whether or not, as a result of the experience that we have had, this board needs to be full time. 
So I urge those who were concerned about this board being part time, on the one hand to consider we are going to restrict our ability to get the kind of expertise that is needed on this board, and, second, we will have an opportunity, after 5 years, to revisit this issue. If the experience of this board is that they are recommending to us that full time would be better than part time, we will have ample opportunity to make that judgment. 
I urge my colleagues, with great respect to the Senator from Missouri and his intent, to vote against this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-23-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. First of all, let me say to the Senator from Nevada, long before I got on this issue of taxpayer rights, the Senator was there, working on Taxpayer Bill of Rights 1 and Taxpayer Bill of Rights 2. This legislation in title III is a continuation of your work. 
And I appreciate very much your early support of this bill that enabled us to fashion this legislation in a bipartisan way, which I think allows us to make certain that we can extend the rights and power and authority to the taxpayer and stop abuses that we see within the IRS's capacity to collect money that this Congress authorizes is to be collected. 
I appreciate, specifically, the problem you are identifying with your amendment. It is a problem that, thanks to Chairman Roth, we heard before our committee. We saw the problems that can occur when you offer somebody, essentially, a reward to inform; you can get abuse from that. As the Senator knows, as I have heard him talk about this as well, the dilemma is, how far do you go? We have this mechanism being used throughout law enforcement and there are many times when it works and when it is not abuse. 
I am wondering if the Senator would allow to us modify his amendment so it can require the commissioner to do a thorough analysis of this problem. Commissioner Rossotti has had this brought to his attention. It would require him to do a thorough analysis of this problem and then come back to us and say, how can we change the law so as to make certain that you are able to use this system when appropriate, but we can get rid of some of the abuses that are quite obviously not the intent of this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-24-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-25-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk, an amendment offered by Senator Leahy and Senator Ashcroft. It has been cleared on both sides. I ask that this amendment be agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-26-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-27-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-28-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this amendment addresses a very important problem that we saw in the oversight hearings that the chairman conducted, and that is sometimes the payment made to induce an individual to provide evidence against a taxpayer who is violating the law becomes an incentive to provide evidence that is faulty and the taxpayers end up being abused as a consequence. Normally, a request for a study would not necessarily go very far. In this case, Commissioner Rossotti has already launched an investigation by the Criminal Investigation Division, using Mr. Webster, former FBI Director, as the lead who has indicated he wants to get to the bottom of this problem as well. So I believe this modification is a good modification. I am prepared to accept it on this side.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-29-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I was concerned as to where that animal analogy was going to go. Again, I appreciate very much what the Senator from Missouri is trying to do. I think the intent is shared both by myself and the chairman of the committee. We believe very strongly that this amendment would actually reduce the President's ability to find qualified people to come and bring their considerable expertise to assist the Commissioner who will be granted new authority to manage the Internal Revenue Service to restructure and improve customer service, improve the use of technology, and increase the satisfaction that customers of the IRS get. 
So although it is well intended--I actually started out where the Senator from Missouri is--I believe it will make it more difficult for us to get the kind of people the Commissioner needs to serve on this board. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-30-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
Mr. GREGG addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-31-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, we are prepared to accept this amendment. It requires a study to be done. I think it is a very important amendment. I appreciate the Senator bringing it onto this bill and bringing it to our attention. There is a problem with noncompliance; it is a big problem. Indeed, there is a problem in the IRS with noncompliant taxpayers, and Americans believe a problem with the IRS is that people who are complying are being harassed by the IRS. We have spent a lot of time, as is appropriate, dealing with the second category. I appreciate what the Senator is asking for very much.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-32-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I wonder if the Senator would specify an amount of time. Senator Graham of Florida is going to offer an amendment, and we would like to keep moving on the bill. Do you have a period of time in mind? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-33-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Fifteen minutes is fine with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, we would be prepared on this side to accept what I consider to be a very, very good amendment. The idea of this board is to give the President authority to select from a wide range of experiences that will assist the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service in managing the agency, and the Commissioner has already indicated--indeed, we are going to help him follow through--his preference to manage the IRS much differently than it currently is. 
The IRS is currently managed using a three-tiered system that we adopted in 1952. There are regional and district offices, multiple offices, and you have all different kinds of taxpayer needs taken care of in each one of these district offices. 
What the Commissioner has indicated he wants to do is reorganize along functional lines. Function No. 1 is large business of which I believe there are 7- or 800,000, individual taxpayers would be function No. 2, small business No. 3, and nonprofits No. 4. 
So what the Commissioner is already attempting to do, and this law would direct him, is to entirely or completely eliminate the three tiers in favor of this kind of functional organization. But what he is already recognizing is that taxpayer needs vary not according to their geography but according to the category of the taxpayer. One of the largest and most important categories of radically different needs than the other three is small business. 
So what the Senator from Florida is doing is adding to the list of requirements the President would have to consider when making a selection, and that would be some small business experience which reinforces very much the other section of this bill, which directs the Commissioner to eliminate, as much as possible, the three-tier system in favor of this functional system of organization. 
So I think it is a very good amendment. It is one of these amendments that just has a few words in it. There is a lot more to this amendment than meets the eye. I think with the addition of a small business experience, this board is much more likely to be able to carry out its function, and that is to provide the kind of consistent oversight and advice the Commissioner needs to manage this very important agency.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute on the amendment just offered by the Senator from Tennessee and the Senator from Alabama striking the provision in title I concerning the oversight board and specifically concerning the employee representative on that board, and even more specifically the language that will enable that board member to function on the board; that is to say, language which, by the way, is not precedent setting. 
There are many other cases where people have been given protection from very specific areas of conflict of interest in order to be able to do their work. In this case, the only protection against conflict of interest charges is postemployment, since the individual selected from the Department of Treasury is working for the IRS. 
Certainly, we want the law to be written so they are able to go back to work with the IRS or do whatever work they had in connection with the employee's representative association without being prevented from doing so. 
So that is the only protection that this language provides. 
There are really three sort of threshold questions that Members have to both ask and answer as they deliberate this particular amendment. The first is one that the Senator from Texas just raised a minute ago, which is skepticism about the nature of this board. 
Is this board going to be able to get the job done? I believe strongly it is. It is not an advisory board. It is a board with a considerable amount of power and authority to guide the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. It is a board that has been put together, under statute, to have the skills necessary to be able to advise the Commissioner on a variety of different things and to give the Commissioner input. The board will be making a budget recommendation to the Treasury Secretary. That is a considerable amount of power. 
The board will forward three names to be Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service to the President. The board can also instruct the President they believe the Commissioner should be removed from office. There are other powers enumerated in title I. Certainly one can be skeptical, as one always needs to be with any kind of a board. I may be proven wrong. I think this board will provide a substantial amount of guidance and assistance to the Commissioner. I think the powers that we have given this board are right. 
I believe it is as well important to remember that what this legislation is attempting to do is create some balance in oversight. The executive oversight organization, this new board, should give taxpayers a sense that the IRS is more accountable, along with the taxpayer advocate provisions that are also contained in title I. However, it is important for us to make certain that Congress has the right amount of oversight. 
The Restructuring Commission that met for over a year--Senator Grassley and I were both on that Commission--we heard time after time after time the taxpayers, and the providers that are assisting the taxpayers, saying that the biggest problem is Congress. There is inconsistent oversight. There are six committees to whom the Commissioner must come to report. The IRS is not Sears and Roebuck; they have 535 elected Members who are the board of directors. 
One of the great tests to discover whether or not we understand what the IRS is doing is asking yourself the question: Do we know what the IRS budget is? Do you know how much we appropriate on an annual basis? It is about $7 billion this year, against about $1.6 trillion of tax revenue. They collect 95 percent of all the revenue that this Congress authorizes. We authorize the moneys that are to be spent and we specify with our tax laws how that money is to be collected and who is to be exempted. 
I made the point many times that we talk a great deal on this floor about the need for simplification. One of the most powerful witnesses that the Finance Committee had before us was an individual, a tax lawyer who helps taxpayers, who was pointing out some abuse in our Tax Code. He was saying to us, as long as you tax income, as long as you have a tax on income, it is likely, as income becomes more and more complicated, and more and more complex, it is likely the IRS is going to become more and more involved in making determinations whether or not an individual has voluntarily reported the right amount of income. 
And we change our Tax Code. I guess 2 or 3 weeks ago, when 
the Coverdell IRS bill was passed--I do not want to reargue that bill, but no one can argue that that increased not only the complexity of the Code and requires the IRS to work harder, but we have asked them to now rewrite the Code. That is the 63rd change since 1986. 
In addition to that, the IRS is going to have to make certain that people who claim that deduction, claim to be able to use that educational IRA, they are going to have to provide receipts. Because the law says that you can use the education IRA for any expense that is connected to the education of the child in the school, and thus we are going to have to have the IRS out there if something is claimed and they can be audited and have to produce all those records and produce proof. They are not being required to produce the proof and records by accident, Mr. President. They are being asked to produce the records and proof because we wrote a law that said they had to do it. 
So one of the things we are trying to get with this oversight board is some balance and get to a point where both the executive branch and the legislative branch can reach agreement on what we want the mission of the IRS to be so they can make good investments in tax system modernization. 
The Senator from Alabama is on the floor. He and I started this thing back in 1995 with our oversight efforts in appropriations. We saw that nearly $4 billion had been wasted in the tax system modernization. Every witness, public and private, that came before the Restructuring Commission said the reason, No. 1, is you do not know what you want to use the technology for. You do not get shared consensus. You do not get to a point where you agree--the Congress and the executive branch--what the purpose of the technology is going to be. And as the man said, `If you don't know where you're going, any road will take you there.' 
That is exactly what the IRS has been doing. They have been deploying technology in a very dysfunctional organization, and as a consequence the technology will not do what they promised us it was going to do. 
So threshold question No. 1 is, do you think this new oversight board is going to get the job done? I think it will. I think it will dramatically change the kind of accountability taxpayers get, and especially if we combine that with new oversight requirements on the part of the Congress. I am confident that oversight board--in combination with new oversight requirements of the Congress--I am confident that oversight board will increase the accountability and the operating efficiency and provide the Commissioner the kinds of guidance that the Commissioner needs. 
Threshold question No. 2 is, who do you want to be on the board? What sort of composition? What sort of makeup? There is very little disagreement. As I hear from colleagues, we ought to have people with private sector expertise. The Senator from Florida earlier came to the floor and asked for some change in the bill to put somebody with small business experience on this board. I think it is very important that we do so. Both Chairman Roth and I agreed to accept that. That has been altered, accepted, incorporated into the language. 
But in addition, Mr. President, we also heard from people who have gone through the restructuring that the IRS is going to go through. And make no mistake about it, Mr. Rossotti, with the new powers that Chairman Roth has written into this bill 
that he will have, Mr. Rossotti has a lot of work to do. He is going to go from a three-tier geographical system that has 10 regional centers and 33 district offices--I mean a tremendously complicated geographical organization that started in 1952--he is going to go from that to an organization that is along functional lines: Small business, individual business, large taxpayer and nonprofit; four different functional categories. 
There is going to be a lot of personnel decisions to be made and a lot of personnel changes that have to be made. In addition, if he deploys the technology correctly, as we insist he do, and as the electronic filing section of this title of this bill allows him to do, there is going to be a lot of personnel decisions that have to be made. 
As we heard in the Restructuring Commission, if you are going to make that kind of tough Restructuring Commission, you are better off having a personnel representative on the board. That is why the employee representative is on the board. We are not putting an employee representative on the board for political reasons, but putting one on the board to make sure you have an individual who can sell and who can persuade and can help get these kinds of restructuring decisions implemented and make certain that there is going to be a minimal amount of resistance on the employees' side. 
We heard most eloquently from the new tax authorities in Australia that went through a very similar restructuring as we are doing here. And we took their example, as well as many other private sector people who talked about what happens when you restructure, to say that we ought to have an employee representative on the board. 
Now remember, this board lasts for 10 years. It sunsets after 10 years. Congress may decide that it does not need the board at all anymore, may revisit threshold question No. 1 and threshold question No. 2. The composition of the board can be revisited at that time as well. We may, after these restructuring decisions are made, after you have the IRS reorganized along functional lines, and after the technology has been fully invested in and implemented, this Congress may decide that there is no need to have the representative of the employees' association on this board. 
I feel very strongly going in that we need it. That is a threshold question. 
You may find you don't want it. You may have a legitimate belief that, no, that ought not to happen. Fine. But if you are going to have that person on the board--and I believe a majority of this Senate wants an employee representative on the board--if you are going to have an employee representative on the board, make it possible for that individual to do the job. 
Why would you put somebody on the board and then neuter him with a statute that says there will be a conflict of interest? That is what this conflict of interest language does. It does not remove this representative from all the other conflict of interest laws in every one of the other private sectors that people have to abide by. It is not a precedent. There are hundreds of individuals throughout Government who have been given similar kinds of protection in order to be able to do their job. 
I urge colleagues, as they come down and consider this, because it will be one of the complicated legal, constitutional issues, you have to walk yourself through three questions: 
No. 1, do you think this oversight board will do the job? If you don't support the oversight board, it almost doesn't matter what the composition is. 
No. 2, do you think you ought to have an employee representative on there to be able to get the support needed to do the tough personnel decisions that this Commissioner will have? Look seriously at new authorities we are giving the Commissioner. They are almost unprecedented. We are giving this Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, I think quite appropriately, new authorities to be able to hire, new authorities to be able to fire. 
The distinguished Senator from Texas earlier indicated he was going to offer an amendment adding to the list of reasons that an employee can be fired. There are specific lists--I think it is five or six items--that if an employee of the IRS does something, they can be fired for cause. You don't have to go through the normal personnel procedures. Just on the face of it, say if an employee does something like that, they ought to be terminated. 
The Commissioner has substantial new authority. They will need the full participation and cooperation of the employees of the IRS in order to be able to get it done. 
I come to the threshold question No. 2 and say absolutely yes, we ought to have an employee representative on this board. If you answer that question yes, you have to make certain that the laws are written so the individual can do the job. 
What we will have, unfortunately, is a debate about the conflict of interest stuff before we have done whether or not the person ought to be on the board. It is far better for us to take up the amendment that will be offered by some that we not have a Treasury employee representative on the board at all. 
If that is your position, if that amendment is successful, we strike the employees representative, the conflict of interest thing is irrelevant. But if we end up with an employee representative on the board--to pass this amendment, which would make it impossible for that representative to do their job --it seems to me to put the cart before the horse and do something I think no Member wants to do, which is basically creating something that will not be able to do the job that we wanted to do. 
I hope Members will vote against the Thompson-Sessions amendment. I hope they will listen to the arguments that will be offered in detail by many people who have great experience with conflict of interest law. Listen to the arguments of Senator Levin. Listen to the arguments of Senator Glenn. Listen to the arguments of those who understand how it is that we deal with conflicts of interest. We deal with them all the time. 
This language is in response to the Office of Government Ethics concerns about this position. They, frankly, take the position they don't want an employee representative on there under any circumstances, no matter what you do. Take that position, but that is a policy decision that we have to make. We have to decide, Do you want an employee representative on? I say yes. Once you have the employee rep, we write the law so the individual is able to do the job. That is what we are attempting to do with the language that the distinguished Senator from Tennessee and the distinguished Senator from Alabama are proposing to strike. 
I hope this amendment is defeated. I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I agree with Senator Roth. This is a very important matter and issue, and I pledge my full cooperation to work with the distinguished Senator from Alabama as well. 
I call to your attention, with the National Taxpayer Advocate, I think, we are going to get pretty close to this issue. In addition, by organizing--and the law requires it--the IRS along functional lines, we will now have small business organized as a single category. 
One of the things Mr. Rossotti has already indicated is that he is likely to take some of the secondary recommendations that our Commission made. We have large numbers of relatively small businesses out there who expend a lot of money and don't pay any taxes at all. They have to comply with the code. He believes there may be some opportunity for us to significantly relieve a number of individuals--millions, in his words--that might otherwise have to fill out a form. So I think what the Senator has brought to our attention is a very important problem; it is taxation without representation. It is frustrating. I think we are going to get more accountability with this law, and we are going to have vehicles through the taxpayer advocate to do the very thing the Senator is talking about. I appreciate it, and I pledge my full cooperation to work with him on this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, again, I say to colleagues there is a three-part test that one has to go through in this regard: A, do you want an oversight board; B, who do you want on the board; and, C, how are you going to deal with apparent conflicts of interest? 
The conflict of interest issue is a very serious issue and, indeed, our committee, in order to confirm Mr. Rossotti, had to deal with that. We wrote an agreement, a letter, I believe, of understanding between Mr. Rossotti, a private sector individual with significant private sector interests who was willing to come in and serve his country in the Government. 
I talk to colleagues all the time about one of the problems we have in Government today is it is getting harder and harder to get anybody to serve. Why? Because there is a perception that as soon as you come in and work for the Government that somehow you are going to be the crook. 
I would be real careful with some of the rhetoric on this particular issue. We made an exception with Mr. Rossotti as a consequence and concerns about conflict of interest, and we didn't ask the Office of Government Ethics to comment on him, but we did on this one because many in the committee don't like this idea of having an employee representative on the board, nor does Government Ethics. 
Let me talk about this idea of conflict of interest. According to the Office of Government Ethics, at least 609 exemptions under section 208(d)(1) were granted in 1997. Why? It is very important to understand. Why did we grant an exemption? The answer is because we have an interest. There is an important interest involved here, something that we want to do. So we find ourselves saying the interest is not so substantial as to be deemed likely to affect the integrity of the services which a government may expect from such officer or employee. That is the standard we use. 
There were 609 exemptions granted because we have an interest in making certain that something gets done. That is what we have here. One of the worst excuses--I used to be in business before I got into politics. One of the reasons I got into politics is I got worn out listening to people say, `I know what you are asking for is right, but, gosh, if I have to do it for you, then I have to do it for everybody.' 
There is nothing more frustrating than to have somebody say, `I don't want to set a dangerous precedent here.' 
We need to decide what is right. Is it in the Nation's interest in an effort to restructure the IRS that is going to require significant and, I argue, traumatic personnel decisions, to have a representative of the Treasury employees' association on there? They represent 95 percent of over 100,000 employees. And we answered yes. The House answered yes. The Restructuring Commission answered yes, because there is an interest that we have. 
Do we waive all conflict of interest requirements? Members should remember, every member of this board has to be recommended by the President and confirmed by the Senate. We all know around here, you can file a hold on anybody for any reason you want. If there is a conflict of interest, file a hold. That individual is likely never to get confirmed. In addition, for cause this individual can be removed at any time. 
The President can remove the individual from the board as a consequence of something they see they don't like, something they see they view as a perception of a conflict of interest, let alone a real conflict of interest. 
Lastly, I will say if this individual is guilty of a conflict of interest, there will be charges filed against him or her and, indeed, every single member of this board is going to have to file an annual report indicating what their financial holdings are in order to avoid a conflict of interest. 
Again, we all understand it is getting increasingly difficult to get people to serve because of the invasive nature of the examination. Talk to a friend of yours who has had an FBI background investigation. Gosh, they are out there talking to people you knew in the fourth grade. You wouldn't want to talk to people I knew in the fourth grade to find out whether I am going to be able to serve on some board or commission. 
Let me just list for colleagues who are worried about this conflict of interest--we decided there is an overriding interest to have an employee representative on there as a consequence of the tremendous and traumatic changes that are going to occur over the next couple of years as the new authorities of this Commissioner are used to reorganization and restructure the IRS. 
In addition, this representative is going to be required to have full, public, financial disclosure by the employee organization represented. All members of this oversight board will be required to do that. In addition, the employee organization is required to file detailed financial information with the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee. The information would include membership dues and compensation of all employees. 
In addition, it requires the employee representative to be subject to all the conflict of interest statutes applicable to special Government employees, except to the extent they apply to the employee organization. 
Mr. President, as Members no doubt know, we have a bill and a thing called a report. It says, `The Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998, April 22, 1998: Ordered to be printed; Mr. Roth, from the Committee on Finance, submitted the following Report.' 
This report describes the rationales and reasons for doing all these things. Let me read to colleagues who are wondering about this thing and really whether or not you want an employee representative on this board. As I said, if you do, you have to give that individual the authority and power to be able to do something, and we have made a judgment as a consequence of that overriding interest that we are going to write language in here that deals with apparent conflict. It doesn't waive all other conflicts, as I have just tried to address. But even the report does that. Let me read it to you:  
In general, the bill provides that the employee representative or Board member is subject to the same ethical conduct rules as private-life Board members. 
Let me repeat this, because there is an inference in some of the statements down here that somehow we are waiving all conflict of interest rules. Not true. This individual is going to be subject to the same ethical conduct rules as private-life board members. 
However, the bill modifies the otherwise applicable ethical conduct rules so that they do not preclude the employee representative from carrying out his or her duties as a Board member and his or her duties with respect to the employee organization. 
That is all we are doing. We say there is an overriding interest. We have to make sure the employee can carry out their job, so we provide specifically language in here that enables them to do it. Otherwise, why put them on the board? 
In particular, the employee representative is not prohibited from (1) representing the interests of the employee organization before the Federal Government; (2), acting on a Board matter because the employee organization has a financial interest in the matter. 
They are precluded from conflicts dealing with procurements. They are precluded from taking bribes. They are precluded from all the other things that other board members are precluded from doing. All the rest of the things that all the board members are precluded from doing, this individual will be as well. Indeed, in the footnote, it says: 
Certain limitations to this exception to the otherwise applicable ethical rules would apply. 
The rules pertaining to bribery would continue to apply. In addition, the representative would be acting on a matter in which he or she has a financial interest. 
If some U.S. attorney, some prosecutor wants to bring charges against any member of this board for violating conflict of interest statutes, they are going to be able to do it. Everybody who has asked, whether it is by this President or future Presidents, `Gee, Mr. and Mrs. Jones, would you be willing to serve on this board?' They understand what is at stake. They understand the nature of American politics today. They understand if you walk into the arena willing to serve your country, you may find yourself saying, `God, I wish I never said yes. All of a sudden I am more miserable than I thought I ever would be, because somebody has an ax to grind or grudge to fulfill is going after me all of a sudden.' 
We have made a decision that we think as a result of the tremendous decisions that are going to have to be made by the Commission to restructure an organization that has 100,000 human beings--these are family people; these are people who have good jobs and are trying to get the job done. All they are doing is trying to execute our law. 
One of the most amusing things down here is to hear people talk about the IRS as if they think it is a Sears and Roebuck or some private organization. It is like the kiss of the Spider Woman. We are the creator of the IRS. We write the laws here. 
In response to the OGE's concerns, we put language in here, and even OGE says we have adequately taken care of it. They just don't want an employee representative on there at all, no matter what you do with the law. No matter what you do with the language of the law, they are going to take the position that an employee representative shouldn't be on there. 
Fine, let them take that decision. We made the decision we want that employee representative on there, and once we made that decision, we have to make certain we deal in a reasonable way so that with the law, that individual can do what we have asked them to do. 
I have great respect for the Senator from Alabama and the Senator from Tennessee and, obviously, the distinguished chairman of our committee. I hope this amendment will be rejected. 
I ask if the chairman--we have had two votes today, and we have, I think, somewhere in the neighborhood of 50 amendments that we are likely to deal with. The majority leader indicated he would like to wrap this up tomorrow night. I am wondering if we can get a time agreement. We have a couple others that are fairly contentious that it seems to me we need to get down here. 
I would hazard the guess that nothing I have just said is going to persuade anybody one way or the other. This is one where everybody has pretty well made their minds up. Maybe they will be persuaded because of the eloquence and the logical manner of the chairman, but I think this is one where people have made up their minds. So let us insert our statements in the Record and go to a rollcall vote so we can get to the final passage of the bill, as the majority leader wants to, by tomorrow night.  
Mr. ROTH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I hope the answer is no, for gosh sakes. We understand what the nature of bribery is. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I don't know on what basis the distinguished Senator from Delaware answers the question that, yes, it is like giving an exemption to bribery law. In our own report, we say the rules related to bribery would continue to apply. I mean, that is a red herring, raising the issue of bribery. Look, I feel like I am arguing the red queen here. 
We made a decision as a consequence of an overriding interest that we want a Treasury employee representative on this board. Why? What is the interest? Do you want to get the restructuring done or not? No? You are opposed to it? Fine. Say no. But our Commission heard from people, both in the private sector and the public sector, that have done this sort of thing. They said, `Folks, if you want to get the job done'--understand we're talking about traumatic changes in how people work. You can imagine, we would want a Senate representative on a board that was going to be restructuring this place. Do you think anybody would say, `Gee, we've got a conflict. We can't sit on a board that might reduce the number of people here from 100 to 80"? I don't think so. I think one of us would want to be on that board. And we would write to the 
Office of Government Ethics and say, `To heck with you. We'll figure out a way to get it done.' 
That is what we are talking about here. The employee representative will enable us to get the job done. We have to have a substantial reduction in forces as a consequence of this restructuring. It is going to be traumatic. It is going to be difficult. And over and over I have said we heard from both public and private sector people: Get somebody who's going to have to sell this thing on this board. 
So now you are left with the question, how do I do that? Obviously, they still represent the employee's union. Obviously, they still have a job responsibility out there in some fashion. Well, we have to deal with that specific conflict. It is not a carte blanche, broad-based waiver that includes such things as bribery. Come on. 
If you do not want a Treasury representative on there, don't put him on there. If you think the law is going to produce a conflict, well then, file a complaint, and go down to the Government Ethics Office and say this individual has a conflict. Any citizen is going to have the opportunity to do that. 
But I caution Members. That is why we are having a tough time getting anybody to serve. We go through this nominating process all the time around here, and we find ourselves with friends saying, `My gosh, I don't want to serve in that capacity. Look at all the things I've got to go through in order to be a public servant today.' 
Mr. Rossotti is a very good case in point--a very good case in point. A strict interpretation of the ethics rules would have caused us to say, `Mr. Rossotti, I understand that you are willing to say yes to the President, but we have to respectfully say no. We are just not going to do it. We're not going to allow you. You have all this private sector experience, all this management experience, but it's a conflict. You've got ownership of stock in a company that does business with the IRS, therefore, you're disqualified.' 
That is what we are dealing with here. The Commissioner of the IRS has a company that does business with the IRS. Now, can we deal with that? The answer is absolutely yes, because it is a compelling interest to get it done. Likewise, there is a compelling interest as a result of the traumatic change. 
I ask any Member here, again, if there was a board out there that was going to make a decision that could reduce in force the number of people in the Senate from 100 to 80, would we say, `Well, we don't need to have a representative on there because we have a conflict'? 
I don't think so. 
We asked to be on the board, and we deal with the Office of Government Ethics, and we figure out a way to make certain that conflict is narrowly drawn, because of the overriding interest of the employee representative on the board who will make these decisions. 
If you don't want the board, fine; I understand that. The Senator from Texas is skeptical about the board. Skepticism in many ways is deserved. You never know if the board will be great or not. I think it will be great. If you don't want an employee representative, fine; say so. But please don't get down here and say that we are doing something comparable to waiving the bribery statute. That is not what we are doing. 
We are going to have a very, very difficult time if this degenerates into a debate about loosening up our ethics law to allow all kinds of criminal conduct. We are not doing that. It is a narrowly drawn exception to enable the individual to do a job we want the individual to do.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, let me once again say that we make exceptions in order to accomplish something that we believe is important to accomplish. We accommodate the exception in order to stay within the guidelines of the Office of Government Ethics. We did that for Mr. Rossotti. He would not be the commissioner of the IRS if we took a strict interpretation of the conflict of interest law. We just would not do it. He would be disqualified, as would anybody with any real private sector interest or any real private sector experience. 
It is ridiculous, it seems to me, to suggest that we never make exceptions. This is an exceptional case. We make them all the time. We measure it carefully, and we take care to make certain that the other applicable parts of the conflict of interest law are still enforced. That is what we have done here. The Senator from Tennessee is quite right when he says, gee, you are making an exception of this individual. Yes, we are. Why? He is the only employee representative. If there were 7 employee representatives on the board, we would be doing the same thing for everybody. That is what is going on. We have one representative because there are going to be traumatic changes in the IRS as a result of new authorities we are granting the commissioner in title I. Look at the new authorities we are granting. 
I draw a parallel to this body. If we were granting some board authority to make reductions around here, we would want to be on that board. We would want to participate in that decision. And somebody would say we have a conflict, but we would figure out a way to deal with that, rest assured, if that were the case. That is what we have done here. We have not exempted this individual. Just look at the statute. We have not exempted this individual from all other conflicts of interest--only the conflict that deals with the fact that he 
works for the IRS. That is what we are trying to deal with here. If you have some specific ways you want to deal with that so you can get the job done, we can do it. To stand out here and say, gee, we are making an exception, as if that is remarkable, yes, we are and we are trying to deal with an exceptional circumstance, as we did with Mr. Rossotti in the first place. 
So, again, I say to colleagues that there is a threshold decision here. Do you want an IRS representative on the board at all? If you do, you have to deal with the concerns OGE has raised. That is what we have done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be temporarily laid aside so we can deal with an amendment to be offered by the Senators from Wisconsin, Mr. Kohl and Mr. Feingold, who have an amendment that both sides have agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-10-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from New York be able to speak as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-11-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the pending amendment be laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-12-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-13-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-14-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this amendment has been cleared on both sides. We believe it is a good amendment. 
I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-15-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I want to say to the Senator from North Carolina, independent of the subject matter to which he just spoke, that I see him and the way he lives, and he is one tough bird. I admire his courage and I admire the way he keeps after it. 
I just wish him the best of health. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, in spite of what the Senator from Montana just said, I continue to support his amendment. There is no rebuttable presumption on my part. I believe it is a good amendment, and I am prepared to accept it. 
I want to comment before the distinguished chairman of the 
committee rises to accept the amendment. I call to your attention that this title I consider to be one of the most important ones in the bill. I appreciate this may be the only amendment on this title. Congressman Portman and I put a lot of time and attention into it. I call to your attention that it starts off by saying:  
It is the policy of the Congress that-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth, and I will try to manage this bill so we can get it done tomorrow. There are what, 15 amendments approximately now on both sides. In order to get it done, Members who have amendments, I hope after we have our vote tomorrow morning, will stay on the floor and offer them so we can finish this bill. If we don't, it is likely there will be 
an extremely late session tomorrow night. Most of the controversial items on this piece of legislation really have been dealt with. We have the Treasury employees representative amendment to be dealt with tomorrow. We have the Treasury Secretary to be dealt with tomorrow. Most of the controversial stuff has already been resolved. I hope Members who have amendments will come down here with them as quickly as possible so we can finish this important piece of legislation tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I wonder if the chairman of the Finance Committee would mind. We don't have the amendment quite prepared. We may need to modify it slightly in order to deal with the difficulty we are having. I wonder if the UC can be modified so we could be allowed to modify our amendment. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the unanimous consent request be modified so that we be allowed to modify our amendments with a relevant modification. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, Senator Grassley not only was on the National Commission on Restructuring the IRS, along with myself and Congressman Portman and Congressman Cardin on the House side, but long before I ever became interested in this issue, Senator Grassley, along with Senator Pryor--indeed, Senator Grassley may want to offer some historical reflections on this--has been involved with trying to change the law and put the law on the side of the taxpayers, to give them more rights. 
I believe, I say to the Senator, the first taxpayers' bill of rights legislation was enacted, was it 1994? I ask the Senator from Iowa, the first taxpayers' bill of rights--I know Taxpayers' Bill of Rights II was 1996. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The Senator from Iowa and Senator Pryor were partners in developing that legislation. Did the two of you work together on the Taxpayers' Bill of Rights II? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Both of those pieces of legislation were landmark bills. The reason they were landmark bills is they laid a foundation upon which we are building this legislation. All of title III, which adds additional powers to what the taxpayers will be granted, was added as a consequence of evaluating whether or not the Taxpayers' Bill of Rights II has gone as far as we want to go. 
I say that because a lot of colleagues have come up and said, `Well, does this legislation go too far; does it give taxpayers so many new rights that the IRS will not be able to do their job?' which is to collect taxes? `Is there any power left in the IRS?' And the answer is yes. 
All through this we have been conscious of the need to balance, and what we have been able to do is look at the impact of Taxpayers' Bill of Rights II. We can see additional authority needs to be granted to taxpayers. I think it is an admirable balance, and it would not have been possible to get it done without Senator Grassley's longstanding interest and understanding and leadership on this issue. I publicly thank him for making certain that we extend additional rights without undercutting the authority of the IRS to do what we have asked it to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Now let's do trade. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Likewise, Mr. President. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Senator from Minnesota. 
Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1186, the Workforce Investment Partnership Act. This is an initiative that I have been involved with since my days as Governor of Nebraska from 1983 to 1987, and it is something I am proud to see come to fruition in the Senate. 
All of us understand that in today's global economy, this kind of legislation represents an important step in helping individual Americans achieve their shot at the American dream. 
One of the most satisfying efforts for me is to help, as a public official, some individual acquire the skills they need to earn a good wage so that they can support themselves and their families. Investments such as vocational education, job training, and adult education play a major role in this effort. But in order to be more effective, these programs need to be streamlined and coordinated in such a way that they work together to provide individuals the information and resources they need to be successful in a job market that demands an increasingly higher skill level. 
In 1994, along with Senator Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas, I introduced legislation to consolidate 91 job training programs into a single authorization called the Workforce Development Act. The bill also sought to reconnect job training, training-related education, and actual jobs. It also provided States greater flexibility in designing job training systems. 
Mr. President, I take great pleasure and am pleased that these concepts represented in this legislation are also incorporated into S. 1186. S. 1186 also encourages statewide partnerships consisting of the business community, the education community, the Governor, and local and State elected officials. A key responsibility in this partnership is the development of a State plan. The legislation also encourages one-stop customer service centers which will provide a central point of entry to job training programs. 
In the last few years in my State of Nebraska, Congress has increased its commitment to preparing individuals for the workforce. We have seen in our State an increase in Federal funding for job training of approximately $1.5 million since 1996; for vocational education, we have seen an increase of about $700,000; and for adult education, about $460,000. 
Mr. President, I would like to call this to the attention of my colleagues. I suspect, if they are like me, sometimes these program names get confusing, and I wonder whether or not they have any impact. 
In Nebraska, the $6.276 million allocation of Federal job training funds in 1997 provided 4,000 of my citizens with the skills they need to become more productive and to earn a higher living and satisfy the market demand, as the Senator from Vermont identified. There are many jobs out there that are unfilled simply because we cannot find people with skills. Mr. President, 4,000 of those jobs were filled; 4,000 of those people are happier. 
In addition, vocational and applied technology education grants assisted 70,000 secondary students and 47,800 post-secondary students who now have higher skills, a technical education they otherwise would not have had. They are going to get a shot at the American dream. They are going to be happier. They are going to be healthier. As I said, there are very few things that are more gratifying than having an individual say to you, `Thank you for helping me get a shot at the American dream,' and 17,340 adults in a single year were assisted in my State as a consequence of the $1.7 million in addition education. 
This is an investment with an excellent return. The legislation will not only help more individuals achieve the American dream but will also help our Nation become the best educated, most productive country in the world as we enter the 21st century. The Workforce Investment Partnership Act represents a good bipartisan effort to increase opportunities for American citizens. I look forward to seeing it move through Congress, and I congratulate and thank sincerely the distinguished chairman of the committee, Senator Jeffords of Vermont, and the ranking Democrat on the subcommittee, Senator Wellstone, as well as the chairman of the subcommittee, Senator DeWine. On behalf of the tens of thousands of Nebraskans who will receive the benefits of this program, I thank you.  
Mr. WELLSTONE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Will the Democratic leader yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Just to inform both the Democratic leader and the majority leader, it would be Senator Roth's intention and my intention at 9:30 to take up both of the funding amendments and to have two back-to-back rollcall votes at 10:30, or close to that, unless we yield time back, so you and other colleagues can plan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Internal Revenue Service Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 will touch the lives of hundreds of millions of Americans. 
More Americans pay taxes than vote. The perception of how our government treats us--its citizens--is rooted more in our contact with the IRS than with any other U.S. agency or entity. 
How we are treated by the IRS--and our tax laws--effects our perception of whether or not we believe we have a fair shot at the American Dream and whether or not we are a government of, by and for the people. 
During our deliberations this week, we must be mindful of Congress's complicity in allowing the IRS to become what it has become. The IRS is not Sears & Roebuck--we are its Board of Directors. We write the tax laws, we are responsible for the oversight and it was on our watch that the IRS became the mess we now try to clean up. 
Mr. President, I remind my colleagues that Congress has changed the tax code 63 times since 1986, and these changes have created a tax code that costs the American taxpayers $75 billion a year to comply. We do so without considering the cost for the IRS to administer it, and without considering the cost for taxpayers to comply. If you doubt that we have made things difficult I challenge you to take a look at this year's Schedule D on capital gains and losses. A few years back Dave Barry noted that we were making progress in our mission to `develop a tax form so scary that merely reading it will cause the ordinary taxpayer's brain to explode.' He cited Schedule J, Form 118 `Separate Limitation Loss Allocations and Other Adjustments Necessary to Determine Numerators of Limitation Fractions, Year-End Recharacterization Balances and Overall Foreign Loss Account Balances.' If that is not complicated enough, I'd suggest he go back and take a look at this year's Schedule D. 
The American public knows that Congress plays a leading role in all of this. In a recent poll, 72 percent of Americans blamed Congress for the ills of the IRS, and not the IRS itself. 
According to a special Harris Poll conducted on April 15th, `[t]ax evasion is believed by most people to be more widespread than harassment by the IRS.' The poll also found that by a margin of 50 to 33 percent, Americans believe more people `get away with not paying all the taxes they should' than pay `all their taxes and are unfairly harassed by the IRS.' Willful noncompliance with our tax laws cost those of us who do comply an estimated $100 billion annually. IRS Commissioner Rossotti testified last week that taxpayer noncompliance costs the individual American taxpayer $1,600 annually. 
Today 85 percent of Americans comply with our tax laws willfully, without incident. If we do not adequately address the issue of noncompliance, we will be sending the wrong message. 
It is our responsibility to not only change the culture at the IRS so that those who do comply are treated fairly and with respect, but we must also change the law to allow Commissioner Rossotti the authority to make the changes he needs to and to provide the IRS with the proper resources to catch those who choose to break the law. 
I urge my colleagues to consider the overall importance of the bill before us this week. What we do will have a profound impact on the IRS, how Congress writes tax law and how Americans perceive this body and our government. 
Let us move forward, swiftly and in a cooperative manner, and give the IRS the overhaul it needs, provide the congressional oversight that is required, the IRS Commissioner the statutory authority he lacks, and the taxpayers the relief they deserve. 
Mr. President, I know from the hearings in the Finance Committee held by the distinguished chairman, Senator Roth, last September, and over the last several weeks--very, very needed and very, very worthwhile oversight hearings--that among other things which were focused on in those hearings were the actions taken by the Criminal Investigation Division. I know that there were an awful lot of citizens--in fact, every single member of the Finance Committee--who were outraged listening to some of the stories told about how the strong arm of the law was used to go after not necessarily innocent but certainly taxpayers that were not a threat to the life and limb of their neighbors. There was a substantial amount of force used in all of the cases. I don't pass judgment as to whether or not the IRS was right in the claim itself. But there is no question that there are times when the IRS uses more force than is necessary to carry out its function under the Criminal Investigative Division. 
We hope that the changes in our law and instructions to Commissioner Rossotti will enable us to reduce and eliminate that kind of excessive use of force. Mr. Rossotti himself has indicated that he is going to ask former FBI Director William Webster to evaluate the Criminal Investigation Division and come up with a set of protocols that will enable them to eliminate the times when they use unnecessary force to enforce the law. 
Let me caution Members who are outraged to be careful when they come and propose amendments to that particular section of this law. The caution needs to be based upon our desire, I hope, to keep the streets safe for Americans. It is my judgment that mission No. 1 for a government is to protect its citizens. We don't have public safety if we do not have citizens feeling safe when they are walking the streets, or when they are engaging in commercial transactions. If that doesn't occur, we have anarchy, and citizens not only are going to be quite concerned but they are apt to throw all of us out of office. 
All of us know that a combination of events has reduced crime across the Nation. Americans like that. They want to feel safe. They don't want to feel they are at risk, having people preying on them for a variety of reasons. 
The IRS is an important part of our effort to get that done. All Members who are concerned about the Criminal Investigation Division and who may have some changes they want to make in that division, I am likely to support those if it will reduce the incidents of force being used against citizens who pose no threat but will oppose those that I fear will make it easier for drug dealers, money launderers, and other sorts of criminals who are preying on the American people. If Members come to the floor and want to weaken the capacity of the Criminal Investigation Division to keep Americans safe, I will introduce into the Record, as I did in the hearings, 14 examples, and more if necessary, to show this body what the Criminal Investigation Division is doing to keep Americans safe. If there is somebody out in America who is a drug dealer or a money launderer, they don't have on their forehead `drug dealer' or `money launderer.' They are apt to look normal. One of the things we very often fail to do is get both sides of the story when we hear stories of abuse. 
I could bring every single person who is in Nebraska's prison system in front of any committee here in Washington, DC, and every single one of them will tell you the government abused their rights. There is nobody who is guilty in our prisons. They are all innocent. They are all abused by the government in some way, shape or form. 
So let's be careful as we evaluate the Criminal Investigation Division. We have Mr. Webster who has been assigned by Mr. Rossotti to examine their procedure and protocol, but let's be careful that we don't change the law to make it easier for people to prey on Americans to get their job done. 
All of us understand there is an amendment to the Constitution, the fourth amendment, that provides us protections against unreasonable searches and seizures. I am encouraged that many who have been silent on this protection that is guaranteed to all citizens are now starting to understand that it can be a substantial problem to infringe upon that fourth amendment right. But if a law enforcement entity has probable cause and gets an arrest warrant as a consequence of having probable cause that somebody is violating the law--a drug dealer, money launderer, and so forth--again, walk down the street. These people don't stand out for you and say, well, there's somebody who is a threat to our society. If they have probable cause, if they believe it is necessary to get a search warrant, they don't call that person up and say, hey, Jim, next Wednesday I am going to be over to get the evidence, because they know that unless they have the element of surprise, the evidence is going to be destroyed. 
I believe the legislation before the body today, the variety of things that are being done, will substantially improve the operation of the IRS and will give the American people better service, will shift more power to the taxpayer. In title I, there is a section I may end up reading on this floor. I am a cosponsor of the bill. It was originally introduced by John Breaux. 
The Taxpayer Advocate will be much more independent, have much more power, and I guarantee you that the taxpayers will know the independence that the Taxpayer Advocate has; that he will be required annually to come to us and say, here are provisions of the Tax Code that are causing the IRS special problems. These are problems and difficulties that we are 
facing as a result of the laws that you all pass and make recommendations for changing those laws. So that, again, the goal ought to be to write the law so that the IRS presumes all Americans are law-abiding citizens willing to voluntarily comply. They just want to know the size of their tax bill so they can pay it but reserve the authority and power of the IRS to go after individuals who either intentionally do not want to comply or, worse, are criminals who are preying on innocent Americans in a variety of different ways. 
I hope during the deliberations we will have a constructive debate. I know we are waiting for the caucuses to find out what Members are going to do with both nongermane amendments as well as germane amendments that could kill the bill. I say, again, the importance of this cannot be overstated. The citizens' confidence in Government of, by, and for the people is at stake. We now have a declining number of Americans who believe the IRS is getting the job done. It is one of the least popular agencies at the Federal level. We have a significant role in creating that unpopularity because we wrote the law to begin with. The law that governs the IRS has not been rewritten since 1952. It is long since passed the time it was necessary to rewrite those laws. 
I thank Senators Roth, Moynihan, Grassley, Congressman Portman, Congressman Cardin, and many others who have been involved in this from the very beginning. It started way back in 1995 when Senator Shelby, the distinguished manager, and I were managing an appropriations bill. We had attempted to fence an appropriation dealing with tax systems modernization in 1994. It failed. We got it fenced in 1995. We didn't believe it was enough. We saw the taxpayer money being wasted. We created in the appropriations bill the National Commission for Restructuring the IRS. That Commission deliberated with Congressman Portman and 16 other people for well over a year. Senator Roth, last year, picked the ball up and had wonderful oversight hearings, and did so again this year. 
It is time to get the bill passed. The House bill passed 426 to 4 last September. The bill that is before us today is a substantial improvement over that bill in what the House has done. I say on behalf of 200 million Americans who pay their taxes every single year, let's get this thing done as quickly as possible so they can have these new powers that they will have under the law and so the IRS Commissioner has the power and authority he needs to manage this agency. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I compliment the Senator from Louisiana. I have done it a couple of times previously. I was pleased to be able to cosponsor his legislation having to do with strengthening the Taxpayer Advocate in this bill. If we can keep the nongermane amendments off and stick to the business of changing the law to give the taxpayers this new authority and power with this one provision, the Taxpayer Advocate, it will be noticed immediately. 
This Taxpayer Advocate will be truly independent, with separate phone numbers, separate faxes, a separate operation, with the capacity to organize taxpayer advocates in each of the 50 States, to operate independently, not only settling problems that taxpayers have but bringing to Congress' attention repetitive problems that they identify that they think need to be solved by us either changing the law or changing some other procedures. 
We have had the Taxpayer Advocate created before under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights II, when it was created. The change from Taxpayer Advocate to National Taxpayer Advocate is not by accident. I hope colleagues have a chance to look at this particular section of the bill as they consider how we are going to proceed this week. Look at the language in this particular section and ask yourself the question: Do I want to give the taxpayers in my State this kind of Taxpayer Advocate, this kind of power, this kind of representation? Do I think that they will appreciate the changes they will see in the way IRS operates and the kind of service they get from that IRS? I think Senators will look at that and say, `My gosh, I don't want to slow this bill down. We need to get this thing done. We have waited long enough. We need to get this bill done so these new powers can be felt by the taxpayers in my State.' 
Again, I appreciate very much what the Senator from Louisiana has done. This is one of the most important sections of this bill. It is not in the House bill. Senator Roth, the chairman of our committee, talked many times about the need to make certain we took the House bill and made it as strong as we could. I was constantly pressing that we move in an expeditious fashion. This is one of several examples where the House bill has been substantially improved. 
I hope colleagues, as they look at this bill, will remember we 
are trying to give the taxpayers in all the States in this Nation new power, new authority, and an IRS that will much better serve their needs in a much more courteous and expeditious fashion. 
I yield the floor.  
Mr. GRAHAM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Wyoming for his excellent statement about the need for this legislation. All of us involved in this over the years, including the distinguished chairman, hope the debate that we are having will be constructive and lead to enactment and passage by this body as quickly as possible after conference with the House and the signature of the President for substantial new powers, and the reason to believe that this change in the law will improve the quality of service that every single American taxpayer gets, and cause all of us to want to make certain that this bill passes as quickly as possible. 
Mr. President, the legislation we begin debate on today--the Internal Revenue Service Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998--will touch the lives of every taxpaying American. The law which authorizes the federal agency known as the IRS to collect taxes affects more Americans than any other. 
Before I discuss what is in this legislation I must offer praise to several who have played key roles in developing the bill before us today. First among them is Senator Bill Roth, Chairman of the Senate's Finance Committee. Chairman Roth's enthusiasm for protecting American taxpayers who fear this agency, his desire to make certain the Commissioner of this agency has the statutory authority to manage it, and his willingness to accommodate the ideas of all members of his committee made it possible to produce a unanimous vote of support. 
Likewise, Senator Moynihan, our ranking member stood steadfastly with our Chairman to make certain our rhetorical excesses did not lead to changes in the law which would have the perverse effect of increasing the tax burden on law abiding Americans who experience no difficulty with the IRS. One of the most difficult judgments we have to make is to separate the legitimate and constructive complaint from those who simply do not want to pay their taxes. To paraphrase H.L. Mencken: `Injustice is not so difficult to bear as people say; it is justice that is difficult to bear.' 
In addition I want to thank Senator Richard Shelby, Chairman of the Treasury Postal Subcommittee of the Senate's Appropriations Committee. His support in 1995 for the creation of the National Commission of Restructuring the Internal Revenue Service--along with Congressmen Jim Ross Lightfoot and Steny Hoyer--was in response to the IRS having wasted $4 billion of taxpayers' money on a failed investment known as Tax Systems Modernization. 
Mr. President, I also want to praise the work done by Congressman Rob Portman, who was my co-chair of the National Commission. 
Congressman Portman and I became partners in this year long effort during which we received extensive input from American taxpayers and experts on the IRS and tax system, holding 12 days of public hearings and spending hundreds of hours in private sessions with public and private sector experts, academics, and citizen's groups to review IRS operations and services. In addition to holding three field hearings in Cincinnati, Omaha, and Des Moines, the Commission met privately with over 500 individuals, including senior level and front-line IRS employees across the country. 
Mr. President, let me also congratulate the men and women who served on the National Commission beginning with Senator Grassley and Congressman Ben Cardin who cosponsored the House legislation. Together, we worked hard to ensure this effort remained bipartisan and bicameral. Restructuring this agency so that taxpayer satisfaction becomes paramount at the new IRS by making certain this agency initiates contact with a taxpayer only if the agency is prepared to devote the resources necessary for a proper and timely resolution of the matter is not a partisan issue. Americans of all political persuasions are demanding we change this law. 
Finally, I want to extend my thanks and appreciation to Secretary of the Treasury Bob Rubin and President Clinton. While our early disagreements about governance were getting public attention, Secretary Rubin was making substantial changes in the operation of IRS in response to the National Commission's work. Most notable was the decision to break with precedent and nominate a person with business and management experience to be the IRS Commissioner, Mr. Charles Rossotti. 
The last time this law was changed was in 1952 in response to the problem of widespread fraud and allegations of bribery. This time a key reason for taxpayer frustration with the IRS is the lack of appropriate attention to taxpayer needs especially when compared with service from comparable private sector financial institutions. To increase customer service without causing a deterioration in the IRS's ability to collect the taxes Congress has directed the agency to collect is not as simple as it appears. Multiple changes are needed. 
The key areas where this legislation makes changes are in executive branch governance and management of the IRS, Congressional oversight of the IRS, personnel flexibilities, customer service and compliance, technology modernization, electronic filing, tax law simplification, taxpayer rights and financial accountability. Each add to a whole which I believe will be noted by taxpayers as improving the service they receive and reducing the abuses they report. 
As we debate this legislation remember that the IRS collects 95% of the tax revenue this Congress uses to pay for spending this Congress has authorized. Last year we appropriated $7 billion to the IRS to collect $1.6 billion. This represents less than half of one percent of total revenues and makes the U.S. Tax collection agency the most efficient amongst all our industrial competitors. We would not be debating this bill if we believed that we could not do better, but it is useful to understand the challenges presented to the IRS and to give this agency credit for the successes it has achieved. 
Mr. President, it is also useful to remember that a majority of Americans (including those who testified before the National Commission) believe that when it comes time to apportion blame, Congress is more at fault than the IRS. And, given our enthusiasm for constantly changing the tax code and inconsistent oversight, the American people have figured this one out right. 
The just passed Education IRA bill for K-12 expenses, would be the 64th tax law added to the books since 1986 and will add significantly to the nearly $75 billion spent annually by taxpayers in an effort to comply with the tax code. It is also an example of how Congress passes tax law without considering the cost of administering this new tax law and its real impact on the American taxpayers it is supposed to help. 
The prospects are dizzying. I am not on the floor to argue the merits of this legislation, but I would like to discuss instead the facts of its results. This legislation allows for tax-free withdrawals from education accounts for room and board, uniforms, transportation expenses, or supplementary items or services, but only if these things are required or provided by the school. So this new law will not only require families to have a pretty sophisticated understanding of the law before they take their money out but will require the IRS to become even more invasive in their efforts to make certain that parents can justify their expenditures with detailed records. 
Anyone who expresses surprise that the IRS will be asking taxpayers to submit busfare receipts and clothing bills with their tax returns is not paying attention to the connection between the tax law and the actions of the IRS. 
And the confusion does not end there, because when the bill sunsets in 2002, we will have established three separate rules governing education savings accounts. This year, we have education savings accounts that can be used for higher education but not K through 12. Next year and through the year 2002, we have different rules which allow tax-free withdrawals from these accounts. After 2003, K through 12 withdrawals could be made, but only from the contributions and earnings from 1999 and 2002. 
So how will the taxpayers know what they are to take out is tax free? How will the IRS know and how will the IRS attempt to explain these new rules to taxpayers, and who will understand them? Indeed, will anybody understand them? But that is the challenge the IRS will face. We pass a law; they have to write the changes in the code; they have to disseminate those changes to the taxpayer; and then they have to judge whether or not the taxpayer is abiding by the new rules and abiding by the new code as written, as dictated by changes in the law that we have just passed. 
There are no shortages of examples of actions taken by Congress to change our tax laws that result in increased burdens on the American taxpayers coupled--and I say it again. It isn't just an increased burden on the taxpayer, but every change we make in the tax law says to the IRS: We want you to invade even more and find out more of what the American people are doing before you allow this tax break to occur. 
I urge citizens, if they are in doubt--we have the bill itself. That is what we are debating, a change in the law--Title VI of this law, this bill before us today, is called Technical Corrections. Now, most of these technical corrections are to the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. And lest anybody think I am down here taking a shot at someone who voted for it, I voted for the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. With an interest in saying that we balance our budget, I voted for the bill. But all the provisions and technical corrections are technical corrections as a consequence of confusion in the law, and that confusion increases the burden on the taxpayer, increases their requirement to go to accountants to figure out what the Tax Code is, and increases the likelihood when there is a dispute between the IRS and the taxpayer, the taxpayer is going to come to us with a complaint about the invasive nature of the IRS. 
I urge citizens to read what is called `Explanation of Provision' in the Finance Committee report, the much smaller document that is available to citizens as they follow this debate, especially those who are staff of Members on the floor. Read the `Explanation of Provision.' You get an understanding 
of the difficulty that the American people are having and why they are right to conclude that, in spite of our rhetoric, we have created many of the problems they experience with the IRS. 
Now, Mr. President, I would like to go briefly through the provisions of this proposed new law to make the point that Congress has finally got the message from the American people. With the enactment of this legislation, we will make dealing with the IRS much easier than it has been in the past. 
The first of the four titles is the most relevant. Title I, Mr. President, deals with executive branch governance and management of the IRS. In addition to directing the IRS to revise its mission statement to provide greater emphasis on serving the public and meeting the needs of taxpayers, there are five major changes in this title that deserve attention. 
First, the IRS Commissioner would be directed under law to restructure the IRS by eliminating or substantially modifying the present law three-tier geographic area structure and replacing it with an organizational structure that features operating units serving four groups of taxpayers with similar needs. 
Mr. President, this three-tier structure was created in 1952, and what the Commissioner has proposed to do is follow the lead, the recommendation, of the Restructuring Commission to organize by four functional categories--that is to say, individual taxpayers, small businesses, large businesses, and the tax-exempt sector. 
Under this structure, each unit will be charged with end-to-end responsibility for serving a particular group of taxpayers. Today, each of the 33 district offices and then 10 service centers are required to deal with every kind of taxpayer and every type of issue. The proposed plan would enable IRS personnel to understand the needs and problems affecting and protecting groups of taxpayers and better address those issues. 
I am going to digress a bit and talk about an amendment that is going to come before this floor to knock out a provision that would have on the nine-member oversight board a member of the Treasury Employees Union or someone who represents a large number of employees. This provision is why there needs to be a Treasury employee representative on there. This will require significant personnel changes. This is not an easy thing for the Commissioner to do. We, I think, are quite correct in putting in statute that we want him to do that, that we direct him to either eliminate or substantially eliminate this three-tier system. But this will require significant personnel structuring. I believe we need to have that representative on the inside of the tent when these decisions are made. It is much more likely that a satisfactory result will occur. 
So my colleagues will understand, both Congressman Portman and I support this. And support for the idea came from a number of other people who have gone through this, most notable of which is Australia. When they restructured their tax collection agency, they found lots of personnel issues that were surfacing, and they made the decision early on. They testified that it was a sound decision to put that employee representative on the governing board.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I appreciate it. I thank the Senator. 
The present-law structure impedes continuity and accountability. I emphasize this. This is one of the big complaints to the Restructuring Commission and the hearings that Senator Roth had. We heard repeatedly from taxpayers that they just didn't know what was going on; something would start and stop. They did not get continuity and accountability under present law. 
For example, if a taxpayer moves--let's say a taxpayer decides that they would rather live in Omaha, NE, than Portland, OR--a logical move, it seems to me. They decide they want to go from Oregon to Nebraska. Responsibility for the taxpayer's account would move to another geographical area. It would transfer to the Nebraska area. Every taxpayer is served by a service center in at least one district. So in addition to the new service area, there is a new service center. Thus, many taxpayers have to work with different offices on the same issue. Thus, again, they fail to provide the continuity. They fail to provide the accountability that everybody expects when they are dealing with any private sector organization. 
The proposed structure would eliminate many of these problems. Not only would this proposed structure eliminate that problem, but it is much more likely the Commissioner is going to be able to come to us with some real exciting changes. For example, by putting all small businesses together, I believe it is likely--every other tax commissioner that talked to us about this said that its likely the Commissioner will come and say, We have got 35, 40, maybe 50 percent of our small businesses that are paying no taxes but they are spending $1 billion or so, they are spending a lot of money, complying. We can reduce the cost of compliance without reducing the amount of money coming in to us by simply exempting a significant number of people. 
Likewise, if there is a huge difference between the problems faced in collecting taxes from individuals, most of whom have withholding accounts--and 99 percent of the American people who have withholding comply with the Tax Code. They are the easiest to collect taxes from. They are just trying to figure out what the amount is so they can get it paid in an expeditious fashion to factor it into the family budget. Whereas a large business, $600,000 to $1 million or more, they have a complicated set of circumstances, much more labor intensive, much more likely to have accountants and lawyers, and so forth, working with them. 
What the Commissioner is proposing to do is get rid of this three-tiered structure, and what we have done with this legislation is incorporate it into law. 
Let me say the chairman and I have had many disagreements about the timing of this thing. The Senate has made substantial improvements to its bill, and this is one of them. This is an area where we have substantially improved what the House passed by incorporating the recommendation of the Restructuring Commission to knock out this three-tiered system and go to a functionalized system. I predict that for small business, large business, as well as nonprofit, they are going to find a big improvement in the way they get services from the IRS. I think we are going to find happier customers and we are going to find ourselves with an IRS that costs even less on a unit basis than it currently does. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980430</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to offer my support for the Resolution of Ratification currently pending before the Senate. I do so with less enthusiasm than I wished, and more doubts than I prefer. 
I will vote yes because Poland, the Czech Republic, and Hungary will strengthen NATO's resolve and improve the chances that a post-Cold War NATO will be the same stabilizing force for peace it has been for the past half-century. I will vote yes because the requirements for NATO membership, such as civilian control of the military and democratic rule, especially domestic laws that protect minority rights, make it more likely that external conflicts are resolved peacefully. I will vote yes because the benefits of doing so appear, on balance, to outweigh the potential liabilities. 
My vote of support is also based on my belief that denying the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland entry after their expectations have been raised so high would do more harm than good. Further, I believe these three countries - on account of their passionate understanding of what life is like under the iron fist of a dictator--will stiffen the resolve of NATO to be a force for peace. NATO has no will to fight unless consensus can be achieved amongst all members, and it is the will to fight which will do the most good in deterring future military conflicts. 
Too often during this debate I have heard the argument of some advocates who presume enlargement as a necessary insurance policy against the risk of Russia becoming an expansionist military threat again. These proponents often speak as if the circumstances of 1998 closely resembled those in Europe when NATO was created. 
This vision is flawed. It is flawed because it misrepresents the comparative conditions of 1949 and 1998. It results in the subordination of other more important foreign policy goals such as assisting the Russian transition to democracy, reducing nuclear weapons, and confronting the threat posed by proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to the less important task of adding three new members to a Cold War military alliance. 
Consider what President Truman and Congress faced in the wake of the Second World War. In 1949, when they led America into the North Atlantic Alliance, only thirty years separated them from the end of the Great War, the war which was supposed to end all wars. Only twenty years had separated the end of this terrible war and the beginning of the next. Twenty years. Imagine what our attitudes would be if a war as savage and futile as World War I had been concluded on November 11, 1968, and then in 1988, the enemy we had vanquished rose to the attack again. 
Both those wars were within memory's reach of President Truman and the Congress on April 4, 1949 when the Washington Treaty was signed. Europe lay in ruins. Their economies had been destroyed. Food and medical supplies were in short supply. Political uncertainty and instability were the order of the day. The Red Army was threatening in the east and their belligerence well established by the Communist coup d'etat in Prague in February 1948 and the Berlin Blockade which began in June 1948. 
All of this combined to justify the creation of a powerful military alliance. It is worth noting that even with these factors, NATO at first had no military structure. Only after the Korean War began in June 1950, did the idea of a worldwide communist offensive gain credibility. This led to the establishment of a NATO military force, the major element of which is the Allied Command Europe. In December 1950, General Dwight Eisenhower was appointed the first Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR). The command's headquarters--the Supreme Allied Powers in Europe (SHAPE) - was located in Brussels. 
President Truman was 65 years old in April 1949 when the Washington Treaty was signed. But certainly he must have remembered the day in mid-January 1919 when he was bivouacked near Verdun, France awaiting the demobilization orders needed before he could go home. In Paris, U.S. President Wilson, English Prime Minister Lloyd George, and French President Clemenceau had begun their discussions of terms and conditions for peace. 
In a letter to his fiance, Bess Wallace, Truman had written: 
It's my opinion we'll stay until uncle Woodie gets his pet peace plans refused or okayed. For my part, and I'm sure every A.E.F. (American Expeditionary Force) man feels the same way, I don't give a whoop (to put it mildly) whether there's a League of Nations or whether Russia has a Red government or a Purple one, and if the President of the Czecho-Slovaks wants to pry the throne out from under the King of Bohemia, let him pry, but send us home . . . For my part I've had enough vin rouge and frog-eater victuals to last me a lifetime. 
Mr. President, in our modern age of see and invade-all journalism, this letter would probably have surfaced to embarrass Truman when he entered national politics a decade later. However, it is also likely that cameras manned by brave men and women would have broadcast 1919 street scenes of Berlin, Moscow, Paris, Warsaw, Budapest, Vienna, and Prague. I believe these scenes would have made Americans less anxious to withdraw from the devastating instability of starvation, demobilized and poorly led Armies, and the sudden 
collapse of the old order of the Kaiser, the Romanovs, Hapsburgs, and Ottomans. 
Yet only thirty years after he wrote this letter, Lieutenant Truman had become President Truman, and he faced a world that looked not all that different from 1919. As he considered what policy would guarantee the peace after 50 million lives had been lost in the Second World War, he saw a Europe as devastated as it had been in the First. He saw a threatening Soviet Union in the east. Withdrawal, pacifism, and demilitarization were the failed policies of the 1920's and 1930's. Political engagement and military strength were logical and correct alternatives. Forty years later, as communism collapsed and our former enemies embraced democracy, Truman's vision and path was vindicated. 
Mr. President, too many proponents of expansion have tried to cast this vote as a vote about our future engagement in the world. I am not persuaded by the preposterous either/or arguments used by these proponents. You are either for NATO expansion or you are for repeating the mistake we have made twice in this century to withdraw from Europe. You are either for NATO expansion or you are for appeasing the Russians. You are either for NATO expansion or you are for allowing instability to reign supreme on the European continent. 
What nonsense. If NATO were to disappear tomorrow--as it almost did by refusing to become engaged in Bosnia--America would not withdraw from Europe. We are becoming more and more connected through travel, trade, and telecommunications. Any comparison of the political, economic, and social conditions of 1998 and 1919, or 1998 and the 1930's should be greeted with raised eyebrows and laughter. 
Mr. President, many times during this debate I have heard my colleagues say that NATO has been the most successful military alliance in history. I do not disagree with their assessment. But the statement leads me to ask a question: why has NATO been so successful and what does that mean for the future of the Alliance? 
Ultimately, NATO was successful during the Cold War not for any military operation, but for its military power and the willingness to use it. For nearly 50 years, NATO has served as the vanguard of peace and security in Europe. For forty of those years, NATO forces stood ready to engage in the defense of Europe from the very real threat posed by Warsaw Pact forces on the other side of the Iron Curtain. The reason NATO was able to maintain the peace and never had to fight a hot war in Europe came from the recognition by our adversaries that NATO, despite the horrors of a potential superpower conflict, was prepared for real military action. 
Equally as important as the will to act, NATO commanders understood the importance of maintaining a formidable capability to fight. Throughout the Cold War, NATO's military forces were highly motivated, superbly trained, and equipped with the latest weapons and technology that made the Alliance a force to be reckoned with. 
Beyond the success of the Cold War, I believe that NATO has survived in the post-Cold War era, despite many predictions to the contrary, because it was prepared to change to reflect new realities. First, NATO has begun the difficult task of restructuring and downsizing its force and command structure. As we in the Congress are well aware, following three rounds of U.S. base closures, making the necessary decisions to downsize the military is politically difficult. NATO deserves credit for what it has accomplished in this area, but more work will be needed in the future. 
NATO has also been successful because of its willingness to address the challenges of the post-Cold War world. NATO has made significant progress in tackling difficult new issues such as arms control, regional ethnic instability, and creating partners out of former enemies. In this final area, the Partnership for Peace program has made tremendous progress in encouraging civilian control of the military and promoting military transparency, each of these essential in creating greater confidence between nations. 
Each of these steps have contributed to transforming NATO into the Alliance that we have today, an Alliance that serves the interests of each of its members and promotes cooperation and stability. However, as NATO officials admit, the Atlantic Alliance must continue to evolve. We must ask ourselves: what must NATO do now if it is to be relevant in the future? 
First, NATO must continue with the difficult work of reforming its force and command structure to reflect changes in its mission and strategic concept. Second, as during the Cold War, NATO must maintain a credible force and the will to use that force when diplomacy fails. These are the core elements of the Alliance that must be carried into the future. 
But I believe NATO must also be prepared to take on new missions. It will have to be ready to address future threats to regional stability like Bosnia in an efficient and timely manner. Mr. President, the true lesson of the Dayton Accords is that sometimes force, or the credible threat of force, precedes diplomacy. I do not believe the Dayton Accords would have been possible had NATO not reached consensus to respond militarily, albeit late, to Serbian aggression in Bosnia. I hope we have learned the lesson of Bosnia, and I hope these three new members will help strengthen our will to react to Bosnia-style aggression in the future. The recent memory of the Solidarity movement, the moral leadership of President Vaclav Havel, and the impact of the 1956 uprising in Hungary will be extremely beneficial contributions to the diplomatic decision-making that occurs in Brussels. We may find the newest members of the Alliance will soon play a critical role in leading NATO into the future. 
Mr. President, having addressed the history and future of the Alliance, let me restate that I will vote in favor of this Resolution of Ratification because I believe that NATO enlargement is a positive step forward for the three invitees and for the future of the NATO alliance. 
The enlargement of NATO to include Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic is a statement of the success of their transition to free-market democracies. Each of these countries have experienced the peaceful transitions of democratic government, established the rule of law in the interaction of people and institutions, and implemented strong civilian control of their militaries. We should not forget the difficulty with which each of these countries has made these changes, nor should we underestimate the political leadership that was necessary to make the decisions involved in transforming from a command-style economy to free-market democracy. 
Mr. President, NATO membership, along with eventual membership in the European Union, will re-establish their contacts to the West and help solidify the political reforms in place today. Furthermore, the benefits of collective defense will limit the need to reconstitute national defenses and allow for continued focus on strengthening their economies and rebuilding the infrastructure necessary to compete in the global economy. 
I also believe that these countries will benefit from NATO enlargement through the promotion of regional stability. The prospect of NATO membership has already caused Central European nations to re-examine their relationships with one another and to address age-old political and ethnic disputes. The resulting treaties and bi-lateral agreements will lessen the chance of border and ethnic conflicts in the region after these three nations become full members of the Alliance. 
Mr. President, I also believe NATO will benefit from the inclusion of new members. Each of these countries will bring a unique set of capabilities to the Alliance. To be sure, each still needs to make significant progress in bringing their militaries up to NATO standards, but they are not starting from zero. Initial estimates show that following their own military restructuring, these countries will bring an additional 280,000 troops to the Alliance; this will undoubtedly boost NATO's ability to perform future missions. 
An example of this enhanced capability for NATO can be seen in the contribution each of these three countries have made to the IFOR/SFOR mission in Bosnia. Poland is currently providing SFOR an airborne infantry battalion, the Czech Republic has provided an engineering company and is maintaining a mechanized infantry battalion, and Hungary has contributed an engineering battalion. Hungary has also leased the Taszar airbase to the United States which provides a critical point of entry for U.S. forces into Bosnia. I am confident that when these countries become full members of NATO, we can expect that they will continue to provide a strong commitment to NATO operations. 
In my duties as Vice Chairman of the Intelligence Committee, I joined with my colleagues in reviewing the security consequences of bringing Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic into the Alliance. 
In directing this review, Senator Shelby and I did not for a moment suspect the sincerity or the commitment of these countries to be loyal members of the Alliance. But because some of their intelligence professionals and other military and civilian personnel had served in similar positions when their countries were dominated by the Soviet Union, we felt duty-bound to examine how well these countries would meet NATO security requirements, especially with regard to handling NATO classified information and protecting intelligence sources and methods. We determined that, even in these narrow security terms, the new members will be a major net gain for the Alliance. They have the expertise and the dedication to protect the information which NATO will share with them, and they bring intelligence capabilities to the Alliance which will make NATO stronger. 
To help measure and assist the transition of the new members to NATO security standards, Senator Shelby and I proposed a condition to the resolution of ratification which would require two reports: one to be rendered by the President next January on the progress of the new members in meeting NATO security requirements, and another to be rendered in phases by the Director of Central Intelligence identifying the latest security procedures and requirements of the new allies and assessing how they compare with those of other NATO members. In my view, these reporting 
requirements are prudent and should help the expanded Alliance more quickly reach a common security standard. 
Mr. President, I am encouraged by the prospect of membership for these three countries. However, this is a major change in U.S. policy, and a very real commitment that should not be entered into without a full understanding of its meaning. The American people must understand that membership in NATO for Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic carries with it all of the commitments of the 1949 Washington Treaty. In particular, by ratifying this change to the Washington Treaty, the United States extends full Article V protection to each of these countries. 
Article V states:  
The Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all; and consequently they agree that, if such an armed attack occurs, each of them . . . will assist the Party or Parties so attacked by taking forthwith, individually and in concert with the other Parties, such actions it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area. 
The quantitative result of this treaty is that the United States has pledged to defend an additional 15% of European territory in the event of an attack. The qualitative result is that we as Americans pledge to send our young soldiers to defend Warsaw, Prague, and Budapest. However, let me state, Mr. President, my firm belief that enlargement of the Alliance will in fact reduce our chances of having to fight a war in this region of the world. By solidifying democratic reforms, encouraging regional cohesion through the Partnership for Peace program, and limiting the need for national defenses, we will promote cooperation and limit the threat of war. 
Like many of my colleagues, I also have concerns about the costs associated with NATO enlargement. Wide discrepancies in the assumptions on which the various cost estimates have been based have left us with, at best, an incomplete view of what enlargement will cost current and future members. I am hopeful that after the vote, the Administration will continue to work closely with Congress to address our remaining concerns regarding costs. At a time in which our military is being called on to protect against threats to U.S. security interests throughout the world, we must carefully scrutinize additional spending commitments. 
Mr. President, I am concerned with the slowness with which the European Union has moved to address the needs of the new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe. I strongly encourage the EU to catch-up to NATO by quickly completing negotiations over their own expansion. In the long-run, the success of the former-Soviet bloc countries will hinge more on their ability to access the economic benefits of the EU than membership in NATO. 
While I support NATO enlargement for these three countries at this time, we must also ask how do we define our future foreign policy priorities. For the past year, members of the Administration have worked tirelessly to ensure ratification of NATO enlargement. I believe it is time for the United States to shift our foreign policy focus: our number one priority must become the successful transition of Russia to a stable, free-market democracy. I for one am very optimistic about the prospects for Russia. 
I think at times we suffer from the inertial effects of Cold War thinking that limit our ability to see the world for what it is today. Just as Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic are not the Warsaw Pact, Russia is not the Soviet Union. Russia no longer poses the immediate threat to our survival as expressed in Cold War rhetoric of Josef Stalin and Nikita Khrushchev. It is a new era, and we should use this opportunity to our utmost ability to work with Russia to ensure the establishment of the rule of law, to assist with the ethical privatization of state owned enterprises, to promote the continued development of the democratic process, and to realize meaningful progress on arms control. 
We already have positive examples of what cooperation with Russia can accomplish. Mr. President, few may realize the Bosnia mission is the first time in which NATO troops have participated in an actual military engagement. Few would have guessed during the dangerous days of the Cold War that NATO's first military mission would have occurred with Russian soldiers working alongside American soldiers not as the enemy, but as partners. The Bosnia mission demonstrates the potential we have when we work with a democratic Russia to solve disputes. Another positive sign is that in recent months the Russian government has stepped up its participation in the Partnership for Peace program and I am hopeful about the possibility for continued dialog through the Permanent Joint Council as established under the Russia-NATO Founding Act. Mr. President, I encourage both the Congress and the Administration to address the future of U.S.-Russian relations with the same vigor with which we have worked to achieve NATO enlargement. 
At no point in the future do I want to look back to this unique point in history and have to ask if we could have done more to ensure a peaceful, democratic Russia. Mr. President, I encourage all of us to take a long-term view of history. We should consider how the world has changed from the chaos and danger that led President Truman to create NATO in 1949 to the sweep of democracy that liberated Central and Eastern Europe from communist control. We should consider how these same nations have transformed themselves into stable democracies ready to become full members of the Atlantic Alliance. And finally, we should consider how we want the world to look in fifty years, and then set our priorities to ensure our children will have the benefit of living in that world.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to offer my congratulations on the upcoming 50th Anniversary of the founding of the state of Israel. Throughout Israel and the United States, people will gather together to commemorate this anniversary, to reflect upon the accomplishments of the Israeli people, and to look forward to the new millennium. 
Not unlike the founding of our own nation, a small group of leaders gathered in the Tel Aviv Museum at 4:00 on May 14, 1948 to realize a dream by formally declaring the creation of the state of Israel. Few Americans may be aware that within 11 minutes of that declaration, President Harry Truman had taken the necessary steps to offer formal diplomatic recognition to this new nation, making the United States the first nation to recognize Israel as a sovereign state. From that point, the United States and Israel cemented a friendship based on our common bonds: from cultural and religious ties to a mutual belief in the power of democracy to the assurance of a peaceful, prosperous future. 
Each time I have visited Israel, I have been impressed with the hope for the future expressed by her people. This hope exists despite the challenges Israel has faced from the moment of its creation. In many ways, I believe these challenges have helped the Israeli people create a society that serves as an example to all nations. 
It is a society based on democracy. In a region where the seeds of democracy have not fully taken root, Israel has a vibrant democracy with strong public participation. It is a prosperous society. Despite a wide variety of economic challenges, Israel's economy has grown to the point where per capita income rivals that of most Western nations. Finally, it is a society based on opportunity. Like our own country, Israel is a nation of immigrants. It is a nation that has gathered people from around the world with the promise of political and religious freedom. 
Today, Israel continues to face challenges as it prepares to move into the 21st Century. As the people of Israel seek to achieve economic independence, ensure their security, and create a lasting peace with their neighbors, they do so with the assurance of the continued strong relationship with the United States. 
Mr. President, the words Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion delivered in his address to a new nation still ring true today: 
Whatever we have achieved is the result of the efforts of earlier generations no less than our own. It is also the result of unwavering fidelity to our precious heritage, the heritage of a small nation that has suffered much, but at the same time has won for itself a special place in the history of mankind because of its spirit, faith, and vision. 
Mr. President, again, I offer my congratulations to the people of Israel on this 50th Anniversary. We share with them the bond of democracy and the hope of a peaceful and prosperous future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980423</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to offer my support to the Resolution being debated on the floor this afternoon. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this important statement of Senate support for the Northern Ireland peace agreement. Like my colleagues, I believe the settlement in Northern Ireland is an historic opportunity to bring peace to a remarkable people that have suffered from violence for far too long. And as a nation with deep cultural ties and personal attachment to Ireland, I believe we can all take a moment to be hopeful that a new era of peace and prosperity in Northern Ireland is now possible. 
First, I would also like to use this opportunity to offer my congratulations to our former colleague George Mitchell for his role as Independent Chairman of the multiparty talks. Despite long odds and numerous setbacks, Senator Mitchell has demonstrated diplomatic skills that can only be learned by being Majority Leader of the Senate. His actions have truly been a credit to our nation. 
Mr. President, for the first time in centuries there is hope that a lasting peace can be achieved in Northern Ireland--I think our words today fail to capture the importance of this opportunity. The agreements that led to the April 10 accord are the result of brave actions by both Protestant and Catholic political leaders, and the desire to find a solution to the cycle of violence that has virtually imprisoned all of the people of Northern Ireland for decades. I am confident, when given the chance to vote in the May 22 referendum, the people of Ireland will take the opportunity to send a strong message to their political leaders of their desire to continue to move forward in this process. 
In our euphoria over the recent agreements, we must not forget that lasting peace will only come with continued diligence. We must not allow the opponents of peace in Northern Ireland to use terrorism to destroy what has been painstakingly built so far. Mr. President, with our strong support for this resolution we send an unmistakable signal of our willingness to continue to work with any and all people in Northern Ireland dedicated to bringing about a peaceful and lasting settlement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980423</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I would like to talk about an exceptional, innovative effort in Nebraska; the creation of a $5 million Nebraska Cultural Preservation Endowment. Last week the Nebraska Legislature approved, and Governor Nelson signed legislation to make Nebraska the first state in the nation to establish a combined funding source for arts and humanities programs. 
I am very hopeful that this pioneer endeavor will safeguard Nebraska's cultural programs from the uncertainty of federal funding and private donations. And I have high hopes that this permanent state resource will provide the Nebraska Arts Council and Nebraska Humanities Council the flexible, broad-based kind of support that they need to do the best job possible. Moreover, the foresight, diligence and creativity of those who conceived of this venture will undoubtedly ensure that future generations of Nebraskans will benefit from a vibrant cultural life, historical tourism and economic development which this public-private partnership will foster. 
At this time, I would like to applaud the efforts of those who made this Endowment possible. Governor Ben Nelson, State Senator LaVon Crosby, of Lincoln, Jennifer Severin Clark of the Nebraska Arts Council and Jane Hood of the Nebraska Humanities Council are all to be highly commended. Thank you for your leadership, commitment and courage in this endeavor and congratulations on a job very well done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, for the first time in a quarter century this budget resolution is being debated in an environment, where rather than talking about getting rid of the deficit, we are able to talk with great enthusiasm about what to do with the surplus. We are talking about tax cuts and various spending programs. There is no question that the recovery of the economy of the United States of America--deficit reduction efforts in the past in combination with tremendous changes on the part of entrepreneurs and businesses and individuals out there--has produced the best economic scene I have seen in my entire lifetime, with increases in productivity, growth in the number of jobs, and a reduction in welfare rolls. You have to look long and hard to find bad economic news out there. 
In 1990, this Congress debated a deficit reduction act that was largely a result of President Bush's leadership. We put in place at that time the mechanism that we still use today. It has caps on spending that we, for the most part, have lived within. It is that discipline that is required by the law, it seems to me, that requires every time somebody wants to do a new program, they have to find a way to pay for it. You just cannot come down here and throw new spending on a budget or new tax cuts on a budget without having an offset someplace. It is that discipline, coupled with the 1993 act and the 1997 act, that I think the American people appreciate very much. It has produced enormous benefits for the American economy. 
But we are now in a state where, unfortunately, rather than merely talking about the easy things, we now need to start facing some very difficult problems that are occurring inside the budget itself. One of the things I find comforting in life is when things don't change. The most impressive force of all in that regard is gravity. It has an increasing impact upon me, my body, and my ability to move and so forth. It stays constant. I am impressed with it. 
One of the things that stayed constant over the last 30 or 40 years, indeed a bit longer than that, is that the percent of the entire GDP that we in Washington, DC, use for a variety of spending programs has stayed relatively constant--in the 19 to 20 percent range. This does not go all the way back to the years of the 1940s when, during the war, we went up above that 20 percent mark; but in the 1940s, most of that spending was for plant, for equipment, increases in the productivity of this Nation. Indeed, many have cited that as a principal reason the United States of America came out of the Great Depression, the significant investments that occurred during those war years. So you see that 20 percent figure stayed relatively constant over that lengthy period of time. 
This resolution that I have offered up requires us, the Congress, with a sense-of-the-Senate resolution, to look out in the future more than the 10-year budget window that we currently do. You may say why, Mr. President. The reason is that if you look out for 10 years, from 1998 to 2008, that takes you just before the baby boom generation begins to retire. You look out to 2008 and life looks relatively good. It doesn't look very difficult. It looks like we ought to be able to manage relatively easily, and the reason it looks like it is going to be relatively easy is that the number of the Americans over age 65 grows relatively steadily, from about 34 million to about 39 million in 2008. But, from 2010 to 2030, the number of people over age 65 grows by 30 million. The number of retirees will increase by 25 million while the number of workers only increases 4 million. 
What happens during that period of time is that the mandatory programs--that is the red, or the entitlement spending; and the yellow is the net interest, the interest on the national debt--they continue to grow until they completely displace the entire Federal budget, until it is 100 percent of the budget at that point. Indeed, in the year 2027, 100 percent of the budget will be mandatory spending programs. 
This is a trend. I heard some--perhaps most notably former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, who is on from time to time--criticizing this evaluation, saying there are going to be increases in productivity or immigration or other things that are going to take care of it. 
But it has not taken care of it yet. 
In 1963, John Kennedy went to Rice University. He gave a speech in the summer of 1963 in which he said that we were going to put a man on the Moon. Why? He said not because it is easy but because it is hard. 
In 1963, 70 percent of this budget was discretionary and only 30 percent of the budget was mandatory. In 1973, it had grown to 45 percent mandatory; in 1983, 56 percent mandatory; in 1993, 61 percent mandatory. And in this budget, 68 percent of the budget is mandatory and 32 percent of the budget is discretionary. 
Even over the next 10 years, the amount that is available for discretionary--and we allow it actually in the second 5 years to grow at the rate of inflation, which is not likely unless we are going to bust the caps in the second 5 years--at the end of that 10-year period, the amount available for discretionary spending will be approximately 26 percent. 
I ask any of my colleagues what that 26 percent figure means. If you budget it this year and say we are going to give the Appropriations Committee 26 percent of available revenue to appropriate, that will force approximately $115 billion in spending cuts. 
What is happening is that we are seeing our capacity to build our Nation's defenses, I say to the distinguished occupant of the Chair, who has talked about how our military is being spread pretty thin--it is spread pretty thin right now. We debate from time to time new things we want our military to do. Both our military and intelligence efforts are stretched substantially thin at the moment. But that is not the only area in discretionary spending where people come to the floor and would like to spend more money, whether it is on education, on health care, or the environment, or NASA, or Veterans Administration. On all these things, they may come down and say, `We have to fight the battle against crime, we need more people on our border, we a stronger law enforcement effort.' All of these Federal efforts come out of discretionary spending. 
Unless we as a Congress begin to understand these trends and the fact that they are not going to go away, it is not likely we are going to do anything about it. I observe the reason we are not doing anything about it, the reason we are not debating it on this floor, is we only have a 10-year view. 
The law says to take a look at 10 years--what does it look like in 10 years? Life looks pretty good. It looks like we can handle it. I challenge anybody to construct a discretionary budget with only 26 percent available revenue. Unless we believe this Congress is going to raise taxes beyond the 20 percent mark--which I don't think it either will or should--what we are faced with, even at 26 percent, is, it seems to me, the unlikelihood of being able to construct a budget with that relatively small amount. 
Unless we look out to 30 years instead of 10 years, we do not see this crisis coming, we do not see the problem coming. 
So what do we do? We do nothing. We do not even debate it or talk about it. Most of us have seen the movie `Titanic.' In the movie, people were on the bow, standing watch for icebergs, and they did not have binoculars. It is very much like us. We do not have binoculars either. We can see 10 years, but we cannot see 30. As a consequence, we do not see the iceberg that is out there in the form and shape of the baby-boom generation which, from 2010 to 2030, will convert 100 percent of the available money we will tax and collect from the American people--100 percent of that budget is going to go to mandatory programs. 
There is a price, a big price, for delay, and the price will be paid by the baby-boom generation, who will find themselves saying suddenly, `Oh, my gosh, I have two choices: Either I take substantial cuts in my current benefits or my kids have a tax increase' that raises their taxes beyond what is, I think, by any standard, a reasonable level. We will see demands on this system, in short, Mr. President, that are going to put us in a position where we are going to have to ask current beneficiaries, if we do 
not make reasonable adjustments today, to pay a rather substantial price. 
I know the distinguished Senator from New Mexico has talked about this an awful lot. In fact, he can blame himself for me caring about entitlements. It was he and Senator Nunn who used to traipse down here once a year and offer amendments. The first time the Senator from New Mexico offered an amendment to control entitlement spending, I voted against it. The second year, the light bulb went on, and I said, `Oh, my gosh, this guy from New Mexico might have something right.' And, indeed, he persuaded me the second year, and I voted with him. 
In 1994, Senator Jack Danforth and I chaired a commission for an entire year looking at the problems of entitlements, and I have not been the same since. I annoy people; I frustrate people. They can ask me what do I think about the weather, do I think Nebraska is going to have a good football team, and as soon as I talk about the weather and our great football team, I find myself immediately talking about the problem of mandatory spending and what it is going to do to our capacity to say that we are securing the blessings of liberty for ourselves and posterity. 
We are squandering, it seems to me, an opportunity to say we are endowing our future, and instead we are putting ourselves in a position of saying, `Make certain I get my deal covered, that I get what I am entitled to, and the heck with the future; don't worry about our kids.'   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an additional amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will talk for 1 minute. I see the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee on the floor. This is an amendment that this body ought to act on IRS reform legislation prior to our leaving for the recess. 
I believe this legislation has been considered long and hard. The taxpayers have a deadline of April 15; 120 million of them will have to file their taxes. We need to pass IRS legislation without delay. We need to give taxpayers new powers. I note with considerable interest that every single freshman in the House sent a letter yesterday to Majority Leader Lott and to Democratic Leader Daschle asking that the House bill, or something that can be conferenced, be taken up before we leave. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the taxpayers of the United States have a deadline of April 15. All of us know it. We hear about it when we go home. As I said, 120 million people have to have their taxes filed by April 15. There are 140,000 collection notices that go out every single day of the week. Every single working day that the IRS is in operation, 140,000 collection notices go out. 
There are approximately the same number of Americans who call the IRS every day. The way it currently operates is, about 40 percent of them cannot get through, and of those who do get through, about 25 percent of them get the wrong answer. 
There are many other reasons for to get the laws governing the IRS changed, and get them changed soon. My hope is that the chairman of the Finance Committee and the ranking member will meet as quickly as possible with Mr. Archer, Mr. Rangel, and Mr. Rubin. Let's get this bill conferenced as quickly as possible so that the American taxpayers, who have waited an awful long time for this piece of legislation, will get the power they deserve--indeed, the power they need--in order for them to have confidence that this is still Government of, by, and for the people. 
Mr. President, I thank you for this wonderful opportunity to speak, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980401</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will allow them merely to be accepted. I was going to ask for a rollcall vote on mine. At some point, my fear is, without a rollcall vote, I say to the distinguished Senator and chairman of the committee, it doesn't necessarily focus people's attention as much as it should. I am not sure it will by making them vote either, for that matter. 
I know the chairman of this committee is very enthusiastic about this issue and has spent a lot of time on it as well. I just think this whole budget deliberation occurs in a never-never land where we are talking about surpluses and talking about how good everything is and we literally are ignoring this enormous problem. 
As I said, the people who are going to suffer the most are that baby-boom generation, and they will find themselves in a heck of a dilemma if we do not act sooner than later. I appreciate the Senator's willingness to accept my amendment and Senator Burns' amendment. I agree to allow that to go forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, what is the current business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, do I need to ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. About 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Senate Finance Committee, since last fall, has been holding hearings on the Internal Revenue Service. We now expect to mark a bill up sometime next week, though we have not yet seen the bill. 
I appreciate very much the leadership of the chairman of the Finance Committee. However, Mr. President, I must say that I believe we are doing what is commonly referred to as `making the perfect the enemy of the good.' In other words, we are taking a good piece of legislation that passed the House last November in a 426-4 vote, which would give taxpayers substantial new powers. Over 100,000 collection notices are sent out every single day. There are over 238,000 incoming phone calls to the IRS every single day and, by some estimates, over 40 percent of them are not answered, and a very high percentage of those calls that are answered are answered incorrectly. The collection notices go out with no concern about whether or not negligence has occurred. So fearful are the American people when they receive a collection notice that former Commissioner Richardson--when she came before the Finance Committee this year, she said that her first paycheck came with an IRS return address and it terrified her to open it. She was the Commissioner of the IRS, and she was practically too frightened to open a letter from the IRS. 
About 114,000 collection notices go out every single day. The bill that passed the House would say that, if an error has been made, the taxpayer can recover the cost that they put into trying to defend themselves against the IRS. If the IRS is negligent, the taxpayer would be able to collect up to $100,000 in punitive damages. For the first time, we change the environment in which the IRS sends out its collection notices. 
In addition, the IRS would be required to publicly say: Here is the objective criteria for our audits. Today to get that information, you have to put in a Freedom of Information Act request. Thus, in the hearings we have had, both in the Restructuring Committee as well as the Finance Committee, through this Freedom of Information Act request, we had an opportunity to see substantial differentials between the bases of audits in one State versus another State and examples where the IRS agents were actually given quotas and incentives to go out and get more, even though there was no basis for it. There are all sorts of examples of abuses that are corrected in the bill that passed the House. 
The chairman of the Finance Committee is trying to improve that bill. I think that is terrific. He has a lot of terrific ideas that he has pulled from the hearings he has had. I think that is all well and good. 
Mr. President, I hope the Republican leader will say to the chairman of the Finance Committee that we need a process that will meet the deadline that the American people have. The deadline they have is April 15. That is after we go out of session next Friday. But for 120 million taxpayers, they have to have their taxes paid by the 15th of April. I hope we can put together an expedited process that would have the chairman of the Finance Committee meeting with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Archer, the ranking members of both committees, with the administration, sometime early 
next week, because if we can pass a bill in the Finance Committee and on the floor of this Senate which could be conferenced quickly with the House and signed by the President, we could give the taxpayers of the United States of America a tremendous bonus on the 15th of April--more power, more certainty that, if the IRS sends a collection notice out, they are going to send a notice out to the taxpayer that actually owes additional money rather than one that doesn't. 
In addition, this new legislation, again, was passed by the House with some good improvements that the chairman wants to put on this bill, which would give the commissioner authority to manage the agency. This is a terribly important issue, Mr. President. Currently, we have regions, districts and areas, and we organize the IRS geographically. What the Commissioner indicated he wants to do is restructure the IRS so that it is organized around the category of taxpayer--small business, large corporation, individual payers, as well as nonprofit. That way the Commissioner is going to have an opportunity to not only run the IRS more efficiently, but to reduce the cost to the taxpayer to comply with the Tax Code. By organizing it by category of taxpayer, the Commissioner has indicated, and I think quite correctly, that he is going to be able to say to some taxpayers that it costs us more to collect the money than we get from you; thus, we are going to provide regulatory relief, especially in the area of small business, in situations where the cost exceeds what we are able to collect, be able to manage the problems that large businesses have, that nonprofits and individuals have, in a much different way than we currently see. 
Next, with that authority, and especially with an oversight board that is independent from the executive branch, and hopefully a restructured congressional oversight--and, remarkably, some have actually proposed that we strike the consolidation of the oversight in the Congress. We had hearings in the Restructuring Commission with Congressman Portman, a Republican from Ohio, and I for over a year, and almost every witness said problem No. 1 is Congress. Remember, the IRS is not Sears & Roebuck. This is not a private-sector organization. They have 535 members of their board--the Congress. There are six committees that have oversight responsibility over the IRS, and what we were told repeatedly, both with anecdotes and with data, was that they need to consolidate the oversight so the Commissioner, with a new independent board, can meet and achieve consensus on what the vision and the purpose of the IRS is going to be. Why? For a variety of reasons, Mr. President. One is making certain that funding is going to be constant, but, more importantly, to make certain that the investment in technology is done right. 
This whole effort started a couple of years ago. Senator Shelby and I, in oversight hearings on the Appropriations Committee, noted with considerable concern that almost $4 billion of taxpayer money had been wasted in a thing called `tax system modernization,' trying to get the computers to operate, to talk to one another so the stovepipes would not prevent the conversations back and forth. 
Tax systems modernization, Mr. President, is very difficult to do, unless you have a shared consensus between the executive and legislative branches, with consolidated oversight on the congressional side and with an independent board that is able to act on behalf of the taxpayers. In that kind of environment, it is much more likely that technology investments will be made right. 
Most importantly, I hope the majority leader will instruct the Finance Committee chairman, let's get a meeting next week with Mr. Archer, Mr. Rangel, Senator Moynihan, and Mr. Rubin, and whatever we pass in the Senate committee, let's do it in a fashion that enables us to meet this April 15 deadline. 
Mr. President, there are important things in this legislation. I have behind me a chart which I call the IRS Reform Index. I will mention some of the things that are on that chart. The date the IRS reform legislation passed the House with 426 votes to 4 was 
November 5, 1997. The date by which the Senate Republican leadership promised to bring the IRS reform to the floor is March 30, 1998. I think the majority leader understood why it needed to be done then--because we need to set a deadline of April 15 to complete our work, and I very much appreciate that that in fact is what is possible for us. 
Still, if we expedite the process, rather than putting something out of committee that has no chance of being conferenced and perhaps won't be signed by the President as well--again, one of the worst mistakes here is making the perfect the enemy of the good. Since November 5 to March 30, over 17 million Americans have received a collection notice. That is a huge number of people who have received a collection notice without the power of the law that has passed the House, as well as some significant new powers the chairman wants to provide. That legislation would pass 100-0 if we brought it up quickly, 34 million Americans called the IRS since November 5, nearly 17 million did not get through and of those who did, over 1 million received wrong answers. We have 40 cosponsors in the Senate, and 14 of the Finance Committee's 20 members are cosponsors of the bill. All this is to say that, if we want to pass good, strong legislation and meet the April 15 deadline, there is absolutely no legislative reason for us not to. 
I am hopeful that sometime early next week the majority leader will talk with the Finance Committee chair and say meet with Mr. Rangel, meet with Mr. Archer, meet with Mr. Moynihan and Mr. Rubin; let's have a joint meeting so whatever we pass out of the Finance Committee we can pass here on the floor of the Senate, conference it quickly with the House, get it on to the President for signature, meet the April 15 deadline that 120 million American taxpayers have imposed upon them under current law. 
I thank my colleagues and I yield the floor. 
Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, due to an unavoidable delay in my travel, I missed yesterday's rollcall vote number 39. Had I been present, I would have voted against tabling that amendment.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Five minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I also rise in opposition to cloture. If you look out across America today and look at the growth in the economy and the economic success and the various reasons why we have that economic success, it is clear that one of the things we need to do is invest in our infrastructure. 
We just passed an ISTEA bill, $200 billion or so in investments in roads, bridges, in our transportation system to make it more productive. Our people are part of our infrastructure. 
What we are saying on this side is that, if you want to provide a tax break, we ought to also be doing something about our schools that are crumbling, about our class sizes that have grown too large. There is a lot more we can do than just this piece of legislation. That is all we are asking for. 
There is an opportunity to offer some constructive amendments that would substantially improve this piece of legislation. Otherwise, as many others have commented, the distributional analysis is lousy and it does precious little to help those who are in the greatest need. 
Mr. President, there is another reason that has not been mentioned on the floor that I want to talk about a bit. Our American taxpayers have a deadline called April 15 which is less than four weeks away. That is their deadline, their schedule. Under law they have to have their taxes paid. On the 4th of November last year the House, by a vote of 426-4, passed a piece of legislation that would restructure the IRS and give the Commissioner the authority to manage in a fashion that almost everybody says ought to be done. In addition to that, the House legislation gives taxpayers new power. If the IRS sends out a collection notice, you know with certainty that they better be certain that they are right; otherwise, they are going to have to pay your legal fees and other fees associated up to $100,000 of punitive damages. 
In addition, Mr. President, in the legislation passed by the House by 426-4 last November--which, if we had taken it up and passed it here, could be conferenced and down to the President for signature by the April 15 deadline. That should be our deadline. By the way, the American taxpayers don't have an Easter recess. They can't go home and say, `I'll see you after the April 15 deadline.' There are also new requirements in the IRS reform proposals that are on the table which calls for the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service to be present when we are passing new tax laws to speak out for the American taxpayer and say, this is what it will cost the taxpayer to comply. You have given a great speech about how this new tax break such and such and such and such, but this is what it will cost the American taxpayer to comply. 
Now, just listen to this new tax idea. Since 1986 this Congress has amended the tax law 60-odd times. When we continue to do it, talk about how complex the Tax Code is and why simplicity is needed, some of our greatest advocates of flat tax and simplicity are not wildly enthusiastic about something that will add substantial complexity to their tax returns. 
Let me walk through this education legislation, which allows for tax-free withdrawals from education accounts for room and board, uniforms, transportation expenses, or supplementary items and services, but only if these things are required or provided by the school. Now, this not only requires families to have a pretty sophisticated understanding of the law before they take their money out; it also appears that to be on the right side of the law, parents would need to be able to justify their expenditures with detailed records. 
Who is going to be checking those records? Will the IRS be asking taxpayers to submit bus fare receipts and clothing bills with tax returns? Mr. President, if they don't provide that information when they file, are we going to be asking for it in an audit situation? Don't forget that this K-12 provision sunsets in 2002. What does that mean? That means if we pass this legislation, we will have three separate rules governing the 
education savings account. This year, an account that can be used for higher education, but not K through 12; next year, through 2002, we have different rules allowing tax-free withdrawals from the account; and after that, K through 12 withdrawals could be made, but only from the contributions and earnings from 1999 to 2002. 
Now if you understand that, I am surprised, because I don't think your constituents will know. Will taxpayers know how much they take out is tax free? I doubt it. How will the IRS know? How will the IRS attempt to explain these new rules to taxpayers, and who will understand them? 
Mr. President, that is why the law should say that the Commissioner of the IRS is going to be at the table when we write a tax law, to give us an estimate of what it will cost. The majority leader of the House came before the IRS Commission, which I chaired, and said it costs taxpayers upwards of $200 billion to comply with the existing code--with the existing code, Mr. President. And here we are again--probably on the way home to give speeches about the complexity of our code--adding additional complexity. 
Mr. President, we are going in the wrong direction. This bill takes us in the wrong direction. We should schedule the IRS bill that passed the House. If we are not able to come up with a piece of legislation in the Senate, we need to bring the House bill to this floor, pass it, get it to the President for his signature, so that on the 15th of April the American taxpayers will have the power they deserve. Give the Commissioner the authority he needs. And, finally, get that Commissioner at the table when this Congress is taking up a new tax bill so on a piece of legislation like this we will have his estimate of what it will cost the American taxpayer to comply with some new idea that we have that we say is going to benefit the American people. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, the distinguished Senator from Georgia mentioned a filibuster. All we are asking for on this side of the aisle is a chance to do more. We look out in America and see crumbling schools and class sizes growing. We see a much bigger problem than you all see. So we are just asking for an opportunity to be able to offer amendments to this bill, and offer them in a normal, expeditious fashion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will let the minority leader speak to that himself. He has just come to the floor. In his absence, I was making the point that you-all control the agenda on the floor. You decide what comes up. 
I heard the chairman of the Finance Committee say that nothing is a higher priority than the restructuring of the IRS. We worked for 5 days on the Ronald Reagan Airport. We debated human cloning for 4 days. You have to decide what you want to schedule and what you think is the most important priority. 
In regard to the IRS, this education legislation will make our Tax Code more complicated, no question about that. You can't deny that that's the case. Our Tax Code is going to get more complicated, not less complicated. Under current law, the Commissioner is not at the table. The Commissioner doesn't get the opportunity to express a view, whether that view is against what the President wants to do or against what the Congress wants to do, or to just tell us what it is going to cost the taxpayers to comply. The bill passed the House on November 4, and since that time 16 million Americans have been sent collection notices. In the bill passed on the floor in November, the Commissioner has a seat at the table to talk to us about the cost of compliance, talk to us on behalf of the taxpayer, what it is going to cost them to try to take advantage of some new tax loophole, new tax provision that we are writing into law. 
That is all I was saying, Mr. President. I am also saying that, as regards the IRS restructuring, forget all other deadlines. The American taxpayers have a deadline on the 15th of April. Let's conform our deadline to theirs. Again, the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee has been a leader in this. He held excellent hearings on this and has been very straightforward in doing that. But the clock is ticking. Collection notices are going out. The IRS continues to operate. This bill was passed in the House by a vote of 426-4, including the vote of Speaker Gingrich, Majority Leader Armey, and every single Republican in the House of Representatives. It is a strong bill. The chairman has excellent ideas. Bring it to the floor and offer it as a managers' amendment so we can get it to conference and on to the President for signature--not for us, but for the taxpayers who are going to be subject to the power and abuse of the IRS as long as we allow the current law to continue. 
One additional thing. The Senator from Georgia held up a letter from, I guess, the NEA, National Education Association, talking about the distributional analysis. The cite I have been using is not from the NEA; it's from the Joint Committee on Taxation. It was the Joint Committee on Taxation that provided us with that analysis. We didn't have this analysis when we marked up the bill in the Finance Committee. Now we have the analysis. We have an analysis that shows what the distributional impact is going to be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss my strong concerns regarding the fiscal year 1998 emergency supplemental appropriation bill. I was extremely disappointed by last week's decision by the House Republican leadership to split the fiscal year 1998 emergency supplemental bill into two separate legislative pieces: one includes funding for defense and disaster relief and the other contains funds for the International Monetary Fund and payment of U.S. arrears to the United Nations. I was similarly disappointed that the Senate Appropriations Committee not only marked-up two separate pieces of legislation, but that funding for U.S. debts to the UN was not included at all. 
Mr. President, I am very concerned about the House and Senate legislative strategy involved in splitting the supplemental appropriations bill. I firmly believe that the Congress must act quickly to pass a single, emergency bill prior to the April recess. 
It is imperative that the Congress act immediately to supply the $18 billion requested by the administration for the IMF. I am pleased that the Senate Appropriations Committee voted yesterday on legislation that includes both the $14.5 billion to replenish the IMF's capital base and the $3.5 billion for the new arrangements to borrow, NAB, while encouraging necessary IMF reforms. The Asian financial crisis poses too great of a threat to the economic prosperity of the American people to allow it to become mired in non-related, political debates. As Secretary Rubin has stated, `Financial instability, economic distress and depreciating currencies all have direct effects on the pace of our exports, the competitiveness of our companies, the growth of our economy and, ultimately, the well-being of American workers and farmers.' To be clear, the growth and competitiveness of our economy is at stake. 
Mr. President, I am confident that the vast majority of our colleagues agree on the importance and the need to move forward with the IMF funding proposal. However, my fear is that while we are likely to see quick action on defense and disaster relief, a separate funding vehicle for the IMF is likely to get bogged down in non-related arguments. 
The American people have a right to ask: if there is agreement, why the delay? It appears that certain Members of Congress are prepared to hold funding for the IMF hostage to their desire to fight, yet again, the international family planning issue. 
Mr. President, I do not begrudge the concerns of my colleagues who feel strongly about the issue of international family planning. I recognize that disagreement exists. In my opinion, international family planning assistance is essential to health care in developing countries, resource and environmental management, and economic development. While I am confident that this is an issue that we will once again fight during consideration of the fiscal year 1999 foreign operations appropriations bill, I believe that it is extremely irresponsible to hold up IMF funding to debate this issue. 
Mr. President, the truth is I've actually begun to lose count of how many issues are being held hostage by proponents of the so-called Mexico City language. We now see reports that this issue will be attached to the conference report on State Department reauthorization, thus slowing up efforts to achieve much needed reforms in our foreign policy decisionmaking structure. Similarly, payment of our debts to the United Nations are also being held up over this same issue. At a time in which we are asking our allies to stand with us in opposition to Saddam Hussein, to force him to comply with the UNSCOM inspection regime, we refuse to pay our debts. It would be naive to think that this doesn't affect our ability to lead at the United Nations. It is time for real leadership in the Congress; it's time to move forward on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I close by urging the Senate to move swiftly to pass a single fiscal year 1998 supplemental appropriations bill before we leave for the April recess. The safety and prosperity of the American people and our economy is too important to do less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, let me first congratulate the senior Senator from New York. The only thing better than having the senior Senator from New York introducing this piece of legislation would be to have Franklin Delano Roosevelt himself out here introducing this bill. This does not just save Social Security, it transforms it into a much better program, as we have done through the history of Social Security. We have made it better as need requires. 
I am very much appreciative of your warnings through our public life of the things that you see happening. Very often we have not heeded your warnings and then afterward have come back and said, `You were right 30 years ago,' `You were right 20 years ago.' For the sake of future beneficiaries, I hope it doesn't take us that long this time around to realize you are right. 
Before the Senator leaves, I want to ask him a couple questions, because there are a couple things in this proposal--and I am going to speak about the wealth-generating nature of this piece of legislation. Indeed, most remarkably, there are an awful lot of Americans who do not distinguish the difference between wealth and income. 
I read in your hometown newspaper, the New York Times, from time to time about people talking about the gap between the rich and the poor, and they immediately go to income, as if wealth and income are the same thing. They obviously are not. I could have $500,000 a year in income, but if I spend it all, I have no wealth. Likewise, I can cite this marvelous story of Osceola McCardy from Hattiesburg, MS, who worked 63 or 64 years as a washerwoman, never made more than $10,000, discovered the magic of compounding interest rates. When she decided to retire at the age of 87, she called up Southern Mississippi University and said, `I want to give you a gift.' They presumed, no doubt, it was a doily or something that she made at home. It was a couple hundred thousand dollars cash. When the New York Times asked her how she generated a couple hundred thousand dollars cash on that low income, she said it was the magic of compounding interest rates. 
In addition to the wealth-generating appeal of this long-term--enabling our citizens to acquire ownership and wealth and the virtue that comes from that, as well as the security that comes from owning a share of your country and having an interest in keeping inflation under control and all sorts of other things, and the capacity to be generous with your own wealth and leave some not only to your children but perhaps to some other thing that you care deeply about. 
I was struck, as I read, again, your hometown newspaper this morning, that there is some division in the Republican ranks as well as the Democratic ranks of what to do with this so-called surplus, which, as you have pointed out, is nothing more than an overlevy. We do not have a surplus; we are just taxing people who get paid by the hour more than is necessary to pay the Social Security bills. In addition to the pay-go and the wealth-generating part, perhaps the most important part of this proposal is that it represents an $800 billion tax cut over some--  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Again in your hometown newspaper, it reported anyway--perhaps it is not--division on the other side of the aisle. Senator Domenici has a $30 billion tax cut over 5 years. Someone on that side of the aisle wanted a $60 billion tax cut over 5 years. I ask the Senator, what does this represent over 5 years in terms of a tax cut? Do you have that number available, or is it $800 billion? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I think one of the points we need to make to citizens who are watching this is that in the great tax debates that go around this Capitol, very often what we are talking about when we are talking about taxes is income taxes; people are debating taxes. For the median family of four--a husband, wife, and two children--they will pay about $2,700 in income taxes, a 
$34,000 median family. They will pay $5,400 in payroll taxes. So for them, the payroll tax is the largest tax. The income tax is a smaller tax and a smaller burden on them than the income tax is. 
So perhaps one of the reasons, when we debate tax cuts, that $60 billion over 5 years seems relatively large is that people have not paid attention, as they should, to the payroll tax. I just urge those who are wanting to give Americans a tax cut to look at this proposal seriously, because this is the biggest tax cut proposal anybody has put before this body that I have seen in recent memory. 
Does the Senator agree with that? Do you see this as a tax cut as well? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I also point out, Mr. President, since the Senator transitioned into that, that it would put it into actuarial balance for 75 years, there have been a lot of people talking about--well, let's take again this surplus, which is nothing more than an overlevy. Let's be clear, we have taxes higher than they need to be to pay the bills. We have had a lot of folks come down and talk about the gasoline tax. The gasoline tax is higher than is needed to pay all the bills. So we are struggling with this problem here; we have a cap on expenditures. 
The same thing is true with payroll taxes. They are higher than needed to pay the bills, but because we are using them for other purposes, it doesn't seem to bother us so much. 
In addition to that, some have been talking about using the surplus without doing what the distinguished Senator has done, which is to say we are going to make Social Security sound. One of the reasons that this is very often confusing is that people think that the only people who are beneficiaries are people who are currently eligible, which are the 37 million or so currently eligible. That is not true. Everybody effectively who is alive in America today is a beneficiary. They may not be eligible today, but that is a promise on the table for them. 
You can send in a form to the Social Security Administration and say, `Hello. My name is Bob Kerrey. I am 54 years of age. What will my benefits be if I take retirement at age 65?' if I decide I want to go out at 65. Or if I am 20 years old and just entering the work force, I can get the same thing. If you are 20 years old and you write to the Social Security Administration, they will say this is what is on the table, this is the promise that is currently on the table. 
Unfortunately, at the current level of benefits that are promised, the promise that is on the table we are not going to be able to keep. In fact, if you are under 35 today in America and you write to the Social Security Administration, they will say, `This is the promise that is on the table, but unless changes are made, that benefit is not going to be available to you.' 
I should interrupt myself and say, I very often hear people say Social Security isn't going to be there for you. As long as we have a payroll tax, it is going to be there. As long as there is a payroll tax in place, it is a program that is going to be very well established. 
I interrupt myself further to say, I find one of the most appealing things about your proposal, I say to the Senator from New York, is that you are saying the survivor benefit must stay intact, the disability benefit must stay intact, and we must keep a defined benefit program in place. All three of those conditions, as a part of an option to acquire wealth with a significant tax cut, it seems to me, make this proposal overwhelmingly attractive, especially for those who like fiscal responsibility. Yours is fiscally responsible. It is fully funded. There is no funny money here. There is no, `Well, I'm going to take the surplus and use it for accounts, but I really haven't figured out how exactly I am going to pay for it.' 
Yours is not only fully funded over the 10-year period, but it 
is fully funded for all beneficiaries for a 75-year period, which I find to be very, very attractive. For taxpayers who are concerned about not only today's Social Security Program but the Social Security Program 75 years from now, they have to find this proposal enormously attractive as a consequence of your condition, your valuated condition of saying you are not going to have any deficit financing here, you are not going to let Social Security go into deficit, and you want to make sure every promise we have on the table we will have in 75 years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I appreciate that. I don't know how long the Senator is going to stay here, but I appreciate very much this proposal, because coming from the Senator from New York, it is, I think, much more likely to gather the attention of Americans who understand that this is a gentleman who is a strong defender of the Social Security Program; he understands its value. 
One out of seven Americans who get Social Security have Social Security as their only source of income. Without Social Security and Medicare, the rate of poverty over the age of 85 would be 54 percent. It is 12 percent today. It is a program that has transformed America as we know it and has made it a much better country, a much happier country. It can be changed; it can be changed in a way that will make the program even better, even more able to meet the needs of the American people. 
Mr. President, I want to talk about one real short-term aspect of this Social Security problem, and that is that there are an awful lot of people out there--and I went to the President's first event over at Georgetown where he announced the discussion he is going to have, a much-needed discussion, during the year about the Social Security Program. He was introduced by a young woman who was, I think, a third-year law school student or second-year law school student. She was quite eloquent in her introduction of the President. 
She said when she first went into the work force at the age of 14 or 15, she went home to her mother and said, `Mom, who is this person FICA, and why are they taking so much money from me?' She then did a little more research, and she said she discovered that FICA tax is taken from her and kept in an account for her; it is money that is saved up for her. And she hopes that through this discussion the money she contributes is going to be there for her when she retires. 
I give her full sympathy for not knowing what the program is. There are a lot of people who misunderstand Social Security and think of it as a savings program. I am constantly talking to people and I have to say, `No, it is not a savings program. There is no account for you in Washington, DC, that is accumulating; there is no ownership here.' If you die before 65, or 62, which is the early eligibility--if you die before 65 or 62, there is nothing there that transfers to heirs. There is no ownership of anything. It is a tax on wages. It is used for disability, it is used for survivors, and it is used for old age. If you are eligible under the classification of those three programs, you receive a benefit. 
The way that we accumulate the revenue for those benefits is that we put a tax on wages. The benefits are very progressive. One of the things I noted in the questions and answers that the Senator from New York was engaged in up at Harvard, and one of the things we have to explain to people, is the tax is regressive, the 
benefits are progressive. Social Security, in the main, is a very progressive program. You can't look at Social Security and say it is regressive only by examining the tax side. 
I ask if perhaps the Senator wants to comment on that. Does he hear that, as well--people talking about Social Security as a regressive program and has to offer his correction? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, let me talk about the wealth-generating portion of this. We know this represents the largest tax decrease in the history of the country, somewhere between $300 billion or $400 billion over a 5-year period, an $800 billion tax cut overall, payroll taxes, a tax that for most Americans is the largest tax they pay. We know it establishes the solvency of the program for 75 years. We know it answers the question that lots of younger people have, which is, Is Social Security going to be there for me? We know it is fully paid for, that it is not only actuarially sound but fiscally sound as well. 
What is a new idea for people when they look at this program is, the potential to take Social Security and convert it, transform it into something in addition to survivors--I have to keep saying it because very often it gets missed--remains in place, disability remains in place, and the defined benefits program remains in place. 
But what we are doing is transforming it into something which, in addition to those three things, will now generate wealth--will generate wealth--for people. What happens in the process of discussing this is we begin to discover that this compounding interest rate formula that the Senator has referred to a couple of times as a real engine for wealth generation is a lot more powerful than we realized it was. 
Indeed, it is a mathematical certainty, if you have ever given a speech about the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer, which lots of folks on our side of the aisle do, they identify that as a problem in America. It is a mathematical certainty we can solve that problem. But you have to be willing to use compounding interest rates to do it, unless you want to give everybody a ticket, a guaranteed payoff, which is not likely. 
You can use the Social Security Program as a means to get the job done. I emphasize that because in the public press where this debate is going on, very often I get asked, `Are you for privatization?' That becomes the debate, privatization versus Social Security as a defined benefit program. I say, no, I am for taking a piece of this program and personalizing it. So the bull's-eye to me is wealth generation. 
The goal for me is in addition to establishing the solvency of Social Security for 75 years, in addition to a tax cut which you accomplish by making it a pay-as-you-go system, I want Americans, regardless of their income, whether they are making $5.15 an hour or $115 an hour, regardless of their income, I want them to know, if they are willing to go out and go to work, they are going to have a shot at the American dream of having ownership and acquiring wealth. 
I want them to be connected to the future by knowing if they are going to go to work, that with absolute certainty, they are going to have wealth at the end of it. Can you connect that with private pension reform and tax reform, as the Senator from Delaware has advocated for a number of years? The answer is yes. But you can also take Social Security and make it a source of wealth. 
Just at 2 percent, again, the median family income of $34,000 will generate close to $400,000 over a 45-year working life. In my legislation, I also allow people--in fact, I require the opening of a $1,000 account at birth and to contribute $500 a year to that account for the first 5 years. 
The Senator from Louisiana and I and the Senator from Connecticut had a program we offered last year called KidSave which would do that. It passed the Senate and was dropped in conference. But the goal here is not just savings. The goal is wealth. The goal is to say, if you are willing to go to work, there is a Federal law that will enable you to acquire over the course of your working life wealth and the independence and the security and all the other sorts of things that come with wealth. 
There are lots of benefits from that for the individual, and it ought to be obvious. When we debated the budget, I recall the other side of the aisle wanted as one of the top priorities---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will take 30 seconds to conclude. 
When we debated the Balanced Budget Act last year, one of the big issues was the inheritance tax. Well, only 1.5 percent of Americans have estates over $600,000--1.5 percent. That means 98.5 percent have less. For all those who are enthusiastic about raising that threshold--I voted for it and I thought the threshold ought to be raised--I call on them now, on behalf of the 98.5 percent whose estates are under $600,000, to embrace this proposal to help them with the means to acquire wealth and what I think Social Security should provide. 
Mr. BREAUX addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Three minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I would like to commend my Democrat and Republican colleagues for their hard work in creating a transportation bill that will reduce traffic congestion, make our roads safer, and protect the U.S. environment. ISTEA, the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act, is one of the most important items on the legislative agenda of the 105th Congress. 
The American people deserve nothing less than a world-class transportation system that will facilitate economic growth and improve transportation safety. This bill achieves that goal in a fair manner and guarantees that America's transportation infrastructure will be vital well into the next century. 
ISTEA is an investment in people and in communities. The Nation's transportation systems move $6 trillion worth of goods every year. Behind every one of the products that makes up that $6 trillion stands a hard-working person pursuing the American dream. ISTEA will create jobs and add to the productive capacity of our workers and the economy by enabling businesses to market their products quickly and efficiently. The American people have challenged us to provide infrastructure that can meet the transportation needs of one of the strongest economies of the world. With this bill, we are meeting their challenge by providing them the sources necessary to create and maintain the transportation infrastructure that will keep America strong. 
One of my top transportation priorities has been improving safety on America's roads and highways. Mr. President, 41,000 Americans are killed every year in traffic accidents. We can reduce this horrifying number by concentrating our resources on high-risk roads and dangerous intersections. We know, for example, that rural two-lane roads account for more than half of all traffic and nearly three-quarters of traffic fatalities. Better engineering and planning can reduce the accidents that repeatedly occur on these dangerous roads. 
I introduced several amendments to address this very serious problem. The first amendment systematically makes safety a priority consideration in highway construction and maintenance programs. This language sends a strong message to Federal, State, and local transportation planners that they need to focus on enhancing safety. The second amendment establishes a two-lane highway safety program to begin systematic reconstruction of rural two-lane arterial highways that are not a part of the National Highway System. 
Mr. President, I intend to speak at greater length on this when the opportunity comes to offer this amendment. It has not yet been accepted. I understand that it can be controversial because of the need to shift money from one area to another. Given the numbers of traffic fatalities on these roads, there are literally lives hanging in the balance. We have created a strong Interstate and National Highway System. It is now time to take the next step in completing this by improving the dangerous two-lane arterial roads that carry traffic to the National Highways and Interstate Highway Systems. 
In addition, I authored two amendments to address the very serious problem of accidents at railway crossings. I am pleased to report the Senate accepted both of these amendments. These provisions focus attention on reducing accidents by making highway rail-crossing improvement projects eligible for funds through the Intelligent Transportation Systems Program and the Innovative Bridge Research Program. 
In 1996 alone, there were 4,257 highway-rail crossing collisions that resulted in 488 deaths and over 1,600 injuries. These incidents are mostly preventable if adequate safety precautions are taken. As the volume of rail traffic continues to increase, dedicating funds to these dangerous crossings will help ensure the number of accidents is reduced. The Senate took a strong step towards reducing these collisions by accepting these amendments, and I strongly encourage the House to place a similar emphasis on highway-rail crossing safety when they consider ISTEA in the coming weeks. 
Mr. President, I also appreciate very much the strong vote given on this floor to extending the ethanol credit. But mostly I applaud the leadership of Republicans and Democrats who understand the importance of ISTEA to the American economy and the American environment and to those hard-working Americans who are pursuing the American dream. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of S. 1668, a bill to require the President to inform Executive Branch employees it is legal for them to bring information to Congress regarding wrongdoing, even if the information has been classified by an Executive Branch official. 
Some of my colleagues may be surprised that the Intelligence Committee, which reported this bill after long discussion and study, finds such legislation necessary. Members are aware that the principle of a government employee's right to directly inform Congress has been in statute for eighty six years, and was reinforced in this decade by the Whistleblower Protection Act. What may be less well known is that the Whistleblower Protection Act specifically exempts the principal agencies of the Intelligence Community from the requirements of that law. In addition, successive administrations have held that where classified information of wrongdoing is concerned, Executive Branch officials will decide what portion of the information will be shared with Congress, and how, when, and with whom in Congress it will be shared. The Administration believes the control of classified information lies solely with the President and his designees. They base this belief on the President's role as Commander in Chief. 
In current practice, an employee of the Executive Branch with classified information about wrongdoing has the option of informing his or her superior, or the inspector general of the department or agency. The employee also has the option of making a report to the Attorney General. In my view, this is insufficient. Members, especially those who have served on the Armed Services Committee or the Intelligence Committee, can visualize cases in which the classified information of wrongdoing is so sensitive that an employee will fear to take any of the avenues now available. He or she may fear for their career if they inform their boss or their Inspector General prior to informing Congress. In some rare circumstances they might even fear for their safety. Yet today such employees have no other legal recourse. 
The ability of government employees to bring information to Congress should be our first concern in this matter. But we should also be concerned about the rights of Congress and the ability of Congress to do the job the Constitution requires. Congress also has important national security responsibilities. 
Congress, not the President, raises armies and maintains navies. Congress, not the President, calls out the militia. Congress, not the President, declares war. Congress therefore has the right to national security information, and in fact Congressional committees in the national security and foreign policy fields have been successfully working with and storing this information for many years. In addition, Congress' annual responsibility to authorize and appropriate funds for national security and foreign policy purposes, and its continuing responsibility to oversee how those funds are spent, gives Congress a need to know which justifies its access to information. For these reasons, the Administration's arguments for their exclusive control over classified information ring hollow. I should add that according to CIA Director Tenet, Congress does a better job keeping the secrets entrusted to it than does the Executive Branch. So an argument that Congress should not be trusted with sensitive information is baseless. 
Mr. President, I recognize the Administration argument is based on a requirement, as they see it, to defend Presidential prerogatives. In fact, the Clinton Administration has been more open in informing Congress on intelligence matters, including instances of wrongdoing, than any of its predecessors. Some Administration of the future might classify a report to deny Congress the facts, but not this one. So my support for this legislation is not based on concern about a particular Administration. It is based on my concern for the ability of government employees to inform Congress, and on the ability of Congress to play its role in keeping America safe. Given the responsibilities of Congress and its record in keeping classified information secure, there is no reason why whistleblower protection statutes should not also apply to classified information. In voting for this bill, my colleagues are voting for their own right to do their job. 
Mr. President, I yield such time as is necessary to the Senator from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, for Americans government secrecy is a paradox. In a democracy, it's an unusual action for us to decide to keep something secret from the public, because it's their government. What we do is for the people. It's carried out in their name. So it's unusual to do the public's business in secret. 
There is only one legitimate reason for our government to keep something secret from its citizens: To keep America safe. As Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I have been exposed to many things that, if made public, would threaten the security of our citizens and our nation. But I have also seen valuable information unnecessarily kept from the public view. Which is why I support this effort to change the way our government classifies and declassifies its information. 
Secrecy is the exception, not the rule, in these matters for a number of reasons. The first and foremost is that this is government of, by and for the people. The second stems from that old adage `sunshine is the best disinfectant'. We do a better job in the open, where our ideas and actions are subject to the test of scrutiny, criticism and feedback, than we do in secret. And third, because information we gather belongs to the people, we should make sure information they can use--in their own lives, in their own businesses, and, most important, in making decisions as citizens in a democracy--is provided to them when we can make it available without compromising our safety. 
We make the unusual decision to keep things secret for a reason: Because those secrets help to keep Americans safe. Our government classifies information to help protect our citizens and preserve the security of our nation. When the Director of Central Intelligence goes to the President or to Congress to tell us of the threats our nation faces, he can do so because there are men and women around the globe risking their lives to provide our nation's leaders with the information they need to protect our country. Whether the intelligence deals with foreign leaders, terrorists, narcotics traffickers, or military troop movements, our government needs to keep certain information secret or our nation's security will suffer. 
Yet much of the information on foreign countries collected by our Intelligence Community can and should be shared with the American people. With the growth of open source information and widespread availability of information technology, the American public is also increasingly a consumer of intelligence. We live in a very complex world, with intertwining relationships between nations shaped by history and culture. It is difficult for policymakers--those of us who study foreign policy, who have access to classified information and analysis, and who receive detailed government briefings--to get the information we need for an informed view on foreign policy issues. Our citizens have an even more limited amount of information available to help them understand what occurs outside our nation's border. Which is why I believe the more information the American public has with which to understand foreign policy the better. 
Mr. President, we need to continue to protect `sources and methods', a term of art which refers to the people working to collect intelligence and the means by which they do so. Yet, when we acquire information whose release will not threaten sources and methods, or have information so dated that the people and means used to collect it are no longer in jeopardy, the government should release this information to the public. 
We must act this year to reverse a fifty year trend and reduce government secrecy, including intelligence secrecy. The classification system has been regulated by executive order for five decades, with new executive orders contradicting previous ones and producing new costs for all agencies involved. What is or is not a secret should not be subject to a change in political leadership. Congress should place in statute the concept of what is or is not classified information, and provide general standards for classifying and declassifying information. 
Mr. President, Congress bears some of the responsibility for the status of our nation's classification policy. The Commission on Protecting and Reducing Government Secrecy was not able to find a single example of a congressional hearing on the issue of executive branch secrecy policy. At the very least, Congress needs to improve its oversight of this issue. As part of this effort, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is scheduled to hold a hearing on this issue later this year. 
Senators Moynihan and Helms have shown great leadership in addressing the issue of governmental secrecy. Their work on the Secrecy Commission has helped provide the Senate with the necessary context and analysis of government secrecy we need to address this issue. Their legislation S. 712, the Government Secrecy Act of 1997, goes a long way towards outlining a balanced government policy which protects the most sensitive information while allowing the public access to as much information as possible. 
In my discussions with Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet, I have learned that the Intelligence Community does have concerns with the current version of S. 712. The CIA's concerns include their desire that the originator of classified information be in charge of its declassification, and that the classification and declassification process not be subject to judicial review. I look forward to working with Senators Helms and Moynihan, 
with Director Tenet, and the Administration to develop legislative language which meets the twin goals of keeping America safe and ensuring our government responds to the needs of its citizens for information. 
Because the Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency are responsible for the vast majority of information that requires classification, I believe the committees responsible for oversight of these entities--the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence--should have the opportunity to review S. 712. I hope that such a sequential referral can be arranged. 
Mr. President, we seek legislation that is in balance. We seek secrecy legislation which protects the safety of our citizens and the security of our nation, but also ensures that our government's policies, actions, and information will be as open as possible to its citizens. We must help keep America safe, while also assuring that our actions truly reflect those of a government of, by and for the people. I look forward to the challenge. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the world witnessed a diplomatic success in United Nation's Secretary General Kofi Annan's trip to Baghdad last weekend. We saw a successful conclusion to an episode that has been and probably will continue to be a very long drama of confrontation with Iraq. This success is not due solely to Mr. Annan's considerable powers of persuasion. Mr. Annan's mission was backed by force--by the real, credible potential for violent punishment from U.S. forces if a diplomatic solution was not achieved. He said this about his successful negotiations: `You can do a lot with diplomacy, but of course you can do a lot more with diplomacy backed up by firmness and force.' It takes nothing away from Mr. Annan's success to note he shares star billing as a peacemaker with the soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines of the United States. 
The smile of diplomacy combined with the force of the gun has produced an offer from Baghdad to allow U.N. weapons inspectors into sites previously denied to them by the Iraqi government. For the moment there is hope that air strikes to reduce Iraq's capacity to use weapons of mass destruction will not be needed. Gratefully, for now, we will not again be witnesses to the necessary violence of combat. The images of war, which increasingly shape and limit our national tolerance for war, will thankfully not supplant Seinfeld on our TV screens this week. 
And yet our gratitude for peace is not entirely satisfying. A sour taste remains in our mouths. We wonder again if Saddam Hussein has got the better of us. The question nags: Did we win a diplomatic battle but not the war? These feelings and this question flow from our national discussion of Iraq policy over the past several weeks, especially the growing realization that America should not deal with the Iraq problem episodically, but rather with finality, even if greater effort is required. 
This problem was eloquently stated last Wednesday at Ohio State University by a veteran. He said: 
I spent twenty years in the military; my oldest son spent twenty-five; my youngest son died in Vietnam; six months later, his first cousin died in Vietnam. We stood in the gap. If push comes to shove and Saddam will not back down, will not allow or keep his word, are we ready and willing to send the troops in? You see, I have no problem with asking any one of these guys in the Armed Forces to stand in the gap for me now, that we stood in the gap back then. . . . I think all of Congress wants to know. Are we willing to send troops in and finish the job, or are we going to do it [half-hearted] like we've done before? 
Mr. President, this veteran speaks for me. He gave the nation a clarion call to finish the job. It falls to us to determine what finishing the job means. We must do so with the understanding that wherever and however we stand in the gap, our stand and our actions will be globally public. All of us who are given power by the Constitution to declare war and raise armies must take note of how much is won or lost over the airwaves. 
We will not restrict the flow of images in the next war as we have in the past. The recently released CIA report on the Bay of Pigs thirty-six years after the report was written, represents the old way of making: war in secret. The new way is portable video cameras and satellite communications opening the battlefield to full view. And victory may hinge more on the impressions of the battle conveyed through the media than on the effect of the combatants themselves. Even if the struggle is only diplomatic, it is no less public and global, and the impression made on the public who witness the struggle through the media is at least as important as the diplomatic outcome. 
Television images are powerful and effect all who watch. Two and one-half billion people watched Princess Diana's funeral. Perhaps as many watched the war of words between the U.S. and Iraq. I am concerned that to date, we may be losing this battle of the airwaves. A ruthless dictator who has starved and brutalized and robbed his people for over twenty years actually appears in some media to be more interested in the welfare of his people than do we. To win, we must have an objective that is clear, will justify war's violence if war comes, and will enable us to rally world opinion. We need a mission that puts us in the gap not just to reduce a threat but to liberate a people and make a whole region secure and prosperous. We need a cause which will unite moral leaders like Nelson Mandela, and Vaclav Havel with other political and military leaders. We need an objective which will permanently remove the threat the Iraqi dictatorship poses to the United States, to our allies, to our interests, to its neighbors, and to its own people. 
The containment of Iraq--although it has been a success--cannot be such a cause. Containment reduced the Iraqi military threat and introduced UNSCOM inspections, which are our principal means of limiting Saddam's production of weapons of mass destruction. But the ultimate failure of containment is signaled by the word `reduce' as a policy goal. With biological weapons, reduction or limitation are not sufficient. We need to be sure such weapons are eliminated from Saddam's arsenal. To `reduce' is not enough. 
Let me say a word about the fear that has been aroused over the potential of biological weapons, both Iraqi weapons and possibly such weapons in the hands of terrorists in this country. Fear is a natural reaction, but fear is also the great debilitator. Fear keeps us from taking necessary action. We must manage our fears, we must keep fear from paralyzing us, and we must realistically measure the threat posed by these weapons. If we are to truly stand in the gap with regard to Iraq, we must do something hard: we must have a broader perspective than just altering our fear of biological weapons. We must transcend that fear and convert it into a hope for freedom. A democratic Iraq is certainly in our interest, an Iraq free of weapons of mass destruction is certainly in our interest, but it is above all for the sake of the Iraqis that we must replace Saddam. 
A review of what Saddam has done to his people underscores the need to remove him. After over 20 years of Saddam, it is hard to recall that Iraq was once the heart of the Fertile Crescent, a country blessed with oil resources, rich agricultural potential, and a vibrant middle class. Through a disastrous war with Iran and then the invasion of Kuwait, Saddam mortgaged and then caused the destruction of much of Iraq's oil capacity. Through static economic policies, he marginalized a middle class which has since been almost wiped out by the effect of sanctions, which is to say, by the effect of Saddam's behavior. Per capita income in Iraq has dropped from $2,900 in 1989 to $60 today, in currency terms. The dinar, which was worth three dollars in 1989, is now at the rate of 1,500 to one dollar. Iraqis have seen their salaries drop to five dollars a month, and their pensions evaporate. We are also familiar with the starvation and the permanent health crisis he imposes on his people while he builds palaces and other grandiose monuments to himself. 
Saddam's policies have killed hundreds of thousands of Iranians and Iraqis and thousands of Kuwaiti citizens, many of whom are still unaccounted for. His reign of terror continues to kill, including between 500 and 1,200 prisoners murdered in his prisons last December. His weapons of mass destruction, with which we are too familiar, were tested on living human beings, according to British press reports. In sum, if there is a dictator in the world who needs to be removed, it is Saddam Hussein. 
Force, either our own or that of dissident Iraqis, will be required to remove this regime. But in my view, Desert Storm is not the model. A much better example of the marriage of military force with diplomacy, a success story in the making, is the U.S. deployment to Bosnia. An initial agreement was reached at Dayton as a result of the use of U.S. military force. Then our troops led an allied force into the country and provided, and continue to provide, the overarching security and stability beneath which a traumatized people regain the confidence to govern themselves democratically and live civilly with each other. The lesson of Bosnia is that force persuaded diplomacy, which has in turn given the people of Bosnia a chance for a lasting peace. Iraq, with its devastated middle class and ethnic divisions, may need the same kind of long-term application of potential force, once Saddam's regime has passed. 
It took hope, at the worst moments of the Yugoslav war, when Sarajevo was a deadly obstacle course for its citizens, to dream of a peaceful Bosnia, and it took courage to make the commitments which are now slowly bringing that dream into reality. In the same way, we must get past our pessimism about Iraq and the Middle East, summon our hope, and dream the successful outcome of our policy: a democratic Iraq. Imagine its characteristics: a democratic Iraq would be at peace with its neighbors. It would have no weapons of mass destruction. A democratic Iraq would enjoy the benefits of its agricultural and oil wealth and would share them equitably across their society. A democratic Iraq would be a tolerant society, in sharp contrast to some of its neighbors. It would not oppress its minorities. Its Kurdish population, secure and free in northern Iraq, would not be a base for an insurgency against Turkey. A democratic Iraq would be a powerful example to the rising oil states of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan, a proof to them that a government can use oil revenue for something other than hiring police and buying weapons. 
There is a dissonant sound to the words `Iraq' and `democracy' side by side, but this dream, aided by a sound American strategy, can become real. I know of no genetic coding that predisposes the Iraqis, or any people, to dictatorship. In November, I laid out a road map which included the following steps and I repeat them today. 
First, we must convince our core European and Asian allies that democracy, not just the temporary compliance of a dictator, is the right long-term goal for Iraq. We must use the facts about Saddam's brutality to convince our allies to support a transition to democracy in Iraq, and to convince them the security and economic opportunity that would flow out of a new, democratic Iraq is worth more than the money owed our allies by Saddam's regime. In other words, we must convince our allies to forgive the debts of a post-Saddam Iraq. Beyond debt forgiveness, we should clearly state the loan and foreign assistance preferences which a democratic Iraq would receive from U.S. and multinational lending agencies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Third, we should openly and consistently state our goal of a free, democratic Iraq, even if we have to state it repeatedly for years. To accept less and say less is simply unworthy of our heritage. 
Mr. President, there are additional steps which are essential if we are to achieve our goal: 
We should announce our intention to see Saddam Hussein indicted and tried for war crimes and genocide. 
As some commentators have suggested, the United States should form an umbrella organization of pro-democracy Iraqi exile groups and support them with money and military supplies. 
When the exile group seizes significant Iraqi territory, the United States should recognize it as Iraq's government and make frozen Iraqi government funds available to it. 
The UN has already decided to expand the amount of oil Iraq can sell in exchange for food and medicine. We should work with the UN to facilitate greater amounts of life's necessities getting into the hands of the Iraq people. Over the long term, we should consider the usefulness of sanctions in overthrowing Saddam. The debilitating effect of sanctions on ordinary Iraqis may actually help keep Saddam in power. Our policies should serve the strategy of removing this dictator from office and creating the democratic Iraq and peaceful Middle East which is our goal. 
Mr. President, I am laying out what could be a long road for the United States. But when you compare today's situation with tomorrow's possibilities, it is a road worth taking. It is a road worthy of our heritage as liberators and as a free people. Mr. Annan carefully selected these familiar words to describe the U.N.'s success this week: `We the peoples of the world can do anything if united.' We have dreamed the possibility. Now it is time for us to make it real. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the McCain-Feingold bill, which will provide this country with much needed campaign finance reform. 
The Constitution lays out the requirements for someone wanting to run for office. In order to run for Senate, the Constitution tells us that there are 3 requirements: First, you need to be a U.S. Citizen for 9 years. Second, you need to be at least 30 years old. Third, you need to live in the state whose office you're running for. 
Three simple requirements, right? Wrong. 
What the Constitution doesn't tell you is that there is a fourth requirement. You must have an awful lot of money, or at least know how to raise a lot of money. 
The Constitution doesn't tell you this because when the framers sat down to draft the Constitution, they could not possibly have imagined the ridiculously large amounts of time and money one must spend today if a person wants to be elected to office. 
For example, if you want to run for Senate in my home state of Nebraska, population 1.6 million, it will cost you several million dollars. This means that candidates must raise over $10,000 every week for 6 years to cover the cost of the average Senate campaign. 
We need to stop using partisan procedural stalling tactics and get serious about fixing our campaign financing laws. We need to change the law to give power back to working families, restore their faith in the process, and make democracy work again. That's why I rise in support of the bipartisan bill offered by Senators McCain and Feingold. 
This bill would be a strong first step toward making democracy work. It seeks to solve the problem of soft money (money raised in an election, but is outside of federal campaign finance rules), not just with the political parties, but with the special interest groups who run attack ads, who are completely unregulated by the system, and whose contributors are undisclosed. It would require better disclosure, and give more power to the F.E.C. It would create incentives to keep wealthy individuals from trying to buy a Senate seat. 
This is not a perfect bill, especially in the stripped-down form in which it has ultimately reached the floor. I feel that it could be improved in ways which would make it easier for average Americans to run, win and serve, and which would make incumbent senators a lot less comfortable. I feel especially strong about the need to toughen our system of election law enforcement, so that the politicians who break the law end up paying the price. 
But my colleagues and I can't make an effort to improve this bill if the other party continues with their stalling tactics and prevent us from debating it. 
Mr. President, Americans are frustrated. It is time to get serious about this debate. I know it, you know it, and the American people want it. 
As I've said before, in a Harris Poll last March, 83 percent of Americans said they thought that special interest groups had more power than the voters. Seventy-six percent said that Congress is largely owned by special interest groups. 
Our lack of action on this issue reinforces the view that Americans have of their Government. 
The American people are frustrated by our delay. They are frustrated with the political process that appears to respond to those with economic power and which, all too often, ignores the needs of working men and women. 
They are frustrated with the rising cost of campaigns, with a political system which closes the door to people of average means who also want to serve their country in the U.S. Congress. 
They are frustrated with the millions of dollars they see go into our campaigns. They are frustrated with our tendency to talk instead of act. 
Mr. President, it is time for us to show the American people, not with words but with action. With a single vote today, Senators can act to allow this issue to move front and center on the political stage. With this bipartisan bill, we can show the American people that we mean what se say when we talk. 
Last week in the Omaha World Herald, there was an op-ed piece written by Deanna Frisk, the President of Nebraska's League of Women Voters. In laying out her reasons why all Americans would benefit from fixing our campaign finance laws, Ms. Frisk said:  
Campaign finance reform is about creating the kind of democracy we want to have: a democracy where citizens come first, a democracy that is open to new faces, a democracy that can respond with fresh ideas to the problems confronting our country. 
Mr. President, I couldn't agree more. As members of the Senate, we are in a unique position to make our government work better for the American people. 
Let's give every 30 year old, U.S. Citizen who wants to serve his state as a Member of the Senate a fighting chance. Let's get rid of that unofficial requirement that says don't bother running for office if you don't have lots of time and money to invest. Let's make the wealthy candidate who can afford to dump loads of his own money into a campaign the exception, not the norm like it is today. 
Let's give the American people what they want. Let's end this partisan bickering and pass the McCain-Feingold bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am proud today to join with several of my colleagues in support of S. 1638, `The Healthy Kids Act', the tobacco bill crafted by Senator Conrad and the Democratic Tobacco Task Force. 
As you have heard many of our colleagues say, 3000 kids start smoking every day. One third of those will prematurely die from a tobacco-related disease. In Nebraska alone, 38 out of 100 high school kids currently smoke cigarettes and over 35,000 kids currently under the age of 18 will die prematurely from tobacco-related diseases. 
This is simply unacceptable. And the job has fallen upon Congress to do something about it. Last summer, my colleagues and I were faced with the daunting task of putting together comprehensive tobacco legislation. Led by my very dedicated colleague Senator Conrad from North Dakota, the Democratic Tobacco Task Force worked hard for nearly eight months to draft a bill that put our children's health first. This is exactly what The HEALTHY Kids Act does. 
This bill puts the law on the side of our kids. Sometimes we pass laws and are unsure of their impact. This time we can be certain: If we pass this law it will save children's lives. Period. 
Experts say that the way to get kids to quit smoking is to raise prices on cigarettes. The HEALTHY Kids Act does this. 
This bill is projected to collect $78 billion in total revenue over the next five years. Among other things, this money will help improve our children's health care, child care, and education; fund important medical research; take care of the farmers that were left out of the settlement negotiations; and some money will even go towards reducing the deficit and saving social security--which could perhaps be the greatest gift we could ever think about giving our children. 
Mr. President, I close by saying that I look forward to working with Mr. Conrad and others on passing this important legislation that correctly puts our children first.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19980212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I cosponsor this important piece of legislation to help the very neediest of individuals obtain a college degree. 
One of the most important goals that we can accomplish as legislators is to ensure that every American who is willing to work hard can go to college and have a shot at the American Dream. Yet we know that the cost of a college education is rising rapidly, and that can be an inhibitor for potential students. 
By reauthorizing and reforming State Student Incentive Grants, the LEAP Act ensures that this important program continues to assist those students who otherwise may not be able to pursue higher education. Together with Pell grants they make it possible for low-income students to reach their potential and in turn become productive contributors in our increasingly knowledge-based economy. 
This legislation restores to the SSIG program its incentive nature by giving states a reason to increase their investment in it. Any funds appropriated over $35 million would require an increased state match of two new dollars for every federal dollar. In return greater flexibility will be provided for the use of these extra funds. They can be used to increase grant awards or for other worthy activities such as carrying out academic or merit scholarship programs or career education programs. 
Nebraska has been supportive of the SSIG program and has shown that support in its willingness to overmatch the federal contribution. However, with the decrease in appropriations from $50 million for fiscal year 1997 to $25 million for fiscal year 1998, the state will be able to assist approximately 500 fewer students. Seventy-one percent of Nebraska students who received an SSIG had a family income of $20,000 or less. 
By lending further support to the SSIG program we can ensure that these 500 students and thousands of students across the nation do not fall between the cracks. 
Mr. President, I am cosponsoring this bill today because it represents a good bipartisan effort to increase educational opportunities for those in greatest need of financial assistance. I look forward to moving it through Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I may speak as if in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, there has been a lot of commentary before about the President's budget, and I would like to offer a little comment prior to talking about the proposals that I heard the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, Senator Byrd, make the other day having to do with the importance of ISTEA legislation. 
My own view is that there is an awful lot that Congress needs to be proud of at the moment. We sometimes make it worse with our actions. And when we help make things better, it seems to be important for us to take stock of what we have done and to acknowledge our accomplishments. 
I believe the last 7 years in the United States we have seen a dramatic transformation in the United States Congress from one of an expectation almost that the Japanese and other Asian nationals are going to overwhelm us. 
I remember very well in 1991 the debate was: Will the U.S. currency be devalued in the end? Could our automobile manufacturers survive? Could our computer manufacturers survive? There were a lot of people who reached the conclusion that we would not be able to do that, and what we ought to do is adopt the Japanese model, to have the Government much more involved in the decisionmaking businesses, with a much closer relationship, and industrial policy was quite popular at the time. 
We chose a different direction. We enacted in 1990, and in 1993 and again enacted in 1997, legislation that imposed fiscal discipline on the Federal Government. And as a consequence of that we are now finding ourselves debating what are we going to do about the surplus? We have reduced Government borrowing, and reduced Government borrowing just from the 1993 legislation by almost $800 billion; and that coupled with tremendous accomplishments in the private sector, businesses and employees working harder, producing more, being more competitive and especially paying attention to price and quality which is what the consumer increasingly is looking at before they will make a purchase. 
Our goods are selling. Our cars and computers are selling. Our software and food is selling. Our products are selling. People throughout the world, where they have an opportunity to buy our products are saying that `Made in the U.S.A' is good again. It wasn't that long ago when people were saying maybe it is not so good. 
So we need to congratulate ourselves. We have a surplus. The 
cost of the Federal Government is down to the lowest as a percentage of GDP than it has been in a long time. Crime is down in most major cities. There is a lot that we need to feel good about--not just as Members of Congress but as Americans for how it is that we have gotten to where we are today. 
Mr. President, I think, as is always the case in any competitive operation, that it must be pointed out that there is a need to take advantage--not to say it is terrific and we are on the top of the heap and become complacent. That is when you get in trouble. I understand that there is uncertainty when you are having to compete. But in part that uncertainty means we are doing a good job because we are not asking anybody to provide us with an absolute guarantee of success. We are saying that we are prepared to get in the market and do what we have to do to be successful. 
So I believe it is not the time in 1998 to say that it is terrific, and let's figure out how to spend the surplus, or let's figure out how to take an easy course of action. I think the President has outlined for us a tough course in setting Social Security as a top priority saying we have to have a discussion in 1998 about it besides in 1999 what we are going to do with the most expensive program that we have in Washington, DC, today. I applaud that. 
All of us need, as we look at the Congressional Budget Office numbers, to be alert. And the distinguished Senator from Tennessee and I are both on the Medicare commission, and I presume that Medicare commission, which I think is going to have our first meeting sometime in March relatively quickly, I hope. Our big concern should be the year 2010, the year 2030, and the CBO numbers that we are given. All of us need to understand that it only extends out 10 years. The next 10 years looks pretty good. Over the next 10 years not a single baby boomer will retire. They start to retire; 77 million of them start to retire in the year 2010. And from 2010 to 2030, the number of retirees will increase almost 25 million while the number of workers only goes up 5 million. That is a demographic problem--not caused by liberalism or conservatism. It is a demographic problem, and my guess is that this year it will impose some sort of children's health fee on tobacco. My guess is that the increased funding in NIH will go through. And my guess is that as a consequence of that and what other sorts of things there will be that the baby-boom generation is going to live even longer than what we are currently forecasting. 
And their demand for collective transfer payments both from Social Security and Medicare are apt to be larger than what we are currently estimating, not likely to be smaller. 
During that period of time--2010-2030--the percent of our budget that is allocated to mandatory spending, presuming that we allow net interest to go down, which is by no means certain, if we allow the debt to be paid down so the net interest can go down, even with that scenario, at the end of the baby boom generation 80 percent of the budget will go to mandatory spending. All one has to do is take today's budget of $1.7 trillion, subtract 80 percent, and ask yourself how you are going to defend the Nation with 20 percent, how you are going to build our roads, how you are going to maintain a law enforcement system, how you are going to do all the things that everyone wants to do with only 20 percent left. 
That is the dilemma, it seems to me, we are going to face. So I hope in this moment of exuberation and exhilaration we understand now is not the time to become complacent. Now is not the time for us to just come to the floor and try to tee up things that are relatively easy. We have to get the tough things done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I was very disappointed, many of my colleagues down here, a lot of us were disappointed that we were not able to get the ISTEA legislation passed last year. For me the ISTEA legislation is one of the most important things with which this Congress deals. It creates immediate jobs, employs people in my State, but much more importantly, it adds to the productive capacity out in the future. It contributes to our capacity to be competitive. It enables our families to do what they want to do when they take their leisure time. 
Our transportation system is enormously important, and it is one of the things we in America have to be proud of. It enables us to maintain our competitive edge and to be able to celebrate. 
I was encouraged earlier last year when the majority leader indicated that he was going to make this a priority and bring it up right away. I have great respect for Senator Domenici, the chairman of the Budget Committee, who is asking that this legislation be taken up after we get a budget resolution, but that means we will have to get another 6-month extension. That means there will be contract uncertainty out there in the country. That means we may not get this thing done until next year. 
All of us know there are bitter divisions about formulas, bitter divisions about how we are going to allocate our money: should it go out to the West, to the Northeast? All of these battles that typically do not break down by party line but by geographic line, all of those battles will have to be waged here in the Senate Chamber when the bill is brought up. If you delay it, not only do we risk not getting a 6-month extension, we risk not getting ISTEA passed until very late in the session, creating contract uncertainty, creating, it seems to me, problems none of us ought to be courting. 
So I hope that the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee and the majority leader will bring this legislation up before this budget resolution, will schedule it for debate as quickly as possible. 
We need, on behalf of the American workers, on behalf of American businesses, to pass what arguably I think both Republicans and Democrats would say is apt to have the most immediate, positive impact in terms of our economy and in terms of jobs and productivity. 
I have a letter from one of Nebraska's significant engineering companies pointing out, quite correctly, that there is an urgency to this legislation. There are jobs hanging in the balance, there is productivity hanging in the balance, there is safety hanging in the balance. There are lot of things that need to be done that we are not going to be able to do if this piece of legislation is delayed. 
I voted yesterday to rename the National Airport in favor of Ronald Reagan. I am a Democrat. There were many of us who said, oh, my gosh, do we have to put a Republican name up on our airport? Ronald Reagan was one of the most important Presidents of this century. It was an important piece of legislation. But relative to ISTEA, it is not as important. When you size and scale these things in terms of the contribution they are going to make to keep our people safe, to give our kids a good education, to give Americans a shot at the American dream, ISTEA gives them that opportunity. ISTEA gives us jobs; it gives us a chance to maintain our competitive edge. 
I hope there is some reconsideration given. I hope that the advice that was offered earlier by the distinguished senior Senator from West Virginia, Mr. Byrd, that this legislation be brought up sooner rather than later will be taken by the majority leader. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am honored to be an original cosponsor of Senator Dodd's important initiative to improve the affordability, availability and quality of child care in the United States. I believe that American families will welcome this legislation. 
We all know that high quality, affordable child care is an important concern to working families. The number of working mothers with preschool-age children has increased five-fold since 1947. More than ten million children of working mothers are in child care--and this number will increase as our strong economy enables welfare parents to find jobs. Child care belongs on the top of the national agenda. 
This legislation uses a number of strategies to improve child care for American families. Most families struggle to cope with the costs of child care. Under this legislation, low-income working families will benefit from increased subsidies for child care services through the Child Care and Development Block Grant. Families who have little or no tax liability will receive new assistance through refundability of the Dependent Care Tax Credit, while an adjusted sliding scale and indexed expense limits will enhance the tax credit for families with incomes below $60,000. 
This legislation also provides funds for significant quality improvements. Through block grant funds, States will be encouraged to invest in meaningful strategies that improve quality of care and enhance early childhood development, such as lower provider-to-child ratios, new training and education opportunities for child care providers, higher wages for child care workers, and greater enforcement of state licensing standards. In addition, new funding for school-age child care will encourage schools to create before- and after-school programs. 
Finally, Senator Dodd has structured this legislation to encourage a significant private sector role in child care improvements. By expanding the Family and Medical Leave Act, establishing competitive `challenge grants' for community-based child care improvements, and developing a new tax credit for employers that provide child care opportunities to their employees, this legislation recognizes the important role that community organizations and private businesses have to play in meeting American families' child care needs. 
I am pleased to support such an important investment in American families and America's children. We know how important a child's early years are to its later intellectual, emotional and physical development. All American families have great dreams for their children and seek the best care possible during these critical early years. And all families deserve a chance at the American dream. Through this legislation, Congress will be doing its part to help American families work towards a successful future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first, let me thank both the majority leader and the Democratic leader for resolving this. I thank, as well, Chairman Roth of the Finance Committee, Senator Grassley, and others who have worked on this. Getting it done by the end of March means that, prior to the 15th of April, taxpayers will have substantially more power. I know that Senator Roth is looking at some additional things that he might add to the bill. 
Let me identify a few that are in this bill that, if we can get it passed before April 15, taxpayers will have. Under current law, the IRS can come out and try to collect money from a taxpayer that they think owes money and, if they make a mistake, tough luck, there is no sanction against them. Under this changed law, if the IRS goes out and does this and it is discovered that they are negligent, they can be responsible for $100,000 in punitive damages to be paid to the taxpayer. And if it is discovered that they were 
wrong, they have to pay the legal fees and other expenditures that the taxpayer would have been out. It puts the burden on the IRS to make certain that they don't send out a collection notice unless they are certain there is a collection there. Today, they have no negative sanctions at all. This will shift a substantial amount of power to the taxpayers, which I think is needed. 
Chairman Roth has used what is called section 6103 to look at some of the privacy problems, and he has some additional ideas he may want to add in this area. Just with what the House has passed and what we have in our bill right now, there is a substantial amount of new power that the taxpayer will have. We will make the taxpayer advocate more independent. Senator John Breaux and others--and I believe Chairman Roth supports it--will make the taxpayer advocate even more independent by removing them from the IRS. They do a relatively good job, but there is a conflict of interest and they have a difficult time being able to be a powerful advocate for the taxpayers. 
There are lots of other things that this piece of legislation does, and to be able to get it done by the 15th of April, I think taxpayers are going to like it a lot. Here are some more examples. We all know the code is complicated, and we all know that one of the cheapest ways to get an audience to their feet and to appreciate this is to propose some tax break, a deal that we favor. And everybody around here has one that they like. If we have a reconciliation bill or a tax bill we are going to move through this bill, this law would say that the IRS Commissioner has to be at the table when that is being discussed, and then to say this is what it is going to add to the taxpayer burden. 
It has been estimated now that it costs somewhere between $100 billion and $200 billion a year to comply with the code. This would put the Commissioner at the table and give the commissioner a sufficient amount of independence to say this is what it will cost, or that it requires an index and some measure of cost to the taxpayer. 
We heard Mr. Rossotti talk about his need for power. It's surprising how little management authority the Commissioner has, though you will not likely see that having an impact immediately. Long-term, there is no question that is going to have an impact. My guess is that most Members have heard complaints coming from citizens that they know have to go to a regional office to get an answer to a question or get a problem solved. That is because what IRS has done is increasingly centralized the decisionmaking process. And what Mr. Rossotti, correctly, is trying to do is decentralize that process, so you have human beings in offices at the local level helping to make decisions. The way he is proposing to do that is to end the stovepipe stricture that exists and create functional structures. He needs the law to be changed in order to have the management authority to get that done. 
So I thank the majority leader very much and the Democratic leader, Senator Daschle, for their determination to get this done. I thank Senator Grassley and Senator Roth. And before I leave the floor, I also want to thank Secretary Rubin. There was an awful lot of attention paid to a conflict that Congressman Portman, who was cochair of this effort, and I had having to do with an independent board for the IRS. We worked out those disagreements. Lost, unfortunately, in the process of debating that is another change we put in place, which was to require some consolidated oversight on Congress' side and the purpose of both is so that we can get to a point where you have a shared agreement, you have consensus between the executive and legislative branch about what you want the IRS to do. It is impossible to make technology decisions. 
The administration is asking for another $400 million for tax system modernization. Without this piece of legislation in place and Mr. Rossotti with the power and consolidated congressional oversight, I would vote no on that. 
This process began with Senator Shelby and I on the floor adding money for the creation of this commission. Congressman 
Lightfoot and Congressman Hoyer, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on the Treasury, were involved in the House. It began because Senator Shelby and I saw that the General Accounting Office had said that nearly $3 billion of money had been wasted trying to modernize the information systems at the Internal Revenue Service. Unless you can get an environment where the legislative and executive branch say we agree on the plan, we support the plan, we support what we are trying to do--everybody from the private sector and the public sector said, take another $100 million, or $400 million, or whatever you can, to put into technology and it is going to be more money down the rat hole. 
To get this done by the 15th of April gives us an opportunity to increase confidence that when we give the IRS the technology money they need to modernize their system, it is likely to be that they will do the right thing. I also predict, Mr. President, that there is a title in here that hasn't been given a lot of attention because it is not very controversial. I think that 10 years from now it may be seen as one of the most significant parts of this legislation, and that is powerful incentives to move to the electronic world, electronic filing, and the removal of the some of the disincentives in place right now to electronic filing. I don't want to talk about the information superhighway, but the air rates for electronic filing is less than 1 percent; for the paper world it is 22 percent. The cost to the taxpayer to run the IRS, as well as the cost of the taxpayer to comply is substantially higher in a paper world than an electronic one. 
Since the IRS deals with 100 million households on an annual basis, I also would forecast that if we can get the IRS into the electronic world so taxpayers will know with certainty what their bill is--for most families, it is one of the largest bills they have to pay. In Nebraska, for just the Federal obligation in taxes, the average individual contribution to Washington on an annual basis is $4,600 a year. So for most families, their tax obligation is one of the largest obligations or bills that they have to pay, and uncertainty about that can make it difficult for them to do financial planning. 
I forecast that the electronic filing section of this bill is going to be something that is going to benefit taxpayers in lots of ways, and I also believe that it is going to be the sort of thing we will have to do in lots of other areas of Government if we are going to get the unit cost of Government down and the efficiency of the operation of the people's Government up. 
So I appreciate very much knowing now with certainty that this bill will be brought to the floor prior to the 30th of March and, more importantly, prior to the 15th of April, because I think the American taxpayers have waited for this all too long.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19980129</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today in recognition of Tom Osborne, the recently retired head coach of the Division I-A collegiate football co-national champions--my alma mater--the University of Nebraska, Lincoln. 
In 1973, Tom Osborne replaced a Nebraska legend, Coach Bob Devaney. As those of us who walk the halls of Congress can attest, succeeding a legend is no easy task. 
But Coach Osborne immediately proved himself worthy of the job in his rookie year with a sweet victory over UCLA. UCLA had ended the Huskers 32-game winning streak in the beginning of the 1972 season, and the significance of this victory was not lost on the coach or the fans. It was a fine start to a remarkable 25-year career that until this January had included two national championships. 
In this, his final season, Coach Osborne led UNL to a perfect record. His well drilled, well disciplined, well-conditioned team played every minute, of every quarter, of every game with pride and determination. The 13-0 Huskers played with the guts, grit and determination of a champion. They were rightfully honored as co-champions, along with an impressive University of Michigan squad, after thoroughly whipping the third ranked University of Tennessee and their talented quarterback Peyton Manning in the Orange Bowl, on January 2nd. A fitting location to end his prestigious career and win a piece of a third national championship. 
After the game, when asked about the co-championship possibility, Coach Osborne used the class and understatement he is famous for in his answer: `We had 13 games on our schedule and we won 13 games.' Can't argue with that! 
Ironic that he would end his career on the same Orange Bowl field that saw the germination of his coaching legend. It was on that same field in 1984 that Tom Osborne defied convention and risked the national championship by forgoing a virtually guaranteed game tying extra point and a lock on the national championship, by electing to attempt a more risky two-point conversion for an outright win and an outright national title. I will spare the details of the failed attempt, and say only this: Tom Osborne gained more respect in defeat, than many will ever achieve with victory. 
I am sure I speak for Nebraska fans as well as Michigan fans--and indeed all college football fans across the nation--when I say I would have loved to see the two teams play one more college football game this season. As a banner unfurled by a Nebraska fan at the Orange Bowl stated `Anytime. Anywhere.' 
Through his dedication to the University, his staff and his players, Coach Osborne has brought pride and joy to our state, our university and to all Nebraskans. His unique qualities as a coach and person are his unwavering faith and his dedication to the young men who play for him. It is fitting he will be remembered for the man he is, as much as for his abilities as a coach. 
Keith Jackson, ABC-TV's legendary football announcer recently told the Omaha World-Herald, `He's a better man than he is a coach. His coaching speaks for itself. You can look up his numbers in the record books. Less obvious is the way he lives. He's a humanist. Tom Osborne always felt he could help people.' 
Thank you, Tom Osborne, for all you have given the people of Nebraska. I salute you and applaud the 1997 University of Nebraska Football Huskers on a job well done.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed immediately to H.R. 2676, the IRS Restructuring Act of 1997 by discharging this legislation from the Senate Finance Committee to which it was referred on Thursday; that the bill be read a third time and passed and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, let me return the compliment. I have high praise for the chairman. He has done exceptional work on this issue, especially the 3 days of hearings which penetrated the section 6103 veil and issues that are protected under normal circumstances by privacy laws. 
Let me also respectfully disagree with his characterization of this as a watered-down bill, citing the Washington Post, the New York Times, et cetera. They are apt to object to many of the things that the distinguished Senator from Delaware wants to do as well. 
This piece of legislation has the full endorsement of America's accountants, America's enrolled agents, the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Treasury Employees Union. It is by no means small reform. I intend this afternoon to go through the bill. It was sitting at the desk a couple of days ago. We could have taken this thing up a couple of weeks ago and had a full debate on it. We would have had plenty of opportunity to amend it, to improve it and to change it, but we didn't. I am going to go through this bill and let my colleagues decide on behalf of their taxpayers whether or not they want to change the law. 
It looks like we only have a day or two left, but all we have to do is bring it up here to the floor. All we have to do is have no objection raised, and we can pass this piece of legislation. I am going to show some of the new things this law would provide to the American taxpayers as they consider whether or not this piece of legislation is watered-down. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I will be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Senator from Nevada, especially for his earlier work on the taxpayer bill of rights and taxpayer bill of rights II. Prior to the enactment of those laws, the taxpayer had almost no authority at all coming up against the IRS. With the enactment of those two bills, the taxpayer now has a substantial amount of power which was previously denied, and those who predicted there would be a big decline in collections --which, as you know, was the case--those predictions did not turn out to be true. 
This really gets right to the heart of it. This is not just an agency collecting money in order for us to be able to pay the bills, whatever it is we declare in law we are going to use taxpayer money to pay for. This really gets to the heart of Government of the people, by the people, and for the people. If people don't trust that they are getting a fair shake with the tax laws, with those 8 out of 10 who voluntarily comply--actually 83 percent of the American taxpayers comply, down from 93 percent 10 years ago. To those 83 out of 100 who voluntarily comply, they need to know, are they going to get the information they need to pay their taxes; are they going to get a fair shake if there is a dispute; are they going to face an agency that has the capacity to be managed in a way that is comparable to what the private-sector financial institutions demonstrate on their behalf? 
The answer right now is no in all three cases. More people pay taxes than vote in this country and their dissatisfaction with this agency is broad, it is deep and it is urgent, not just for the sake of being able to say we have done all we can to get this agency running correctly, but it is essential for the sake of people's confidence in their Government that we enact these changes. 
I heard, again, the distinguished chairman of the committee, whose willingness to hold hearings on this subject has been terribly important to examine beyond the privacy veil some of the additional problems that go on with the IRS, say this is a watered-down piece of legislation. That is not true, Mr. President. It may be true in the eyes of people who are opposed to the bill. Indeed, of the four opponents of the legislation in the House--426 voted in favor of it, 4 voted against--the people who voted against it thought it went too far. 
He cited yesterday, and again today, editorials that were objecting not to the bill because it didn't do enough, but because it went too far. These are people who don't want change at all. That don't want any change in the way the IRS is run. They think it is run just fine. 
So for those of us who have heard our citizens say that they call the IRS up and they can't get an answer to what becomes one of the most important questions they have when they are doing financial planning--which is, how much do I owe the Government? --for those citizens who find themselves in receipt of a notice of collection because they have been told that they haven't paid enough and find themselves wondering whether or not they are going to be able to withstand the IRS's assault on them, and for those who watch this agency continue to try to come into the electronic world and fail time after time after time, for all those and many more besides, this piece of legislation solves their problems. 
It solves their problems, Mr. President. 
I suspect that it is not likely that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are going to come down here and say, `For gosh sakes, let's get this thing passed.' I mean, on the House side it has the support of the Speaker, of Dick Armey, of Bill Archer. In fact, the percentage of Republicans supporting it in the House is 100 percent. The only people who opposed it are those who believe this legislation has gone too far, not that I did not go far enough. 
There are five titles, Mr. President, in this piece of legislation. It is again worth noting, for those who say, `Well, can't we just hire a private-sector person, as we just did with Mr. Rossotti to run the IRS? Isn't that enough? Don't we just need to manage it a little better?' you know, this is a nation of laws. The IRS doesn't exist because somebody decided to put it out there. It was created by the U.S. Congress. It operates as a consequence of what the law says, not just the Tax Code but the other laws that enabled that agency to be created in the first place. So it is a creature of law. It is the law that determines whether or not we are going to be able to get satisfaction for our citizens. 
So for those who are wondering why we are talking about the law here, we are talking about the law because the IRS was created by the law, and many things that people have come and asked for, the IRS can't do because the law does not allow it. So we have to change the law in order to be able to do the things that people have been coming to us saying needs to be done. 
Mr. President, title I is called the `Executive Branch Governance And Senior Management of the Internal Revenue Service.' It sounds innocuous enough. Indeed, most of the debate about this piece of legislation, regrettably, has been focused on the first half of title I, and that is the executive branch governance. 
There was resistance early to having a public board governing the IRS and have control and authority over the IRS. We finally persuaded the President that this was a good idea. This public board does have real authority to develop a strategic plan to make budget recommendations and make comment on the acceptability of the IRS Commissioner--tremendous authority under the law. 
There are some people who would like to go further. As I said, most of the people that have looked at this, if they have any objection at all, they object to it going too far. They object and say that the President should not have agreed to it, that he should not have said yes to us in this regard. 
We felt that having a public board--in this case a 9-person public board--with authority over the developing and strategic plan was crucial in order to be able to develop some consensus between the Congress and the executive branch about what the IRS was going to do. 
What is the plan? If you don't have a plan, then it is going to be very, very difficult to have any kind of an implementation strategy. 
The distinguished chairman says they want to be able to go and look at audit information. I do not believe this board ought to be looking at returns, nor do I think it ought to be getting into the details of audits. Should it be able to look at the standards of audits? Absolutely. 
Indeed, in one of the other titles of this legislation we require the IRS to publish the standards of audits. If people say, `Gosh, don't they already?' I say, no. I say to citizens who are concerned about this, we had only one full study on the basis of audits, the way audits are conducted by the IRS, only one study by a woman at the University of Syracuse who got the information through a Freedom of Information Act request. 
And every time she publishes her report, which is highly critical of the IRS--saying that the audit is done on one basis in Arizona and a different basis in Nebraska, that their subjective determinations are rampant throughout, that there does not appear to be consistency from one State to another, that it depends on where you live as to whether or not you are going to be audited, all kinds of criticism of this audit-- every time she surfaces those criticisms, the IRS attacks her. `Oh, no. You're wrong. You're just some flake up there at Syracuse. Don't trust the information.' We have all heard that before. 
When you have an agency like the IRS, they are able to say they have the power. Since they have the information, they can just say the citizen is wrong. 
This law requires the IRS to publish the standards of their audits. Let us decide. Let the citizens decide. Let the people examine this information to determine whether or not there is an objective basis for the audit and whether or not the public supports it. Don't let the IRS sort of do it on their own because it leaves open the possibility that you get what we have right now, which is a very substantial lack of confidence from one State to the next as to whether or not the citizen, the taxpayer is getting a fair shake. Again, back to what I said before, this is the way the IRS strikes at the heart of citizen 
confidence in Government of, by, and for the people. 
We are not talking about reform in the EPA here or the USDA that touches a much smaller number of people or even the Federal Election Commission that touches only individuals who chose to run for office. This agency touches almost every single household. Every single American has some contact with the IRS on an annual basis. 
The second half of this title which is crucial--and this is one that if I ever come down here and offer my unanimous consent request, and the bill gets discharged, and we vote on it, my guess is it is going to go 100 to nothing, or close to it. And one of the reasons I believe that is the section in title I that deals with management of the Internal Revenue Service senior management. 
People are surprised when they hear that the Commissioner has no authority to hire, to fire, to bring on their own team. Now, we make certain that veteran preferences are maintained, that the Commissioner has to follow the employment regulations of the Federal Government, especially the civil rights regulations. But significantly, though, this strengthens the Commissioner's ability to be able to manage, to be able not only to use punitive penalties for those who are not doing a good job but put positive incentives in place. 
Mr. Rossotti is from the private sector who came and talked to the Senate Finance Committee, when we held his confirmation hearings, and told us all the wonderful things he was going to do to manage the agency. The law does not give him the authority to do it, does not enable him to do the things he wants to do. We said, you can hire 25 more people. We gave him the authority to hire 25 more people, the only thing is they won't have any authority. 
Those of us who have had the opportunity to serve our country in the Armed Services understands one of the first things we were taught is the difference between responsibility and authority; that I can delegate authority, but responsibility always stays with me. One of the worst situations you can have in life is to be given a lot of responsibility but no authority. 
And that is what he has. He has the responsibility--everybody comes to him and complains when the agency isn't being run right--but he does not have the authority under the law to manage the agency, either with penalties or with affirmative incentives in place to reward people for doing a good job, to reward people for their high-performance in meeting the objectives and performance standards that he has set out in this law to present to the board and to present to the Congress. 
Title II deals with electronic filing. I can see why some people who have been commenting on this bill, as if they have read it, ignore this particular section. It is kind of boring--electronic filing. Electronic filing does not sound like it is a very exciting piece of information. 
I tell you, for the American people who pay for this agency, $7.3 billion a year to run it, and for those who are filing tax returns out there, who spend $200 billion a year to complete the forms, electronic filing is a big deal. 
Why? It is a big deal, Mr. President, because we discovered --our restructuring commission that held 12 public hearings and thousands of meetings with employees and with former employees, as well as with all the people that help private-sector people, citizens to fill out their tax returns--we discovered that the error rate in the paper world is 25 percent and the error rate in electronic filing is less than 1 percent. And we change that in this law. 
We still have a provision in there that requires under law that you have to actually put a signature document with your electronic filing, even though when we went down and visited the service centers and we talked to service center employees about this signature document--this piece of paper that has to still be filed, it is a requirement of the Department of Justice. The truth is, if you sign in black, the copiers are not so good anymore and it will not stand up in a court of law as to whether it is the real signature or a copy. So these stacks of papers they have down there are not worth anything. It is still required under law, but it is a nuisance to the taxpayer. Even with that paper having to be filed, the error rate is less than 1 percent. 
Mr. President, when it comes to doing any piece of work, whether it is preparing your own or trying to make the tax collection agency run efficiently, an error is money. It costs the taxpayers twice. It costs them first in an agency that is more inefficient than it ought to be, and it costs them a second time because it adds to the $200 billion. Some fraction of that $200 billion is there because it is inefficient, because it is difficult to get the information, because it takes longer than it otherwise would have. 
For those who sort of are trying to, in their own minds, scratch their head and figure out what I am talking about--which is not altogether easy sometimes--most of us in our billfolds, our purses will have a thing called an ATM card, a little piece of plastic that the private sector has developed. They developed it to make it easier to make financial 
transactions, to do business with your bank or financial institution. Lord knows, it is a lot easier. It is lots more convenient. It enables you to do things that otherwise you would have to actually physically go in while the bank was opened to get done. 
Well, you ask yourself, `How come the IRS has not done that?' The answer, Mr. President, again, is the law. There are insufficient incentives and there is no way to achieve consensus. 
We started this thing in 1995, 2 years ago, when Senator Shelby and I stood on the floor managing the Treasury-Postal bill. And we fought against the IRS because they had just been determined by the General Accounting Office to have wasted $4 billion in purchasing computers. 
We discovered in our restructuring commission these computers can't even talk to one another. You have a stove pipe organization, and one stove pipe doesn't talk to the other stove pipe, and it doesn't talk to the other stove pipe, and you can't get the information you need. It can take months and months and months to get information you need. 
Mr. President, time for the American taxpayer is money. And they pay for it twice. So this section in here, electronic filing. Again, I understand why it has been ignored by people who write editorial pieces, because it is not very glamorous. It is not, you know, a very hot issue. It is not the sort of thing that sort of gets the blood boiling. But it is the sort of thing that will save taxpayers an awful lot of time and an awful lot of money. 
Let me get to the third title. Those who say, `Well, how about all those concerns we hear in the Finance Committee that taxpayers were raising?' Title III deals with taxpayer protection and rights. I am willing to go further. Had this bill been brought to the floor a couple weeks ago, we could have, in fact, strengthened the Taxpayer Advocate Office. 
I am willing to make it more independent than it currently is even in this law, which gives the Taxpayer Advocate a lot more independence and a lot more power than they currently have. Hardly watered down, hardly insufficient, hardly minor if you are one of the taxpayers who get affected in here. We shift the burden of proof when you go to Tax Court--a big deal. 
Today the presumption is that the taxpayer is guilty. If you get a notice, if you are one of the 135,000 people every single day who received, in addition to other sorts of things in the mail, a little thing that says `Internal Revenue Service,' there isn't any feeling quite like that to wake you up in the morning. You get that little piece of notice in the mail and your hands shake. And you open it up, and it says, you owe $100, you owe $500, $1,000, whatever the number is. 
Under current law, the presumption is you are wrong; they are right. The burden is on you. You have to prove they are wrong, if you want to try to prove it. If you agree with them, fine, you send them a check. But if you say, `My gosh, I did this myself. I had an accountant help me. I had somebody else help me. I didn't make any mistake. I don't owe any additional money,' welcome to the club. Now it is for you to prove that you are right, they are wrong. 
We did not go as far as some would have liked to say, that you go immediately and shift the burden of proof so that the IRS has to prove you are wrong, because we felt that would punish and penalize the 83 out of 100 people who voluntarily comply who aren't receiving a notice; but we said, if you reach Tax Court, if you are unable to settle this thing and you reach Tax Court, it does shift now to the IRS. They have to prove that you are guilty, as is the case in every other court of law. This is not a minor change. Even though it was only several thousand people a year that end up in Tax Court, Mr. President, I will guarantee you, if you are one of those several thousand people, this is not a small change. This is a big change. And it will likely have a tremendous impact on your capacity to get a fair hearing before a U.S. Tax Court. 
In subtitle B of title III there are a number of things dealing with what is called proceedings by taxpayers. It expands the authority to award costs and fees. We earlier had a discussion yesterday of this. 
Today, you cannot get your attorney fees if you are found not to owe anything. Under this provision, the answer would be you would get attorney fees. You have the opportunity to be awarded up to $100,000 of civil damages if the IRS can be demonstrated to be negligent. Today, if the IRS is negligent or the IRS makes a mistake or the IRS is at fault, they don't have to worry about it. There is no penalty in place under the law to the IRS if they make a mistake. 
Under this law there would be. It changes their attitude. It puts them in the frame of mind of saying, `My gosh, if I'm going to send a letter out to somebody and say they owe money, I better make sure they owe money, I better be reasonably certain I can make the case in Tax Court and better be reasonably certain, because if I'm demonstrated to be wrong, we could be out of some dough here. And if I'm negligent,' which is very often the case, `if I'm negligent, we're going to have to pay a price for it.' 
We all understand that there needs to be some sort of negative sanction against behavior that could put people at risk. This law does that in a reasonable, responsible way, but certainly not in an insignificant way for those individuals out there--again, 135,000 every single working day--that are going to receive a notice of collection. This is not a small item for them. 
There is a title in here called `Elimination of Interest Rates Differential on Overlapping Periods of Interest on Income Tax Overpayments and Underpayments.' I will not go into this at length on the floor here this afternoon. Again this is not a small item. We have taxpayers out there saying, `My gosh, I don't understand it. You have given me a bill, I am in dispute, and I have to settle early because if I don't there is a possibility I could end up with a huge penalty.' In no court of law do you have that. In no court of law do you have a situation where a citizen says, `I better make up my mind in a hurry here, otherwise I could end up with an enormous penalty. I could be penalized as a consequence of trying to make my case.' 
Other titles here are `Protections for Taxpayers Subject to Audit or Collection Activities,' `Privilege of confidentiality extended to taxpayer's dealing with nonattorneys authorized to practice before Internal Revenue Service,' `Expansion of authority to issue taxpayer assistance orders,' `Limitation on financial status audit techniques,' `Limitation authority to require production of computer source code,' `Procedures relating to extensions of statutes of limitation by agreement,' or `Offers-in-compromise,' `Notice of deficiency to specify deadlines for filing Tax Court petition,' `Refund or credit of overpayments before final determination,' `Threat of audit prohibited to coerce Tip Reporting Alternative Commitment Agreements.' 
Mr. President, these are not small items. I would be surprised if there is a single Senate office that has not heard a taxpayer bring one, if not several, of these things to the attention of a Member. These are not small. These are not insignificant. These are changes that could shift and cause taxpayers to say, `Finally, you are doing something that makes sense.' The IRS cannot do it today. They are prohibited from doing these things. Again, we are a nation of laws, and once the laws are changed, the IRS will behave in the way the law directs. 
There is a subtitle, `Disclosures to Taxpayers.' What is the big deal? We had at least one witness before the Senate Finance Committee, a woman, who came and said she was surprised to discover that after her husband had divorced her and hit the road, she ended up being liable for his tax bill. We all heard it and said it was terrible, it shouldn't be the case. She was terrorized by the IRS. They put her and her new husband in jeopardy. She ended up getting divorced, Mr. President, over this because she was better off divorced. It is terrible. Change the law. 
Well, bring the bill up and vote on it. You want to wait until next year? You want to put these people at risk? You don't want to solve a problem you know you can solve by changing the law? I don't understand it. I simply don't understand it. I don't understand what benefit is gained by delaying. We have a bill that we can bring up today--today. All it would take is the majority leader persuading the Republicans on that side. Every single Democrat is ready to bring it up. As I say once it is here for a vote, my guess is it is unanimous. Once people start looking at the details of the bill and see what is in this bill itself, I don't think they will object to this. I don't think they will come down here and say, gee, these are small, these are insignificant, these aren't anything that is going to have an impact on people. 
Subtitle G is called `Low Income Taxpayer Clinics.' I say there are people who are working, people in the work force, people out there trying to figure out how to read the Tax Code. There must be something out there available to them. The answer is there is not. We are not spending a lot of money, but we are saying keep the playing field level, give people the opportunity to get their questions answered in the same way you can get a question answered if your income is high enough that you can hire an accountant to get the job done for you. 
Mr. President, these are not small items in this legislation. 
The next title in this bill is `Congressional Accountability for the Internal Revenue Service.' As I said earlier, as much praise as I got from the chairman after 3 days of hearings, we discovered for the first time in 21 years the subcommittee held a hearing. We had people criticize us. I guess every 21 years is too often. This is a requirement every 6 months for the Joint Tax Committee to meet and hold a hearing with this new public board. Why? Not just for oversight, but so we can get consensus on what the strategic plan is going to be. 
Every single private-sector person, every other government agency that talked to us about the technology investments, Mr. 
President--that is the key question. How do you make an investment in computers, and especially the software and operating system, for this 110,000-person agency that processes over 200 million returns a year? How do you do it when the processing occurs over a 150- or 180-day period? Every person that came to us said, unless you know where you are going, unless you have consensus on a strategic plan and understand the IRS currently has a board of directors that includes every single Member of Congress, 535 people on its board of directors--we heard witness after witness come to us and say the problem very often is not the IRS, but the Congress. 
You have to give better oversight, more consistent oversight so they know what they are supposed to do. Congress is giving permission. We are not saying there will be a blank check. Congress still retains the authority to cut, to do whatever it wants, in response to things it sees the IRS doing or not doing. Congress still retains the authority to authorize and appropriate money. We have to have a mechanism to improve the oversight that Congress gives the IRS. 
You say it is a small item. It is a big item. Mr. Rossotti will tell you it is a big item. There is one speed bump, and he is heading for Niagara Falls. When he will have 200 million returns filed, he hits one speed bump and he will come before six committees--three in the Senate and three in the House--to answer questions about what he did or didn't do and why he didn't solve the problems that he was supposed to solve. 
Mr. President, this piece of legislation has many other things, and I will probably have an opportunity to talk further about this. Members need to understand what is in the bill. You have heard complaints and concerns coming from citizens at home. This piece of legislation will solve an awful lot of those concerns. You will go home and your taxpayers will say to you, `For gosh sakes, what did you gain by delay?' I stand here and predict the statements didn't go far enough. We need to do more. My guess is all we are doing by waiting another 150 or whatever the days are, and we will pass a piece of legislation roughly the same. This is a very strong piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I hope in the time remaining, all it will take is my friends on the Republican side simply not objecting to bringing this bill up, for us to act on it and get it to the President with his signature. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the conference report was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed immediately H.R. 2676, the IRS Restructuring Act of 1997, just received from the House 2 days ago, that the bill be read a third time and passed, and the motion to reconsider be laid on the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this piece of legislation passed the House 426 to 4. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I thank the Chair. 
This piece of legislation will do what I think everybody in the country wants us to do; that is, to change the law, and give the newly confirmed Commissioner of the IRS the authority to run the agency. 
There are lots of other changes in this piece of legislation. It passed 426 to 4 in the House. It has the support of the administration. 
It should be taken up as long as we are in session. It was passed, I believe, almost unanimously once Members started to look at what is in the bill. 
It would enable the Commissioner to run the IRS, put together his team, to hire and fire, to provide positive incentives to reimburse employees, and establish a public board. It provides new accountability on the legislative side. It provides a basis to evaluate complexity, and provide incentives to move to electronic filing. 
Almost none of the things that I have mentioned, once people look at the legislation, are regarded as controversial today. In fact, when I point it out to people at home, they say, `My gosh, I am surprised they aren't already law.' 
We have heard and continue to hear complaints from our citizens about the way the IRS is run. It is time for us to give the Commissioner of the IRS the authority to manage the agency and do the things that the American people are asking us to do. 
As long as we are in session, I hope again that Members on the other side will look at this bill. And I will say again: I hope they will resist. I understand the Speaker is going to still try, in spite of the negative publicity, to get somewhere between $30 and $80 million to have the IRS conduct a 14-question opinion poll about how the IRS is being operated. Our restructuring commission spent $20,000, and asked most of these questions. If the IRS was doing this on their own, if somebody discovered that they were going to take $30 to $80 million instead of doing customer service, and instead of working with taxpayers, conducting a poll asking a question, `Do you think your taxes are fair or unfair?' and then have the questionnaires mailed back to GAO--Mr. President, again the Speaker of the House has indicated that he considers a priority issue the need to appropriate somewhere between $30 and $80 million to have the IRS conduct a 14-question poll. That is considered a high priority. 
I believe that if it was discovered that was in the bill, or that the IRS was doing this own their own, there would be 100 votes in this chamber against it--14 questions, $30 to $80 million. It is going to be mailed to every-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I would be pleased to agree to a UC to yield to the distinguished majority and Democratic leader, and then give the floor back to me. I would be pleased to do that, if you want to do a UC for that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The UC would do what again? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I asked the Senate to grant unanimous consent to proceed immediately to H.R. 2676, which is the IRS Restructuring Act of 1997 that was received from the House on Wednesday, that the bill be read a third time and passed and the motion to reconsider be laid on the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. Actually, I believe it is 426 to 4. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. It creates a public board that would for the first time have oversight of the IRS, have the power to develop a strategic plan, and make budget recommendations to the Secretary of the Treasury. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. A taxpayer under this legislation, under this new law, would have the power to collect attorney's fees and to collect up to $100,000 if the IRS was held to be negligent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. It does create a toll-free number and powerful new incentives to move to electronic filing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. A new public board, in fact, would make the hiring decision and create an independent taxpayer advocate. The current advocate, as you know, is an employee of the IRS and, as a consequence, although he has done a good job, in many ways has a conflict of interest because his performance is being judged by IRS managers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-8-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-9-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. This law would change it when it reached the tax court. In those cases where the taxpayer reached the tax court, the presumption would not be on the taxpayers to prove that they are innocent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-10-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is true. In fact, the 3 days of hearings that the Senate Finance Committee held under the leadership of Chairman Roth clearly exposed incidents out there in violation of the law where audits are done, where collection efforts are made based on quotas, based upon goals to try to go out and get individuals, regardless of whether or not there was additional tax actually being owed. In addition, I would say to my friend from Nevada, the current law allows the IRS to keep confidential and private all audit criteria. 
Citizens may be surprised to know this, but if you ask the IRS today, `What are your audit criteria? On what basis do you evaluate the taxpayers of Iowa or Delaware or Nebraska or Vermont or Mississippi? How do you evaluate your audits? How do you decide on what basis you are going to proceed on an audit?' the IRS will say to you, `You don't have a right to know. We won't disclose that information.' The only available information has been obtained through a woman at the University of Syracuse through a Freedom of Information Act request for that information. If you look at audit data she has collected, you see broad variations, broad variations from State to State. In one State there will be very high percentages of audits; in another, very low percentages of audits. It is very inconsistent and subjective. Under this law, the audit standards and the criteria for audit would have to be made public. It would, as well, create a mechanism for expedited answers of Freedom of Information Act requests. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-11-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The answer is absolutely yes. Indeed, I said the House passed this bill 426 to 4 on Wednesday. I came to the floor and asked unanimous consent to take it up on Thursday, did so again on Friday, and did so again on Saturday. I say to those who are wondering what is the impact of this, what is the impact of delay, the Senator is exactly right. The Senator is exactly right. There are 135,000 notices every single day. Every single day, 135,000 notices are sent to the taxpayers of the United States of America. What do those notices say? They say: You owe us more money. 
Talk to somebody--I urge my colleagues, particularly on the other side of the aisle--talk to taxpayers who get one of these notices. Ask them how much power they have. Ask them how they feel when they receive one these letters. Ask them what kind of access they have to the IRS under the current law. And they will tell you it's a terrifying moment when you receive that letter. You either pay it or you know you are going to spend an awful lot of money and an awful lot of time to dispute the dollar amount that the IRS says that you owe. 
In addition, every single day, 250,000 Americans call the IRS. A quarter of them can't even get through. And of the ones that get through, 25 percent get the wrong answer. It is one of the reasons, when we did our poll----  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-12-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Unlike this remarkable poll, and I have to say I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will object if Speaker Gingrich tries to allocate somewhere between $30 and $100 million of taxpayer money for a 14-question poll, among which questions are: Do you think taxes are fair or unfair? 
Whatever you think about this piece of legislation--do it next year or do it now, on behalf of the taxpayers--I will guarantee if the IRS was spending $100 million which could go to taxpayer service, which could go to lots of other things, to do a 14-question poll mailed out to 80 million taxpayers, made available in every single post office, mailed out to every single provider, and then, guess what, then you mail it back, the taxpayer does, to the General Accounting Office to be compiled--you are not going to have 250,000 phone calls every single day. You are going to have another 100,000 phone calls from taxpayers who are going to say, `What the heck does this mean?' They are going to call their service centers. 
So, while we are all sitting here saying we want the IRS to operate better, we have under consideration a poll that is going to make it more difficult for the IRS to do their job because you are going to have another 100,000 phone calls or so coming into the IRS 
office by confused taxpayers wondering what this is all about. 
Between the time that this piece of legislation was passed by the House--and it is right down here at desk. All we have to do is ask unanimous consent to take this up. All the Republicans have to do is not object, allow the bill to be taken up. There have been 270,000 citizens between the time it got to that desk and right now--270,000 citizens got notices in the mail that they owe taxes. And another half a million who have called the IRS, trying to get a question answered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-13-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes. In fact, not only does the National Federation of Independent Businessmen support this legislation, not only do most of the providers organizations that help taxpayers fill out their forms, but the head of the National Treasury Employees Union supports this legislation and has indicated that he wants to get it passed in a hurry. 
Former Secretary of Treasury Baker and Brady and current Secretary of Treasury Rubin support this legislation. The previous IRS Commissioner, Peggy Richardson, supports this legislation, as does previous Commissioner Fred Goldberg, who is a member of the Commission. 
You are absolutely right. The employees themselves are saying give the Commissioner the authority. When Mr. Rossotti came before the Finance Committee, everybody was very impressed that the President would send up an individual who had experience in the private sector. Mr. Rossotti said, `I am going to manage this agency.' 
I said to him, `You know, Mr. Rossotti, you are going to get over there and you will have a lot of responsibility but you don't have any authority. You can't even bring on the senior management, you can't provide the private-sector incentives you are describing out there. You have six legislative committees, three in the House and three in the Senate, with jurisdiction over you. You get through this next filing season with no problems and life is going to be good for you, but just have a little glitch between now and then and you are going to find out people are going to call you up in a hurry and blame you for all the things that you have no authority to do.' 
So I hope my colleagues on the other side will look at this legislation. The chairman has indicated he has objections, he would like to add some additional things. Most of the things he wants to add I support. I would like to get it done. He wants to hold hearings next year and do it. But these changes, for gosh shakes--if you look at the law as passed by the House, right down here at the desk, you scratch your head and say: For gosh sakes, that's common sense. We ought to already allow it. 
So, on behalf of the taxpayers who get notices and will be calling the IRS every single day between now and the next year, I hope, between now and the next days, we can pass it. We could conference this thing in record time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-14-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Not only is that true but my guess is, if it were to be taken up, if no objection were placed against this unanimous-consent request, my guess is on final passage you would get 100 votes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-15-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I think it is fair to say that. There are some who will say I want the board to have more authority, a few odds and ends done, but I don't think anybody in the Chamber would object to changing the law to give the Commissioner the authority to manage this agency or do all the other things the distinguished Senator from Nevada has identified on behalf of taxpayers, like 
providing a public statement of the basis of audits--I don't think anybody could object to doing that. And anybody looking at it, I think, would say, `Gee, that is not going to make things worse. That's going to make things an awful lot better for those taxpayers getting notices and those taxpayers calling the IRS.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-16-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I completely agree with the distinguished Senator from Nevada on that point. Again, as long as we are in session, I intend to continue to come to the floor and ask unanimous consent to take this legislation up. Not because I think it is controversial, but because I think it is not controversial. We are hammering out in back-rooms all over this Capitol all kinds of deals to try to get fast track, to try to get things that are extremely controversial. This one is not. It has extremely broad support, a large margin of victory when it passed: 426 to 4 in the House. It is going to conference very easily. I have been down here three times. I will continue to come down here and ask unanimous consent to proceed immediately to consideration of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-17-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I will be happy to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-18-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-19-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. You would be entitled to attorney's fees under this bill, yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-20-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-21-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I actually do not have an answer to your question, as to whether or not that is the case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-22-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I don't have an answer, specifically, to your question. I can say that one of the things that we have done with this legislation is to make the taxpayer advocate more independent. Very often that is what is missing. Let's say that you are one of the 135,000, or you are one of the 270,000 since we have asked for this bill to be taken up, who get a notice and you disagree with that notice. There is a dispute resolution officer who works for the taxpayer advocate that you can call up. You can say, `Look, I have a dispute here. I think it is unfair. I would like to come in and talk to you.' There is a mechanism under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights II to do that. And what we do is make that taxpayer advocate even more independent. 
Very often what happens is the law requires the revenue agent to collect, even though the revenue agents say this doesn't make any sense. There is no mechanism that enables the revenue agent to be overruled. What we do is, by giving that taxpayer advocate more independence and more power and more authority to overrule, I think we are going to reduce substantially the number of cases where a person looks at it and says, `My gosh, why would you spend a quarter of a million dollars to collect 100 bucks, or something like that?' These are cases that come all the time into our offices, and under the current law we are simply not able to do anything. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-23-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I appreciate both the Senators' questions and statements. As a former Governor, I have commented right from the beginning that he could fire anybody who was a discourteous employee. 
Let me say again, for the record, we have a remarkable system of tax collection in the United States that is largely voluntary. One of the disturbing things about the current trend is we have gone from 93 percent voluntary compliance down to 83 percent in the last 30 years. That means 83 percent of our taxpayers voluntarily comply, and they are paying higher taxes as a result of the 17 percent who don't. 
There is a need to make certain there is a sufficient amount of law enforcement out there. The dilemma, though, is the current law, and I underscore this because we are a nation of laws, after all. The IRS is not a corporation. It is created by law, and it operates under law. Nobody doubts if their workload went up as a result of the balanced budget agreement we just passed. There is significant new complexity in there of, what, four or five different rates you are paying for capital gains. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-24-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. An additional 800 pages in the code. Lord knows, this is good news to them compared to some years we don't pass a tax bill until about now, until they are almost always into their filing season. 
What we have to understand, what citizens need to understand is the IRS is managed according to law. So title I of this bill that is sitting down here at this desk passed 421 to 4 in the House. Title I of this bill deals with management and accountability. Who could possibly object to passing a piece of legislation that would give the Commissioner of the IRS the management authority to do what you just described? 
If the President of the United States calls up the Tax Commissioner, who he just appointed and we just confirmed, and says, `I just heard Senator Bumpers on the floor say something really pretty smart, unusual. He said that when he was Governor of Arkansas, he told his revenue commissioner that anybody who is discourteous is going to be fired. I want you to do that.' 
Do you know what Mr. Rossotti would say? `That is a great idea, Mr. President, but the law doesn't give me that authority. I can't even hire my senior people. I can't manage this agency.' The law doesn't give him that authority. It is not a corporation, it is a creature of law, and we have written this law so as to confine and make it difficult for the Commissioner to do the job. 
You would think the question the Senator from Nevada asked earlier, if he is going to have this new authority to hire and fire, certainly the employees must be against that. Absolutely not. The Treasury Employees Union supports this legislation. Why? They know the Commissioner can't manage the agency. They know the new provisions not only to manage the agency but to provide accountability and oversight, both with a new public board and with a restructured legislative oversight process, is necessary, is needed, in order to get shared consensus on what the strategic plan is going to be. 
That is what has been failing over the years. That is what has been missing over the years. By the way, I have only been here 8 years, but I have never heard a Commissioner get up during the middle of a tax debate and say, `Gee, Mr. President, that's a great tax idea you have,' or `Senator' whoever, `that's a great tax idea you have, but this is what it is going to cost the taxpayer to comply.' 
The taxpayers already spend $200 billion a year--$200 billion a year--just to fill out the forms. You say everybody in this body ought to be for simplification. I think the tax bill passed 90-some to 8. I know I voted for it. I think the distinguished Senator from Arkansas did not, so he can reclaim the floor and tell me what a fool I was, talking about simplification out of one side of my mouth and out of the other side of my mouth I voted for something that creates complexity. 
For the first time, we give the Commissioner the authority to be at the table when tax law is written for the taxpayer and say, `This is what it is going to cost the taxpayer, this is what they are going to have to do to comply, Mr. President, or Mr. Chairman, of whatever.' 
We would give under this law the Commissioner not just the authority to manage, not just a restructured public board that would give the citizens a view of what is going on inside this agency and restructuring Congress so there is more consistent oversight. 
The wonderful hearings the Finance Committee had, I was shocked to find out that was the first time in 20 years where the full committee had hearings of that kind. Some people criticize us saying we bash the IRS. I guess once every 20 years is all we are supposed to do. 
The law is what dictates what the IRS can and cannot do. The law does. We can't bash the employees, the managers of the IRS on the one hand while on the other hand we refuse to take up a piece of legislation that would give the Commissioner the authority to do everything that we say we want the Commissioner to do. 
So, as I said, it has been since Wednesday that the bill got down there. I have done this now three times on 3 straight days, and in that time, a quarter of a million taxpayers have received notices in the mail: `Dear Mr. and Mrs. Smith, you owe us X amount of dollars.' Another half a million people have called up their IRS service center or their IRS office and tried to get a question answered and haven't been able to do so. 
Again, I underscore, I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle understand that the Speaker may be successful in getting $30 million, up to $100 million of taxpayer money allocated to do a 14-question poll. If you look at these questions, you would say, `My gosh, we can answer those questions without spending $30 to $80 million of taxpayers' money to get answers that are so obvious it is embarrassing to even ask them, even if it were for free.'  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-25-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I will be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-26-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Indeed, the restructuring commission did a poll for $20,000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-27-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. What was the question again? 
Mr. President, I hope that in the next day or two, while we are deliberating in this world's greatest deliberative body, resolving all the terrible conflicts we have on a variety of things, I hope we are able to get consideration of this legislation. I believe it will pass almost unanimously, if not unanimously, in the Senate. I believe it could be conferenced very, very quickly with the House and be on to the President. 
I think all of us, once it is passed and signed by the President, will feel glad that we changed the law to give the Commissioner the kind of authority that the Commissioner is going to need to manage this rather difficult and troubled agency. 
I thank, again, my very patient chairman for waiting for this opportunity to respond. I appreciate, again, his leadership in conducting 3 days of public hearings, piercing the 6103 veil to be able to see inside this agency even further than what the restructuring commission did. I yield the floor. 
Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-28-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I want to respond, and then I will get out of here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-29-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, again, I want to praise the chairman of the Finance Committee for the hearings and the chance given to this. I respectfully disagree. I don't think we will just get one bite of the apple. I believe Majority Leader Lott and the Speaker are committed to going further. Both of them have talked especially about the need to simplify the Tax Code. I would be surprised if either one of them would object to some of the additional things that Chairman Roth has indicated that he wants to address. 
I just say very respectfully on behalf of the taxpayers who are not going to have an agency that is managed well, this is not just a public board. Title I does change the way that oversight occurs, both on the legislative and on the executive side. There is no question that that change is important. But I believe that the most important piece of this legislation is giving the Commissioner the authority under the law to manage the agency. That is the most important thing that is missing today. 
Second, I think it is not a small item to say that for the first time, the American people will have an agency that will be required under the law to provide them the audit standards. Why do you audit a certain way in Nebraska, a certain way in Iowa and a certain way in all the other States? 
What is the basis of the audits? 
Today, the IRS, under the law--they don't withhold it because they are being ornery or don't withhold it because they just don't want to give it to us. The law says: Do not give it. The law says: Do not provide it publicly. 
It is not a small item to provide to the taxpayers public information, to give them a window on why audits are done, and what is the standard to which audits occur. It is not a small item to shift to the taxpayer additional power and give the taxpayer advocate the kind of independence that the taxpayers themselves have asked for over and over and over. 
We had 12 days of public hearings. The congressionally mandated restructuring commission that Congressman Portman and I chaired, during that we heard over and over and over that the No. 1 problem is the law--the law in regards to complexity, the law in regards to power, the law in regards to oversight, the law in regards to management. 
This process started clear back in 1995 when we discovered that through a GAO audit that nearly $3.5 billion of the taxpayer money had been wasted on a taxpayer modernization system. Why? Because the IRS and the Congress don't have a mechanism where they can reach consensus on a strategic plan. And without a strategic plan, no matter what you did with technology, you are apt to spend money incorrectly. 
So this process began over 2 years ago and has deliberated that entire time. And I have to say, I am not going to go home--if this piece of legislation were to be enacted--and I intend to come down again and ask unanimous consent so that it can be taken up. It is lying right there at the table. It is not one of these controversial things that we are debating, trying to get done, so we can get out of here. This one is going to pass with a big margin. 
I don't have to go home and say it solves every problem. I don't have go home and say we have solved every education problem because we just passed Labor-HHS. We know there is still work to be done next year. We know there is still work to be done in the defense authorization bill. We didn't hold it up because we said, `Gosh, we've got to solve every problem before we enact this legislation.' We understand--I hope we understand that our best course is to try to make incremental progress, do those things where Republicans and Democrats know that change in the law will improve the operation of some agency of Government.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-30-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I will be pleased to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-31-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. No. Indeed, it is endorsed by almost every organization outside of the Government that has contact with the IRS. The National Federation of Independent Businessmen supports this legislation, as well as the National Treasury Employees Union supports this legislation. The accountants support the legislation. The enrolled agents support the legislation. I mean, groups that deal daily with the IRS are asking the Congress to change the law. 
There have been objections raised that it doesn't do something in addition; but, again, we can do all of that. We do not have to get every single thing done in order to change the law if we know that the change in the law will improve the operational efficiency of some agency of Government, especially one that sends out 135,000 notices every single day to taxpayers that they owe additional money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-32-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The Treasury Department and the administration support the bill that is lying right down there, that if there was no objection we would take up immediately here and pass in the Senate as well. Not only does the Treasury support it, but former Treasury Secretary Brady, former Treasury Secretary Baker, former Commissioner Richardson, and former Commissioner Goldberg. 
I mean, everybody that has looked at the law, they can say it could go further, do additional things, but nobody has lodged an argument that says the changes in this law would not stand a very good chance of improving the operational efficiency experienced by taxpayers who receive notices every day and by taxpayers who have questions and call up the IRS and try to get those questions answered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-33-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-34-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I could not agree with you more. There are actually 800,000 notices every single year of audits--excuse me, every month that goes out to---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-35-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes, 800,000 a month of contacts to the IRS or audits or matters that are almost as serious as an audit that goes out to some taxpayers. There is no question, if we take this bill up that is lying right down there now that passed 421-4--probably pass here 100-0--there is no question that all of those taxpayers would have more power. 
They may still not like the outcome. They may have to pay more taxes, and not like it, but they would have a lot more power, a much more efficient agency, and a much more happy ending as a consequence. 
There are things that the IRS does that they ought not be required under the law to do, that nobody says they ought to be doing. Though I say again, the chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth of Delaware, has quite accurately said, there are additional things we could do. But, for gosh sakes, given the burden the taxpayers have, given the difficulty they have, and given the broad support, after 12 public hearings, and after thousands of meetings with IRS employees and provider groups in the private sector, private sector companies that are offering competitive services, other nations' governments that have had similar problems that have gone through the similar process of trying to improve the operation of their tax collection agency--this is not something that was put together in a couple weeks' time in response to a problem identified. 
This has been something that has been debated well over a year and has broad bipartisan support and would unquestionably, for every taxpayer out there that might receive an audit or might receive a collection notice or might have to call the IRS and get a question answered--every single one of them would benefit if we could just pass this law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-36-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. They would get their attorney fees paid up; and if there was negligence, up to $100,000. And we establish assistance centers out there for the first time for taxpayers who are struggling to get questions answered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-37-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is correct. One of the things that this law does in title II is deal with a new trend that all of us understand, which is electronic commerce. We see a lot of electronic commerce developing out there in the private sector. The IRS has been struggling to get electronic filing up and online. 
The significance of it is that when you file electronically, the error rate is less than 1 percent. Error is real money. You make a mistake on the Government side with a tax claim, and it could end up in court for years and years and years and cost the taxpayer and the Government tremendous amounts of money. So errors are real money. In the paper world, the rate of error is 25 percent. 
So we provide both incentives and resources to get to a much higher number of electronic filings which I think for taxpayers who pay to run the IRS, as well as taxpayers who are sending their money, is a tremendously important change in the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-38-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. No question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-39-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. The Senator is right. You are absolutely right. The culture, though, is not going to change at the IRS until we give the IRS Commissioner the management authority the manager needs to be able to run the agency with performance that is based upon something other than these quotas that have been set up. Although it has been a relatively small number of instances where we identified them, it still--relatively small--it is one too many. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the situation in Iraq regarding the U.N. inspection regime and the refusal of the Iraqi Government to accept American inspectors and thus delay the inspections. The Iraqi purpose is clear: to attack the unity and will of the world community, and especially the members of the Security Council, concerning sanctions to Iraq; to weaken the authority of the United Nations by dictating terms of compliance to U.N. Security Council resolutions; and most important, to conceal and retain and build up the chemical and biological weapons programs of the Iraqi military. 
Once again we are in a crisis with Iraq; not of our making but of theirs. The question being debated here and in the United Nations is: What should we do? 
The crisis began a week ago on October 29, 1997 when Saddam Hussein sought to evict from Iraq Americans who are assigned to international inspection teams sent by the United Nations to enforce a cease fire agreement signed by Iraq on April 6, 1991, following the January 17 to February 28 war to liberate Kuwait known as Desert Storm. In the agreement Iraq promised to pay Kuwait for war damages, to destroy all its nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons capacity, and to allow inspectors into their country to verify compliance. On April 11, 1991, the U.N. Security Council officially declared an end to the war and to continuing the sanctions originally imposed on August 6, 1990. 
The Security Council created the Special Commission, also known as UNSCOM, to carry out the inspection of Iraqi installations in order to verify the destruction of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons capacity. UNSCOM--originally expected to be in operation for several months--has been in business for 6 years. During these past 6 years the UNSCOM inspectors have met with success. They reduced the Iraqi stockpile of weapons of mass destruction more than the war itself. Iraq has considerably less capability than it had when Desert Storm ended. That is the goods news. The bad news is that they retain sufficient capacity to pose a real and serious threat to the people of the United States. 
The nature of this residual threat can be seen in a letter sent to the United Nations on Wednesday by Richard Butler, an arms control expert who heads the UNSCOM. According to Mr. Butler the Iraqis could easily adapt laboratory or industrial equipment to resume making prohibited materials. In his letter he says: `For example, it would take only a matter of hours to adapt fermenters to produce seed stocks of biological warfare agents. Furthermore, it appears that cameras may have been intentionally tampered with, lenses covered and lighting turned off in the facilities under monitoring.' 
The idea of biological weapons in the hands of Iraq's Saddam Hussein should strike fear in the hearts of every American. This man is dangerous to his own people, his neighbors, and to us. 
He is also clever. His latest ploy has produced more benefits for him than losses. Again, Mr. Butler is our guide. In his letter he says that, while we attempt to negotiate a right that was guaranteed under the peace agreement they signed, Iraq has been able to hide evidence and disable surveillance equipment. He specifically notes that we cannot monitor machinery that can balance missile guidance systems or equipment that could grow seed stocks of biological agents in a matter of hours. 
Mr. Butler calls our attention to two actions Iraq has taken during the week when inspectors were absent. First, significant pieces of equipment that had been under the view of video monitoring system have been moved out of range of cameras. Second, monitoring equipment has been tampered with in other areas. 
Even if inspections start again, Saddam Hussein has succeeded in making our work more difficult. We must reset and re-aim surveillance cameras. We must recheck the machinery or stocks of materials these cameras watch. And we should not be certain whether prohibited arms or components had been produced in crash programs and carried away to be hid. 
So, while we sit and wonder what we should do, Saddam Hussein sits and counts the ways he has benefited. A U.N. team sent by Secretary General Kofi Amnan has just returned with nothing to show for their efforts. The team leader, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi of Algeria was quoted as saying the Iraqis were very nice. Well, why not be nice? After succeeding 2 weeks ago in defeating United States efforts to impose more intense sanctions at the Security Council, Iraq has now gotten the U.N. to send a special negotiating team to ask politely if Iraq will do what it promised to do 6 years ago when it was suing for peace. 
Mr. President, we cannot allow the situation in Iraq to continue to head in its current direction. Too much is at stake. American security and the security of our allies and interests hangs in the balance of our decision. 
For my part I have reached the conclusion that our policy of containment cannot succeed. We need an objective which will ensure our security. We need a goal which will guarantee the stability we seek for the region. 
As has always been the case, an outrageous act by Saddam Hussein has provoked a strong reaction in this country. Military responses are broadly discussed. Editorial pages talk of making sure our military response if a head shot at Saddam himself, as though assassination were a legal option for U.S. forces. At some point we may turn to a military response appropriate in scope and direction to achieve immediate and longer terms goals. A measured action, complete with the certainty of further response if necessary, may be what is called for in this situation. But I believe we need to ensure that our military actions, as well as our diplomatic and economic efforts, are part of an overall strategy toward Iraq which will attain a goal consistent with American ideals and interests. 
Today, the United States and the international community are considering whether the proper response to Saddam's actions is a limited military action targeting suspected facilities or continued talks aimed at a more diplomatic end to this impasse. These are tactical options which will enable the United States and the international community to continue to muddle through its current strategy of containment toward Iraq. While the containment of Saddam has brought limited success in disarming his military, this strategy has been ineffective in changing the behavior of the Iraqi Government and is in danger of becoming more ineffective with the passage of time. 
Some commentators state that the cohesion of the Persian Gulf coalition has naturally grown more tenuous as other nations rediscover the promise of Iraqi petrodollars. They believe that our former coalition partners will inevitably find Iraq's oil wealth so tempting as to overlook the risks involved in the reemergence of a military powerful Saddam. I believe this need not be the case, if United States can formulate a strategy with clear policy objectives instead of continuing with a strategy of simply reacting to the Iraqi dictator's latest violation. We need to change our goals, our strategy, and our tactics. 
I believe our policy toward Iraq should be open and direct--The United States seeks to remove the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein in Iraq and to replace it with a democratic government. Nothing more, nothing less. 
Our frustration with Saddam is understandable. Six years ago we thought we had him. He failed utterly, ruined his country and two neighboring countries, caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people, and by our political lights he should be gone. But by his politics, the politics of a terror rivaled in this century only by Stalin's, Saddam keeps his job and we are rightly frustrated. 
While Saddam rules, Iraq poses a threat to its neighbors and, by extension, to us. He still has SCUD missiles which could carry his chemical and biological agents to Israel, to Saudi Arabia, and to other nations in the region whose security is a vital American interest. He has ground forces which could invade Kuwait again or embroil any of his other contiguous neighbors in war. Those same forces threaten or oppress Iraq's Kurdish and Shiite minorities every day. 
If Saddam retains power and escapes from sanctions, the threat he will pose in a decade will be far greater. He will have intermediate range or even long range missiles to carry his deadly payloads, he may have developed a nuclear weapon, and he will again have many billions of dollars in oil income to modernize his Armed Forces. He will be a major threat to his country and in fact to the entire world. We simply cannot let it happen, and I am confident we will not. 
In considering how to respond to Saddam's latest outrage, President Clinton and the Congress need to take the long view, looking past the incident of the moment to determine the long-range outcome we want. Because we are the United States, and because we have already expended lives and treasure because of Iraq, I think our long-range goal should be ambitious. 
We know from Iraqi history that Iraq is predisposed to dictatorship. We also know the dictatorships from this unbalanced state will inevitably threaten their neighbors. So getting rid of Saddam is not good enough. We need to get rid of Iraqi dictatorship. Our long-range goal should be a democratic Iraq. Other countries may be tempted to do business deals with the Iraqi dictator and tactfully glance away from his abuse of his people. We Americans should settle for nothing less than democracy. 
An impossible, naive dream? I think not. The Iraqi people, despite the lobotomy Saddam has tried to give them, are a well-educated, skilled people. They know the horrors of dictatorship better than anyone else on Earth. When Iraqis tell me their heartfelt commitment to a democratic future for their country, I believe them. 
How do we turn this yearning for democracy into the reality of a free Iraq? Let me lay out a road map. First, we should maintain sanctions on Iraq and return to the inspection system which existed until October 29, when Saddam excluded American inspectors from the teams. If we have to use military force to get Iraqi compliance, fine. We should strive to have our coalition partners join us in this use because the power of the world community to bring an outlaw to heel is at issue here. If Iraq can thumb its nose at the Security Council today, some other rogue state will do the same tomorrow, and the system we and our allies have carefully built over 52 years will collapse. But even if some of our coalition partners don't join us, we should act militarily if Iraq won't back down. 
Second, we must convince our core European and Asian allies that democracy, not just the compliance of a dictator, is the right long-term goal for Iraq. We must show our allies the far greater benefits and reduced risks that will accrue to them as well as to us from a democratic Iraq. We must sign up our allies for the long term. 
Third, we must make the people of Iraq our allies, too. We must go beyond merely stating our support for democracy and instead put concrete encouragements on the table, solid indicators of Western commitment to Iraqi democracy. We should announce we will forgive Iraqi debt if a democratic regime takes power there and we should encourage our allies to do the same. We should state clearly the loan and foreign assistance preferences which a democratic Iraq would receive from United States and multinational institutions. We should discuss our preparations to supply immediate food and medical assistance to Iraq at the moment of Saddam's replacement by a regime which states its intention to hold free elections. And we should make sure, by means of Voice of America and commercial media, that every Iraqi knows about these encouragements to be democratic. Even before change comes, these steps will restore hope in Iraqi hearts. 
Fourth, we should openly and consistently state our goal of a free, democratic Iraq. To accept less and to say less is simply unworthy of our heritage. Let democracy, respect for human rights, and a free economy be our consistent mantra for Iraq, as it ought to be for every country, and some day, not far off, when Saddmam's prisons and graveyards and secret weapons sites are opened and the Iraqi people can tell the story of their suffering, we will be proud that we set a lofty goal. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Chair. 
Mr. President, are we in morning business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. It is only 20 to 6. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, 2 years ago Senator Shelby, the distinguished Senator from Alabama, and I were managing the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill on the floor at about this time of the year, I believe. 
And one of the actions that we had taken in our bill was to zero out the drug czar's office. And the reason that we had done that was that we were quite unhappy with the progress and the performance and, especially, the effort made to interdict and the effort here at home to try to get young people to quit consuming drugs. 
We were persuaded at the end of the day, Senator Hatch, Senator Biden, and the President himself, saying that they were going to make some substantial changes. 
Change No. 1 that they made was to bring on Barry McCaffrey, a retired Army general. I do not know how they talked him into it. Somehow they managed to talk him into coming back and being the drug czar. 
Yesterday, Mr. President, Barry McCaffrey sent a letter to the Secretary of Defense. Among other things he has done over the past couple years, this justifies both the President's confidence in him and Senator Shelby's and my confidence that action would occur. 
General McCaffrey sent Secretary Cohen, Secretary of Defense, a letter on the 6th of November saying essentially that: 
The National Narcotics Leadership Act requires that the Office of National Drug Control Policy review the drug budget of each department and certify whether the amount requested is adequate to implement the drug control program of the President. For [fiscal year] 1999, the Department of Defense has requested $809 million for drug control programs, approximately the same level as FY 1998. After careful review, ONDCP has determined pursuant to 21 U.S.C. . . . that this budget cannot be certified. 
Mr. President, this is a gutsy move. As you know, as everybody around this town very long knows, to send the Department of Defense a letter saying, `We're not going to certify that your budget is adequate to accomplish the strategy that we have all approved in terms of fighting drugs in America,' is a rather substantially gutsy move. And I support it 100 percent. 
Perhaps Secretary Cohen will have a response to it. I have a great deal of respect for Secretary Cohen as well. Perhaps he will be able to come back and give a justification as to why the additional money for the Andean Coca Reduction Initiative, for the Mexican Initiative, for the Caribbean Violent Crime and Regional Interdiction Initiative, and for the National Guard Counterdrug Operations are fully funded at the $809 million level. 
My guess is, he will not. My guess is that General McCaffrey has done his homework and analyzed it well and understands what the drug policy is supposed to accomplish. And he understands that as drug czar he has authority. 
In the past, drug czars have not exercised that authority quite as willingly. Barry McCaffrey did. And I hope this Congress supports him. All of us, when we are home, we will have townhall meetings. And if the subject of drugs comes up of, what are we doing? people say to me, `At least I hear you say it's a war on drugs. Describe the nature of the war we're fighting. Are we winning it? Are we losing it? What kind of resources are we putting into it?' I say, `We've got a drug czar. We've got a drug strategy. And we're implementing that drug strategy. We're not going to hold anything back in order to be successful.' 
What General McCaffrey has done is he has called upon the Department of Defense to do just that. As I said, I have not seen Secretary Cohen's response to this letter. I am here this evening just to applaud the drug czar for having the courage that previously drug czars have been a little reluctant to show. And if it is shown that these additional resources are needed in order to be able to answer the question at home in townhall meetings in Nebraska that that is what is needed to get the job done, then I hope the Congress will provide the Department of Defense with the resources and insist that the Department of Defense allocate in 1999 the resources in order to be able to get it done. 
I have not read all of them, the three- or four- or five-part series in the Washington Post on the problem of drugs coming across the border--so-called. There is not much of a border between the United States and Mexico. It is over 2,000 miles. And from what I have seen down there, there is not much to let you know when you are in Mexico or in the United States. And there is a tremendous amount of truck and automobile traffic and an awful lot of resources and money behind the effort to get drugs into the United States. 
It is corrupting Mexico, making it difficult for them to operate--an extremely violent world. And in this morning's paper, there is a story about Mr. Fuentes' doctors, three of whom were held responsible for his death, apparently, giving him a facelift or something so he would look a little different. They were found in concrete canisters along a road in Mexico. 
These guys play for keeps. From their standpoint, it is a war. From their standpoint, they are deploying the maximum amount of resources, their considerable amount of wealth and resources. 
Barry McCaffrey, a first-rate military officer, now our drug czar, when he says to me, `We need additional resources in order to be successful in these four areas,' I pay attention to him. And I applaud his willingness to be able to come to the Department of Defense and to this Congress and say, `This is what we need to do in order to be successful.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I yield the floor. 
Mr. BURNS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed immediately to H.R. 2767, the IRS Restructuring Act of 1997, just received yesterday from the House, that the bill be read three times and passed, and the motion to reconsider laid on the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I hope my colleagues understand this legislation is something that will, by all accounts, today improve the operational efficiency of the IRS. It does not address many of the issues that were raised by the Senate Finance Committee during its 3 days of hearings and the chairman has indicated he is going to take those up next year. But in the 24 hours since I have offered this unanimous-consent resolution there have been 135,000 notices sent to taxpayers asking them to pay additional taxes and over 250,000 phone calls made by taxpayers to the IRS, trying to get information. These are the two principal points of contact, of irritation, that taxpayers have brought to us over and over and over. 
The IRS Commissioner under current law simply does not have the authority to manage the agency. He can't hire and fire his top people, can't provide financial incentives, doesn't have the kind of oversight that's needed and doesn't have the requirement to publish his audit data. All that is kept for the moment confidential. 
This piece of legislation, passed almost unanimously by the House, would certainly get nearly a unanimous vote here in the Senate as well. Everything in this legislation--if you look at it you would say, `My gosh, I'm surprised it isn't done already.' As I said, every single day we wait, another 135,000 or so notices are going to go out to taxpayers that they owe additional taxes; a quarter of a million phone calls are going to be coming into the IRS, and they are not going to be managed nearly as well. 
In our own survey we did to determine what was going on out there we found that 70 percent of the people who call in say they get good service from the phone calls, but that means that 3 out of 10 do not get good service. They are complaining. They are not getting their questions answered, for those who actually get through: A 25 percent error rate in the current environment, the current paper environment; less than 1 percent for electronic filing. The law that we propose, that was passed, as I said, nearly unanimously by the House, provides new incentives and powers to move to electronic filing. I hope my colleagues will understand the urgency of doing this. And what will happen, the price the taxpayers will pay, with a delay. 
In this morning's papers there were stories about the Speaker saying he was going to try, in one of the conference committees, to get an amendment accepted that would have the IRS doing something that I can't imagine that anybody in this body would support. My guess is, if we discovered the IRS was doing what the Speaker is saying that he would like the IRS to do, most of us would be out here on the floor speaking out against it. He is proposing that the IRS conduct a poll, a 14-question poll. If you look at questions, you know what the answers are going to be. `Do you think your taxes are fair or unfair?' 
Not only a poll, but every single American taxpayer would be mailed under separate cover this poll. Not only would the taxpayer be mailed the poll, but the poll would also go to post offices, it would go to preparers, this poll would go to anybody who has contact with the IRS. The taxpayer then would be asked to fill out the questionnaire and mail it--not back to the IRS, but back to the General Accounting Office where they would be compiled and the results then would be published. The estimate of the costs to do that range from about $30 million up to $80 million. If somebody came to the floor today and said guess what, the IRS is doing a $30 to $80 million poll to find out whether or not the American taxpayers think their taxes are fair enough, if the level of taxes is fair or not, among other questions, I think it would be a 100-to-nothing vote to say the IRS cannot do this. 
So I hope those who are on the Appropriations Committee, when they are working in these conferences, will make it clear that the Senate doesn't support asking the IRS to do a $30 to $80 million poll which will increase the caseload and work of the IRS itself, which will cause taxpayers to say, `My gosh what does this mean?' call the IRS with additional questions, and will cause people to say, `I don't know whether I want to mail this back. I am afraid this might produce some adverse reaction from the IRS itself.' 
This will increase complexity. Those who are proposing this have said that it is real simple, `We will just take it out of customer service, we will take the money out of customer service and it won't cost us anything at all.' Again, can you imagine if somebody came to the floor and said, `Guess what the IRS is doing? They are proposing to spend $30 million up to $80 million out of customer service to do a 14-question poll.' I can't imagine there wouldn't be 100 Senators down here saying we object to the IRS doing it. 
This is a case where the Speaker of the House says he may ask the conference committee to direct the IRS to do this very thing. Mr. President, I hope Members, if we hang around here for another 4 or 5 days--given the word that I got that the House is going to vote on fast track, I guess, tomorrow; we could be here for awhile--every single day we wait, another 130,000 notices go out from the IRS to taxpayers that they owe money, another quarter of a million phone calls are going to come into the IRS, asking the IRS questions. The commonsense recommendations in this piece of legislation are so compelling that only four Members of the House of Representatives voted against it. 
I believe this legislation would pass very quickly here in the Senate. It would set up, in fact, a debate over our tax system and put us in a position to be able to enact many of the things the chairman of the Finance Committee, the distinguished Senator from Delaware, wants to pass. I think it is very difficult to explain to taxpayers back home why we didn't give the Commissioner the legal authority needed to manage his agency in a manner that would enable the voluntary compliance to go up and customer satisfaction to improve as well. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I appreciate very much the comments of the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee, the senior Senator from Delaware. Especially his willingness to hold 3 days of hearings, penetrating what is called the 6103 veil, which allows us to see information that typically is held in secret, in confidence, to protect the taxpayer. These hearings enabled the American people to see abuses that most Americans look at and say: This is objectionable and should not be allowed to continue. 
I would point out, though, that the board question that the chairman raised here, giving the board more authority--the Washington Post editorial cited one of the reasons they wanted more hearings was they thought the legislation that we had given the board too much authority. So my guess is they would write it, if we gave the board more authority--they would write the committee saying: You better give the board more hearings because you still have it wrong. 
We had 12 days of hearings in the hearings that Congressman Portman of Ohio and I conducted. Thousands of interviews with IRS employees, former Commissioner Richardson supports it, former Commissioner Goldman supports the recommendation, former Treasury Secretary Baker, former Treasury Secretary Brady and current Treasury Secretary Rubin--all support the legislation. All have examined it. We have had a full markup in the Ways and Means Committee. This may not go as far as some would like, but given the fact that we handle 200 million tax returns, individual and corporate, every single year, it seems to me reasonable that we begin with this board somewhat cautiously. 
It has significant authority in the development of the strategic plan. It has authority to make advisory recommendations on the budget as well. It can pass judgment on the performance of the Commissioner and make recommendations to the President in regard to the Commissioner's actions. 
We do, in fact, in the amendments that have been agreed to now by 14 members of the Finance Committee, as the chairman indicated, give the taxpayer advocate the independence needed to be a true effective advocate for the taxpayer. Instead of being an employee of the IRS, the advocate would be able to operate more independently than is currently the case, and many of the changes the chairman has indicated that he would like to do I fully support. 
What seems to me to be the most compelling question of all is, do you want the new Commissioner of the IRS to have the authority to hire and fire senior people, to be able to provide positive financial incentives, to be required to disclose what the audit requirements are, to have incentives to be able to go to electronic filing, to have the legal authority to be able to comment on tax complexity? 
All these things are fairly straightforward. I can't imagine anybody saying the IRS Commissioner should not have the authority this legislation gives him to be able to manage the agency. The risks are high, Mr. President, that in this next filing system, given what we have discovered now by penetrating the 6103 veil, there is a good chance we are going to get a decrease in voluntary compliance, with citizens saying it may be a small percentage and, indeed, our commission discovered that it is a relatively small percentage of IRS employees who are abusing the authority and the power that they have. But I can tell you that when the odds are only 4, 5 or 6 percent, that is still pretty good odds if it is your tax return, if it is your life, if it is your future that is at stake. 
We risk a lot by delaying, and the people who are going to pay a price, again, are those 130,000 people who every single day are going to get a letter in the mail saying, you owe additional taxes, and that quarter of a million people who are going to call up every single day to the IRS trying to get a question answered. 
I don't disagree at all with the chairman's identifying some additional things that need to be done, but where we have such broad consensus among Republicans and Democrats, with only four dissenting votes in the House, my guess is in the Senate it would pass nearly unanimously as well once people look at the details of this legislation and see what it would give new Commissioner Rossotti the authority to be able to do. 
Again, I don't know how long we are going to be around here, but this piece of legislation, if it were taken up in the manner I have described, I believe would be passed quickly, would be in conference quickly, get it to the President, get his signature and would set up not just the debate that the distinguished chairman of the committee has identified, but also a debate on tax simplicity and other things that ought to be taken up by this body as well as the House. 
This sets up the debate. It doesn't decrease the opportunity for a debate. It makes it more likely we will have a healthy debate about tax simplicity, about our code and about further changes that need to be made in the IRS in order to make certain that we can close this breathtaking gap that exists today between what the IRS is able to do and what the private sector is able to do for that 85 to 90 percent of the American people who are voluntarily willing to comply to pay their taxes, if they can just get one answer, which is: How big is the bill? How much do I owe? 
It is that question that dictates much of the financial planning that American families are doing, and it is a very difficult question to get answered in the current environment. That question would be made much easier to answer if we would just take this piece of legislation up, enact it and get it on to the President for his signature.  
Mr. NICKLES addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19971107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I appreciate very much what the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma is saying. We have had many conversations. He is cosponsoring the legislation, so I know he wants to get this reform enacted. I believe that when we know we can get something done that will improve the operation of the IRS, we ought to do it. 
Again, I respectfully say, I think this sets up the basis for further action, because it gives the IRS Commissioner the kind of authority that the IRS Commissioner needs to manage the agency. It gives the IRS Commissioner authority to say this is what we think the Code is doing to the taxpayers, this is what it is costing the taxpayers to comply with the Code we have. 
I favor rather aggressive reform of the Code. I certainly wouldn't come to the floor and say I don't think we ought to do it until we reform the Code. There is lots more that can be done with the IRS, no doubt about it. But I don't think we are 
ever going to have a single piece of legislation that does it all. 
For gosh sakes, we just confirmed a new Commissioner and sent him over to run an agency of 115,000 people. Look at the law. The law doesn't give him the authority to manage the agency. 
It doesn't give him the authority to hire and fire senior people. 
It doesn't give him the authority to provide positive financial incentives so the agency can be run in a better fashion. 
It doesn't give him legal authority to move expeditiously to electronic filing. 
It doesn't require the basis of the disclosure of audits. There is a cumbersome Freedom of Information Act process with the IRS. It is especially slow and difficult for citizens who are trying to get information. 
It doesn't require the establishment of some complexity analysis so that we can make a judgment about whether or not what we are doing is going to make it harder for the taxpayers to comply. 
It doesn't require the kind of coordinated oversight that is needed with a public board governing the IRS that will enable us to achieve consensus on a strategic plan. 
All these things are in there. You look at them and say, `I can't be against it.' There likely will be 100 votes for all the things I just described. Why not do it now? It doesn't preclude us from coming back next year and taking further action. All these things I listed will improve benefits to American taxpayers, to those 130,000 every single day who are going to receive in the mail a notice that they owe additional taxes, to a quarter of a million who are going to pick up a phone and make a phone call and try to get an answer to some question they have. 
If you look at the law that is being proposed that was passed by the House by all but four Members, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to look at the law and see, for gosh sakes, that this doesn't prevent us from taking action next year, this doesn't prevent the Finance Committee or any other committee from holding hearings and considering legislation to improve it. 
All this does is it matches with authority the responsibility that the Commissioner has and will enable, unquestionably enable, the customers, the taxpayers of the United States of America to get better service than they are currently getting. They are going to pay a price for delaying. 
The congressional restructuring commission had 12 public hearings, thousands of interviews with private sector individuals. This legislation, by the way, has the endorsement of every provider out there of services to payers, as well as the endorsement of the National Federation of Independent Businesses. 
This piece of legislation has been examined from stem to stern by an awful lot of people who are now embracing and endorsing the legislation and saying that on behalf of the American taxpayers, this piece of legislation, this change in the law for the IRS will make the IRS more efficient and make the taxpayers themselves more competent; that not only are they going to get a fair shake, but get a right answer to the question that they ask. 
I will be down here again tomorrow if we are still around here, and the next day if we are still around here, and however long it takes. We can conference this thing in a day and get it on to the President. I hope Members on the other side will look at this law and begin to ask the question, do we want to change the law this time and come back and address all the other things the distinguished Senators from Delaware and Oklahoma said we ought to be doing? 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I appreciate very much the bipartisan work to come up with a 6-month extension of the highway bill. It is terribly important for all of our States and terribly important that we have some certainty out there. I appreciate the fact that all of us have kept our voices down for the moment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed immediately to H.R. 2676, the IRS Restructuring Act of 1997, just received from the House, that the bill be read a third time, and passed, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I yield to the distinguished Senator from Delaware. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, as long as we are in session, I will come to the floor, and I hope those on the other side of the aisle will look at this bill. The Senate did confirm Charles Rossotti to be the new Commissioner of the IRS. There is a lot in this bill. If you look at it, you would say, my gosh, I'm surprised that we don't already do this. It gives the Commissioner the authority to hire, fire, move people around, and to provide marketplace incentives. It has a public oversight board, as well as increased oversight on our side. It has significant changes in here that give the public more information on the basis of audits. 
I appreciate very much the fine work that Chairman Roth has done in the 3 days of hearings. We took a look at some additional things. But this Commissioner is going to be expected to manage a 110,000-person agency through a very difficult filing season this year, next year, and the year after. 
This bill addresses many, if not most, of the problems that have been identified by your citizens at home. I hope that during the next couple of days--this bill began as bipartisan. Congressman Portman, Representative from Ohio, and I; chief sponsors on this side in the Senate, Senator Grassley, and I--I hope my Republican colleagues will take a look at this bill. There is a lot more that can be done. There is no question about that. But there is also no question that when we give Mr. Rossotti this authority you are going to get a dramatic improvement in the efficiency of the operation of the IRS. Hundreds of collection notices are going to go out every day; over 1 million additional notices for audits; and other contacts the IRS is going to make per month with taxpayers. For every day we wait you are going to have to answer citizens at home. `Why didn't you give the Commissioner the authority? Why didn't you provide the kind of authority needed to be able to manage the agency on behalf of taxpayers?' 
I believe delay will cost taxpayers. They are not going to be happy about this delay. 
Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise in my capacity as vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee to urge passage of the intelligence authorization conference report. The House and Senate both produced good bills this year, they fit together quite well, and the conference committee under Chairman Shelby's leadership worked out a compromise which I recommend to my colleagues. The outcome of the conference favors new technology, focuses on today's and tomorrow's hardest targets, and increases the usefulness of U.S. intelligence to its Government customers and to the public. 
The legislation coming out of conference is not perfect, because it drops a provision which the Senate had strongly favored, the provision guaranteeing the right of public employees to share classified information about wrongdoing directly with the appropriate congressional committee. I will return in a moment to the failure to include this provision, and I will have more to say in the future about the necessity of such a provision. 
Last month, while the conferees were meeting, the CIA was publicly celebrating the 50th anniversary of its creation. I salute its employees and I join President Clinton in praising their generous patriotism, their willingness to take risks for America, and their great professional skill. Their successes during the cold war, be they in space and airborne reconnaissance, human intelligence, covert operations, or intelligence analysis, were key to our eventual victory. In the years since the cold war the people of the CIA have continued to make a huge difference in warning our military, helping our leaders make the right policy choices, and keeping the American people safe. 
It shouldn't be surprising that the CIA is a misunderstood organization, because it is mostly a secret organization. Its employees are secretive about their duties, their budget is secret, their operations are secret. Further, while the CIA's failures, both real and apparent, will probably find their way into the press, the successes will not--and should not. Add the general disinclination these days to think deeply about foreign threats and you see the problem. But it is in the national interest to confront this problem, and to demonstrate to the public the necessity and the necessary uniqueness of the CIA. 
The necessity should be clear. Most countries need an organization, a dedicated service, to collect and analyze information so policymakers can make good decisions and military forces can be warned and prepared. Such a service might also be called upon occasionally to act in a clandestine or covert manner, in a way that the Nation's leaders could plausibly deny. A great nation with global responsibilities requires a highly capable global service. Because the information collection is secret--no reason to use an intelligence service to collect what is publicly available--and because the resulting analysis may also have to be kept secret to protect the secret sources, much of this intelligence service's activity should be secret. The necessity for secrecy seems self-evident, but in a period like present, when the threats to our national life seem remote, it bears repeating. It also bears watching. 
Secrecy, while necessary in intelligence, conflicts with the openness required of government operations in a democracy. The oversight roles performed by an attentive public and alert media, oversight roles which would quickly find wrongdoing in a Government agriculture program, are usually unavailable to probe secret intelligence operations. Congress has to take up the slack. 
For the first 28 years of CIA's existence, Congress's oversight of secret intelligence was benign, distant, and superficial. For the most part, Congress trusted the CIA and the other agencies to do the right thing. But when we ask Government agencies to operate in secret, to take the most serious risks, to conduct operations which the Government will publicly deny, vigorous congressional oversight is required. In creating the Intelligence Committees of the two Houses in the mid-1970's, Congress devised a method for legislative oversight of secret operations which works well and which has excited the curiosity and imitation of many other countries. It is a system which works hard to insure U.S. intelligence activities are conducted in accordance with U.S. law and American values. It protects the right of Americans not to be spied on by their own Government, it protects the taxpayer's dollars spent on intelligence, and it protects the employees of intelligence agencies from having to carry out an operation which has not been approved by the people's representatives. Despite the nostalgic complaints from those who never served under the current oversight system, congressional oversight has made U.S. intelligence much stronger. 
Congressional oversight depends on information. That elementary fact is enshrined in the Lloyd-LaFollette Act of 1912, which makes explicit the right of employees of the executive branch to directly provide information to Congress, and in the more recent Whistleblower Protection Act. Particularly in the murky and potentially lethal world of intelligence, it seems self-evident that an employee who knew of serious wrongdoing might not want to clear with her boss or with her agency's inspector general or even with the Justice Department the fact that she was going to the Intelligence Committee or the Armed Services Committee or another appropriate committee with information about the wrongdoing. 
The administration sees it differently. They state the President's control of national security information is vested in him by the Constitution, specifically by his powers in foreign affairs and as commander in chief, and that the provision in the Senate intelligence bill authorizing employees to bring classified reports directly to Congress violates the Constitution. The administration is also concerned that to weaken the President's control of secret information is to increase the chance of security leaks--even though Congress has a much better record than the executive branch in keeping classified information secure. Since a President has the sole authority to classify any information he wants, it is possible that some future administration could classify a report on sexual harassment or bribery or any topic. Congress will be a supplicant for information identifying wrongdoing, not an authorizer and overseer of Government activity. 
I must stress that the Clinton administration has given no hint it would ever behave in such a fashion; in fact, the intelligence committees get more information from this administration than from any other in our history. In addition to its many classified notifications to the oversight committees, this administration is declassifying data from earlier eras and also recently announced the dollar amount of the total intelligence budget for the last fiscal year. But ours is a government of laws, not individuals, and we must be prepared for more contentious relations between the branches, and less principled administrations, than we have now. 
The Senate provision was, very simply, about Congress' right to Government information and the right of citizens to inform Congress. I am disappointed this provision was removed in conference, but I will join Chairman Shelby in introducing this provision as separate legislation and I am confident we will prevail. The American system of Government depends on it. 
I said congressional oversight has made U.S. intelligence better. It has also made Congress more informed about the intelligence agencies, just as any oversight committee comes to know its agencies well. From my vantage point, these agencies are national treasures, but they have a potentially fatal defect: they are not effectively portraying to the American people the crucial necessity of their work. I know, and my colleagues know, how relevant the intelligence community's work is to America. But the American people, by and large, do not know. The task for the intelligence community is to inform them, to make sure the American people know the role of intelligence in protecting their freedom and their safety. 
A second task is for the intelligence agencies to treat the American people as their customers. In other words, the agencies must put priority and resources on their declassification efforts, they must respond faster to freedom of information requests, and they must use and disseminate open source information the public can use to understand their world better and make better decisions. The days when intelligence was exclusively a secret activity for an elite inside the beltway are over, and if intelligence is to retain its claim on the public's resources and rebuild the public's full respect, they ought to be over. 
Over the past half-century, our leaders and our military used the best intelligence to keep us free and to help us prevail in the global struggle with communism. The CIA and its sister agencies went to the ends of the earth, the depths of space, and the inner reaches of the human personality, to find that intelligence. We all owe them a great debt. But this is a new, and far more open, world. The intelligence authorization bill provides the resources and the direction for success in that new world. But the enthusiastic support of the American people is not something Congress can authorize--if we could, we would authorize some for ourselves. Only the agencies themselves can accept this challenge, and earn the respectful, even admiring and grateful support of the great majority of its 260 million customers. In my view, Director Tenet and his colleagues are up to the challenge. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when Senator Torricelli of New Jersey is finished all time be yielded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, under current law, personal property damage is tax-deductible only to the extent that each loss is more than $100 and the total losses exceed 10 percent of income. Today, I am introducing legislation which would eliminate the 10-percent test for unreimbursed casualty losses resulting from a Presidentially declared disaster that occurs in 1997. 
Just over a week ago, Nebraska was hit by a massive winter storm that dumped up to 20 inches of snow and 2 1/2 inches of rain on our State unusually early in the season. As a result, Nebraskans have suffered massive damages, the extent of which we are only beginning to discover as the process of digging out begins. More than 175,000 lost electrical power, and many of them are still waiting for it to be restored. Thousands still lack phone service. About 85 percent of trees--still heavy with fall leaves--were damaged in Omaha alone. 
Mr. President, changing this tax law won't shovel the snow, or restore all the phone and electrical service. But for the homeowner whose property was damaged by felled trees, or thousands of other Nebraskans who suffered losses in this storm, allowing them to deduct the full amount of those losses will provide a little breathing room as the long process of digging out--and rebuilding--begins. I hope we act on it soon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I was very encouraged to read in this morning's newspaper the majority leader's comments about the agenda for the rest of the session. An agreement has been reached on bringing up campaign finance reform next year. 
On the list of things that the majority leader had was taking action to restructure the Internal Revenue Service. It was a very controversial debate over one proposal that Congressman Portman, Senator Grassley, Congressman Cardin, and I introduced a couple of months ago dealing with a proposed public board of directors. A lot of attention was paid to that. Unfortunately, in the process of paying attention to that, we lost sight and a lot of people lost sight of some of the other things that we are going to legislate on that are terribly important. 
I was pleased to see, since the House has passed it, that the majority leader indicated that is one of the things he is going to try to get done sometime during the rest of the year. There is broad consensus on some of the things which we know will improve the operational efficiency of the Internal Revenue Service. 
Chairman Roth's Finance Committee had 3 days of hearings on a separate set of issues dealing with privacy, dealing with the power of the Internal Revenue Service to demand action on the part of taxpayers. 
These are very important issues, and the chairman has indicated his desire to take up next year the consideration of those issues. I have great respect for Chairman Roth and his desire to bring attention to the Internal Revenue Service. His intent and his sincerity lead to, I believe, the citizens of the United States seeing that change is needed. However, I believe action is needed yet this year in order to give the new IRS Commissioner, Mr. Rossotti, the authority he needs to be able to manage this agency. 
One of the things we found in our restructuring commission when we began in 1995 was that the General Accounting Office disclosed that nearly $4 billion worth of modernization and purchase of computers and software had not produced the desired result and had essentially been wasted. We began our effort in 1995. We held hearings in 1996 and 1997--12 public hearings, thousands of interviews with current employees and taxpayers and professionals that help and assist taxpayers. 
We reached our decision in our restructuring commission that the current law was unacceptable, that it would not allow us to go from where we are today to where citizens need to have us go. 
Today, 85 percent of Americans voluntarily comply with the Tax Code. That is down from 95 percent 30 years ago. The real test is what does the taxpaying citizen think of the existing system? Their confidence is deteriorating rapidly, and it is deteriorating as a consequence of the law. The law makes it impossible for the Commissioner to manage that agency the way we all want the Commissioner to be able to manage the agency. 
We proposed legislation. The legislation has now been passed by the House and has the full support of the President. The President is now calling upon us to take action. As I said, I am hopeful that the majority leader's comments in this morning's paper are an indication that there is still a chance that we can get this done. 
We found in our commission deliberations a number of problems that are addressed in this legislation. 
First, as I said, the Commissioner can't manage the agency. He can't make decisions to fire. He can't make decisions to reward based upon performance. He can't make decisions to reorganize. He can't make decisions to run the Agency. The law doesn't allow it. You can get whoever you want to come in--and I think the President has found an exceptional individual from the private sector who understands technology and who understands how to manage 
an organization--but the law does not give Mr. Rossotti the authority that Mr. Rossotti is going to need to manage the Agency. 
We also found that there is inconsistent oversight both from the executive branch and from the legislative branch. So we propose not only a public board of citizens that would have responsibility for developing a strategic plan, but we also propose to create twice a year a joint hearing of appropriations and authorizers and government operations people to give not just the oversight but give us an opportunity to achieve consensus on what the strategic plan is going to be. Twice a year that would be required in order to achieve consensus and, most importantly, achieve consensus for the purpose of being able to make the right investments in technology, being able to sustain the effort over a period of time to do the improvement of operations that are necessary. 
It is very difficult to operate the IRS with 200 million tax returns a year. We are heading into the filing season right now. It is an unimaginable problem to try to manage this Agency and satisfy all of the various demands and answer all of the various questions that taxpaying customers have as well as being able to go out and enforce the law against a relatively small percentage of people who are not willing to voluntarily comply with the law; not to mention as well the difficult challenge of adjusting the software and rewriting software for the millennium problem that needs to be solved in the next 18 months in order to be prepared on December 1, 1999, for what will occur, which is the computers will no longer recognize 99 as being 1999--a very big problem for a small agency, and an enormous problem for an agency like the IRS that will be in the middle of a filing season, if their computers go down and they are unable to recognize that number. 
So there is an urgency to get this law changed so that this Commissioner can have the authority to manage, the authority that is needed so the Commissioner has the kind of oversight that is needed, and in order to have any chance at all of being able to manage this Agency, to reduce the current problems and avoid future problems as well. 
The legislation provides incentives for electronic filing. We found in our examination of the Internal Revenue Service that there was a 25-percent rate of error in the paperwork. In electronic filing the rate of error was less than 1 percent. Errors mean dollars both to the filers as well as the organization that is being operated. There is a tremendous opportunity for saving money both from standpoint of the taxpayer in what it costs to comply with the code as well as the taxpayer from the standpoint of operating the IRS. 
We believe, and everybody who has looked at it believes, that electronic filing is a tremendous way to save money and satisfy the demand of the customer to close this breathtaking gap that currently exists between what a private sector financial service agency can do and what the IRS can do. All of us understand what an ATM card is. All of us have seen what the private sector has done to reduce the amount of time needed to do a transaction with a financial institution. The IRS has been unable to keep pace with what the private sector is doing, and we think that electronic filing is not only likely to save money but will also increase people's confidence that the IRS is closing the gap between what the private sector is able to do and what they are able to do. 
We have a section in there on taxpayer rights. We do not address the so-called 6103, the privacy issues, that Chairman Roth and Senator Moynihan did with the Finance Committee, but there are a number of things where we are absolutely certain that, if we make some changes, the taxpayer will have increased authority. We give the taxpayer advocate more independence, moving them outside the IRS; it is very difficult to imagine that person doing the job they need to do if, after they criticize the IRS, they then depend on the IRS personnel system in order to be advanced. 
We make some additional changes on the burden of proof. We think having modified it slightly does not produce a situation that will result in a deterioration of our ability to get voluntary compliance or impose a burden upon individuals who are willing to comply in a voluntary fashion. 
We provide as well, Mr. President, some changes that will I think address the problem of a complex Code, not by reforming the Tax Code but by putting the Commissioner at the table and giving the Commissioner the authority to comment either on proposals made by the President or by the Congress as to the cost of compliance and putting in a complexity index that would give us some kind of idea of cost anytime we have some new change we want to make. 
Over and over and over we heard from witnesses coming before the Commission who said to us almost nothing is going to work if Congress continues to make the Code complex. If we continue to add provisions that add to the already estimated $200 billion that the private sector taxpayer pays in order to complete their forms, if we continue to make the Tax Code more and more complicated, it is going to be very difficult to manage the Agency for the purpose of reducing the customer dissatisfaction and increasing the voluntary compliance with the system. 
Mr. President, I am very encouraged, and I hope we are able, in fact--there is now 13 of the 20 members of the Finance Committee who are supportive of this legislation. My guess is it will pass the Senate with a very large number. I have heard very few people raise objections now that we have reached agreement with the administration. I have heard very few people say this legislation would not help an awful lot. There will be 200 or more collections notices a day going out between now and the time that we act, 800,000 notices of either audits or other kinds of requirements sent to the taxpayers every single month. There is an urgency to act on this. 
Are there other things that need to be done? The answer is yes. Will it solve every problem? The answer is no. But it will give the Commission the tools the Commissioner needs to manage the agency. It will change the oversight and make it possible for us to get shared and agreed consensus on where it is we are going to go. It will give the taxpayer more authority and more power than they currently have. And it will enable us to assess whether or not some new tax idea that we have is going to cost us more to implement than we are going to generate in revenue as a result of the change in the Code. 
So I am very encouraged by the majority leader's comments in the paper this morning, and I am hopeful in that bipartisan way, in a big bipartisan way we can pass in the Senate, conference with the House, and send to the President for his signature a change in the law that would give taxpaying citizens increased confidence not only that they are going to get a fair shake but that Government of, for, and by the people works. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19971001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today to ensure that families are not denied the tax relief we promised them under the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 
What we promised under the Taxpayer Relief Act was a child credit to help families raise their kids and an education credit to help make higher education more affordable. As it turns out, the reality may be far different. What we may be doing is throwing middle-class families into the alternative minimum tax [AMT] simply because they take advantage of the new child and education credits. This will happen because under current law, individuals pay the greater of their regular tax owed minus nonrefundable tax credits or the AMT which cannot be reduced by these nonrefundable credits. 
Under current law, the child credit and the education credit won't be allowed under the AMT. As a result, average-sized families with children are more likely to be thrown into the AMT simply by using these credits. Believe me, this is not the place we want to be sending them. 
The bill I am introducing today is identical to one that was introduced last week by Congresswoman Kennelly of Connecticut. By her calculations, in 2002, a full 2 million families will be in the AMT because of the family credit alone. For illustrative purposes, I will give you just one example of the kinds of people who will get hurt: A two-parent family with a gross income of $67,700 and three children, including one in college, would fall into the AMT and lose nearly $1,500 of the $2,500 in combined child and education credits that we promised them. 
The legislation I am introducing today is simple. It would allow taxpayers to take the nonrefundable personal credits--the dependent care credit, the child credit, and the education credit under the AMT. It would also make the standard deduction and the personal exemptions deductible under the AMT. 
As Congresswoman Kennelly has noted, `The AMT was meant to ensure that sophisticated taxpayers couldn't zero out their taxes. It was never intended that your children would throw you into the AMT.' We need to deliver on the family tax relief promises we made in the Taxpayer Relief Act. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19971001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I recently introduced the Highway Safety Priority Act which proposed to make safety a primary consideration in highway investments. 
Traffic accidents are part of a national health epidemic responsible for the loss of 1.2 million preretirement years of life a year; more than is lost to cancer or heart disease. It is the leading cause of death for Americans between the ages of 15 and 24. Last year, more than 41,900 Americans died from this epidemic and more than 3 million suffered serious injury. In Nebraska traffic accidents claimed 293 lives in 1996 up from 254 the year before. Most tragic, is the fact that this epidemic is almost 100 percent preventable. 
To address this problem, the Congress must focus resources where they will do the most good. Throughout America there are two lane, two way roads which expose drivers to an unacceptably high level of risk. These high risk `killer roads' suffer from poor engineering, poor pavement, narrow shoulders and increasing levels of traffic. Because these roads are often in rural areas, feeding into the larger arteries, they are frequently overlooked by State and local roads departments in favor of the larger more modern and inherently safe portions of the National Highway System. 
If we are to be serious about reducing death and accidents on America's roads, we need to pay greater attention to the roads which feed into the National Highway System. The Lincoln Journal Star reported in May that 70 percent of all Nebraska accidents occur on rural roads. 
Today, I introduce legislation which proposes an aggressive efforts to make killer roads safer. This legislation, like the Highway Safety Priority Act was prepared with significant assistance of Dr. Jerry Donaldson, of Advocates for Highway Safety. Dr. Donaldson is one of the Nation's pre-eminent highway safety experts. 
As the Senate prepares to consider the new highway bill, I urge my colleagues to consider and support the Rural Road Safety Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I ask unanimous consent to be able to speak as if in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to speak about bipartisan efforts to reform the Internal Revenue Service because these efforts are being publicly challenged and criticized, I regret to say, inaccurately by the administration. It is perplexing to me personally why this administration would send a message to the American taxpayer that despite what they have been hearing the Internal Revenue Service does not need comprehensive reform. 
During 3 days of hearings of the Senate Finance Committee last week, taxpayers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service testified under oath that the legal power to collect taxes has been and continues to be abused. Combined with 12 days of public hearings held by the congressionally mandated Commission on Restructuring the IRS, which conducted thousands of hours of interviews with IRS investigators, professional preparers, private sector experts, and taxpayers, a clear and convincing conclusion has been reached. The law which creates and governs the actions of the IRS needs to be changed. 
Mr. President, if lawmakers in the Senate and the House consider that hundreds of new collection notices will be sent to taxpayers every working day and that 800,000 monthly contacts in its notices of audit or taxes owed will be made, then there is an urgency for us to act quickly. 
If we can prevent any of the suffering disclosed in these hearings with a change in the law, why would we hesitate to act? 
Of equal importance is the need to increase confidence in this unique Federal agency. More Americans pay taxes than vote. Remember, America's tax system depends upon our voluntary declaration of taxes owed and a patriotic willingness to pay our fair share. If citizens believe there is a chance that voluntary compliance will result in their privacy being violated, their return unfairly audited, or their lives made miserable, all of which we now know is a possibility, then the percentage of citizen participation could fall even further. It is safe to say that the faith of the American people in our ability to govern is linked to the ability of the IRS to function properly. 
The House leadership has declared its intent to pass a new law and to pass a law this year--a law which was created in a bipartisan and bicameral atmosphere--which would solve many of the problems highlighted by the Senate Finance Committee hearings last week. The House intends to enact comprehensive reform, similar to that recommended by the congressionally mandated National Commission on Restructuring the IRS. And the Senate, in my judgment, Mr. President, should do the same. 
As cochair of the commission, along with Congressman Rob Portman of Ohio, I would like to share with my colleagues the problems that were uncovered by our deliberation. To be clear, at no time during these deliberations did Congressman Portman and I resort to bashing the IRS. Indeed, a former Commissioner of the IRS, Peggy Richardson, was an ex officio member of our commission. We gained unprecedented access and a window into the operations of the IRS. We visited service centers, we worked and talked with employees. It is significant to note that our legislation has the endorsement of the National Treasury Employees Union. 
We found that the IRS has a law enforcement mentality, but that the vast majority of its employees perform functions including tracking finances, sending out notices, and assisting taxpayers. 
We find as well the IRS has a general attitude that taxpayers are guilty, even though close to 90 percent of taxpayers are compliant. 
We found that taxpayers have a low opinion of service levels provided by the IRS and do not believe the IRS is trying to help make paying taxes easier. Indeed, in today's USA Today, a poll shows that 70 percent of Americans think that the IRS abuses their power. 
We found that training is not a priority, and employees do not have the skills of their private sector counterparts. 
We found that the IRS uses employee evaluation measures that do not encourage employees to provide quality service to taxpayers. 
We found IRS management and governance structure makes strategic planning impossible and has caused a massive failure of the IRS's $3.4 billion computer modernization program. Mr. President, this conclusion has been supported by a GAO report that was issued in 1996. 
We found the IRS computer systems were developed during the 1960's and 1970's and lacked the capability to provide taxpayers with quality service. 
We found wasteful inefficiencies and high error rates existing in the processing of paper forms. 
We found that the Treasury Department has done little to correct IRS management problems, and lacks the expertise and continuity to do so effectively. In fact, Treasury officials were noticeably absent at last week's Finance Committee hearings. 
We found as well the congressional oversight of the IRS is scattered and can send confusing signals to the IRS that can be manipulated by the IRS to avoid accountability. Indeed, witness after witness came before our committee, knowledgeable witnesses who assist taxpayers in preparing their returns, and laid equal blame upon the executive and the legislative branches. 
We found as well that complexity and constant changing of the Tax Code is a major obstacle that intensifies all of these problems. 
The administration continues to criticize the legislation introduced by Senator Grassley and I on this floor on the 23d of July, and Congressman Portman and Congressman Cardin in the House in the same week. They continue to criticize our legislation unfairly and, most important, inaccurately. In order to perhaps clear up some of the differences between what we are proposing and what the administration would like to see happen, I would like to review the complaints made against the IRS in last week's hearings and show how the law as proposed by Senator Grassley and I, the IRS Restructuring Reform Act of 1997, would change things. 
Criticism No. 1. Citizens have no power in a dispute with the IRS. Our law would create in law new protections for the taxpayer and new rights if a taxpayer dispute arises. At a minimum, the law should, one, expand authority of the taxpayer advocate to issue taxpayer assistance orders; two, to expand the authority of the taxpayer to recover costs and fees by permitting awards relating back to the 30-day notice letter, allowing awards for pro bono services, increasing net worth limitations, and allowing recovery for IRS negligence up to $100,000; third, require the IRS to provide more information to taxpayers, such as making public their general audit selection criteria and explaining certain rights to taxpayers before audits such as joint and several liability and extensions of statutes of limitations. 
The question of fairness of audits can be solved by requiring the IRS to provide general audit selection criteria. Remarkably, the only information we currently have about how the IRS audits comes from a researcher who used the Freedom of Information Act to force the IRS to surrender some data. There simply is no good reason for us not to write a law requiring an annual disclosure. 
Fourth, force the IRS to resolve its dispute with the National Archives in which allegations have been made that historical records have been mishandled or destroyed. 
Fifth, help taxpayers pay their fair share of taxes by establishing national and local allowances for offers-in-compromise; eliminating the interest differential; dropping tolling penalties during installment agreements; and providing safe harbors to qualify for installment agreements. 
Sixth, open low-income taxpayer clinics with matching grants up to $100,000 a year for up to 3 years to help low-income taxpayers and especially small business. 
No. 7, expand the jurisdiction of the tax court to allow more taxpayers to take advantage of the simplified small case procedures. 
And, eighth, require a study of the administration of penalties, especially penalties that will fall heavier on married filers and the burden of proof needed before penalties are determined valid. 
These are eight suggested changes in the law that would give taxpayers more power, more authority. They are not made as a consequence of receiving a number of complaints. They are made as a consequence of thoughtful deliberation between Republicans and Democrats, trying to figure out what the payers themselves say need to be done. We examined it in a bipartisan and bicameral fashion with the full cooperation and participation of former Commissioner Richardson who says today that she would support these provisions. These changes in the law, all by themselves, would solve many of the problems that we heard before the Senate Finance Committee last week. And all by themselves, would go a long ways toward increasing citizen confidence that they are going to be able to get a fair deal from the IRS. 
The administration's bill, which they introduced--had Members introduce for them--has no taxpayer protections or rights provisions. I want to underline that. One of the things the administration has been saying is we like the Portman-Kerrey bill but we don't like the board. We like everything in it. If they like everything in it, the question is why don't they have taxpayer protections or rights provisions? I believe the reason is they introduced their bill, had their bill introduced, just so they could say we want to change the IRS as well. 
A second criticism we heard was that the IRS is isolated from the taxpayer. Anybody who does not think the IRS is isolated has not examined the structure. It is buried in Treasury. The Secretary of Treasury is in charge of oversight, not just of the IRS, the 115,000-person organization, but the Secretary of the Treasury obviously has lots of other things on his mind--whoever the Secretary is. It does not have to be Secretary Rubin--any Secretary faced this. They also have to manage Secret Service, Customs, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Keeping the operational side inside Treasury buried as it is, makes it difficult to achieve accountability. 
This, in my judgment, may be the most common thread that ran through the decisions, the criticisms that we heard, not only last week but for the entire last year. 
Tax Code complexity, outdated technology, a primitive management structure contributed to the problem, but these factors alone did not explain a bureaucratic culture that produced allegations of taxpayers being hounded based on their vulnerability; confidential returns being snooped; or records being altered to reflect the IRS's point of view. Those flaws are the symptom of an agency isolated from the customers it is supposed to be serving. The IRS is languishing under a suffocating bureaucracy from which it is getting inadequate oversight and far too little input from the taxpayer. 
Our new law would do a number of things. First, it would create a Presidentially appointed citizens oversight board that would oversee the operation of the IRS. The members of this board, for example, could have expertise in the operation of large service organizations or in other areas. What we tried to do was give the President maximum flexibility, so he could make selection of individuals who had expertise--the Secretary of Treasury is on the board, the head of the National Treasury Employees Union is on the board--because we believe that there 
are going to be significant personnel decisions that have to be made. We believe it is important to have a representative on the board, making those decisions and getting support as a consequence. 
The board would be responsible for oversight, approval of strategic plans and review of operational plans. The President would appoint board members for 5-year terms and would have the authority to remove any of these members at will. 
The board would approve an advisory budget of IRS, prepared in conjunction with the commissioner. It would have no access to taxpayer return information and it would not participate in law enforcement. This is what has drawn the most heat from the administration, and leads me to suspect that their principal concern is relinquishing any authority to a board that would have any authority over the decisions that are being made. 
They have misrepresented and said that the board is going to be composed of chief executive officers--not mentioned in the law. They have suggested of these board members, as recently as yesterday, there were going to be significant conflicts of interest. If that be the case, how could the Secretary of Treasury sit on the board? How could anybody from the private sector sit on any advisory board that we have in all of Government? We understand conflicts of interest and we deal with them. It is not accurate to say that we cannot protect ourselves, especially when this statute says that this board will have no access to taxpayer return information and it will not participate in law enforcement. 
Equally important, and oftentimes lost in the debate over this board, is that our law would create a requirement for two annual joint hearings of tax writing, appropriating, and oversight committees. It would also expand the duties and reporting requirements of the joint committee on taxation. 
The Finance Committee hearings last week were the first oversight hearings in 21 years. It is the inconsistent oversight that we are trying to deal with, with this provision. But, in addition, we heard from individual after individual, the restructuring commission did, that one of the most important things you have to do before you make a technology decision or other allocation decision, you have to get a shared agreement on what the mission is going to be. Having a new oversight board for the IRS, working with a new oversight committee on the congressional side, would give us the possibility of achieving this common and shared mission. 
In our deliberations, we found that congressional oversight of the IRS had no coordination. This provision will allow the IRS Citizens Oversight Board and Congress to reach agreement on regulations, goals, and objectives. It will enable the authorization of new initiatives after IRS satisfies rigorous contingencies to assure financial accountability, subject, of course, as always to the approval of the appropriating committees. 
For example, decisions about the design and purchase of computer systems will be made after the legislative and executive branches have agreed on a plan. The strategy is to collect taxes owed from those Americans unwilling to pay their fair share, must also be jointly approved in order to survive congressional funding cycles. 
Finally, we must provide funding for the century date change. As all of us have looked at that particular problem know, if you think the IRS computer system is a mess now, it could get a heck of a lot worse if the date change problem is not fixed and not fixed at 100 percent. 
The administration proposal would codify the status quo. Treasury proposes the creation of an IRS management board made up of 20 Government officials, mainly political appointees from departments including OMB, OPM, and the Vice President's office. I urge colleagues who are concerned about this board that Senator Grassley, Congressman Portman and Congressman Cardin and I are proposing, who are critical of that, compare it to what the administration is proposing. To repeat, the administration wants a 20-person board composed entirely of Government officials, political appointees, including people from OMB, OPM, and the Vice President's office. 
They also propose an advisory board of citizens. For decades there has been a commissioner's advisory group to the IRS, and we were told that it was ineffectual and the bureaucracy ignored their advice. 
The reason they ignored their advice, Mr. President, is an advisory board has no authority, no power, and no one, to my knowledge, pays a lot of attention to advisory boards that lack either authority or power. 
Fourteen expert witnesses testified before the Ways and Means Committee on September 16. All but two or three testified in favor of the bill that Congressmen Portman and Cardin introduced, and all testified against the administration's proposal. 
I would like to read the names of some of the experts who testified: Eugene Steuerle, senior fellow of the Urban Institute, against; Donald F. Kettl, director, Brookings Institution, against; Robert B. Stobaugh, Harvard Business School, against; Phillip Mann, section of taxation, American Bar Association, against. And on and on, Mr. President. 
The administration's proposal has been opposed by all the people that they cite, or some of the people they cite at least as reasons not to support the newly constructed oversight board that Senator Grassley and I have proposed. Again, I have regrettably reached the conclusion that this really is not about what is going to work as it is about making certain that no power and authority is relinquished by the Secretary of the Treasury over the 115,000 people who work for the IRS. 
The third criticism that we heard not only last week, but all year long, was that the IRS management structure does not allow for the removal of bad apples. Our law, Mr. President, would create a 5-year term for the IRS Commissioner. In current form, our legislation says that the board appoints the Commissioner. I would be willing to consider having the President appoint the Commissioner with formal input from the board and continuing to allow the board to evaluate and recommend removal for cause. 
This law would give this Commissioner increased legal authority to manage the IRS. Consistent with merit system principles, veterans preferences and established labor/management rules, the Commission would be given a new rating system to hire qualified applicants and flexibility to hire a senior team of managers. 
Remarkably, the IRS Commissioner has very little flexibility in managing this agency, and one of the difficulties that he or she is going to have, regardless of who they have, in managing with zero tolerance is the sort of things we saw last week: the absence of the power and authority to be able to manage as I think most of us in Congress and most of the American taxpaying citizens would like to see done. 
The administration's proposal would create a 5-year term for the Commissioner. That is true; that is the same as ours. But it stops there. It would not have board members with 5-year terms to provide the needed continuity and support to the Commissioner. All the political appointees could come and go in the same year. 
One of the biggest problems we have with the IRS is lack of continuity, particularly continuity of management oversight. One of the defects of a board being all political appointees inside the Government is that they tend to turn over more. It is this turnover that makes it difficult for us to get the kind of continuity this agency demands. 
The fourth criticism we have heard is it is difficult to file a tax return and there is a breathtaking gap between the service taxpayers get from the IRS and the service they get in the private sector. 
Our new law would create goals and due dates for electronic filing. At the heart of comprehensive reform must be a vision of an IRS that operates in the new paradigm of electronic commerce. One of the most telling comparisons made by taxpayers who appeared before us was the comparison given between an ATM card that is provided by their commercial banks and the lack of similar conveniences from the IRS. Potential savings to the taxpayers are large: The error rate for electronic filers was less than 1 percent, compared with 20 percent for a paper file. While we will never have a paperless IRS, Congress must change the law to provide incentives and assistance to a new IRS which gives its customers services comparable to the private sector. 
The administration proposal would allow the IRS to spend more money on marketing electronic filing, but would not include any specific goals or requirements for the IRS to take immediate action to increase electronic filing. 
The fifth criticism we heard is that Congress has created a monster of a Tax Code that is too complex to administer. Under our new law, Mr. President, we would create a process for evaluating the cost to the taxpayer of tax law complexity by giving the Commissioner, for the first time, an advisory role when new tax laws are being considered; requiring, as well, a tax complexity analysis during legislative deliberations; increasing Federal-State cooperation; and requiring the Joint Committee on Taxation to study feasibility of estimating taxpayers' compliance burdens. 
We just made the Social Security Administration independent. The President's nominee was confirmed by the Senate. When the President's nominee came before the Senate Finance Committee, we were able to ask the question: If you reach a conclusion that the President doesn't like or that we don't like up here, are you going to be able to express that conclusion publicly? And the answer is yes. That is what comes with independence. 
We need an IRS Commissioner that is able to, while we are debating taxes, say, `Great idea, Mr. President, I saw everybody gave you a standing ovation.' `Great speech, Senator Blowhard, I see you got a standing ovation as well, but guess what it is going to cost the taxpayer to comply with your idea? They may give you a standing ovation, but if it becomes law, this is what it is going to create as far as the taxpayer is concerned.' 
Under the current law, the IRS Commissioner will never come before the American people and make that kind of statement. Under our law, they would be required to do so. The complexity of the Code may require comprehensive reform of our tax law, but in the meantime, why not give the Commissioner authority to advise Congress of the potential problems of our ideas, and why not require a tax complexity analysis? At least we could then evaluate these potential new costs before proceeding. The administration's proposal would not do anything to encourage simplification of the tax law, although it would allow the IRS to enter into cooperative agreements with State tax administrators. 
Mr. President, let me add a closing note about the administration's handling of this bill. Honest people can have honest disagreements. For that reason, I tried to be restrained in my criticism of the administration's proposal. But the ongoing public relations battle they are waging requires me to respond. 
First, my broad critique is that the administration's proposal is both timid and hollow. We started our proposal with the belief that the law needed to be changed. Laws, Mr. President, have teeth. They must be enforced. They make a difference. The administration's proposal is more a set of suggestions than a set of laws--false substitutes. They become dentures rather than teeth. 
Second, the administration has leveled its strongest complaints against our proposal for an oversight board comprised of taxpayers. We made this proposal because we thought the IRS was culturally isolated from the taxpayer, because we believe the IRS lacked the independence from the bureaucracy it needs to fix the problems, and because we believe the agency needs input from outside its own headquarters. 
I assume the administration agrees with this observation, because it, too, has proposed an oversight board. The problem with the administration's board is that its members would come from the same bureaucracies that created the problem we heard about last week. Taxpayers would have no input except through an advisory panel, and the board they propose would have little real power. In fact, all 14 expert witnesses, as I said earlier, testifying before the Ways and Means Committee said they do not support the administration's IRS governance proposals. 
The administration contends our oversight board would consist of self-interested CEO's. This is quite simply, and quite directly, false, and the administration knows it. They have read our bill. They know what is in it. And they continue to describe it inaccurately in order to get people to presume they should oppose it. 
Our proposal is for a nine-member board, two of whom will be the Secretary of the Treasury and a representative of Treasury employees. The other seven could be anyone who the President appoints and the Senate confirms--anyone. A small business owner in Lincoln, NE, can be on this board, as a taxpayer advocate from anywhere in America. `CEO' does not appear in our bill. I do not know where the administration has concocted this ruse, unless they fear that CEO's are who this administration will appoint. 
The administration also claims a board run by taxpayers is a recipe for conflicts of interest. At root, this is an argument that the vast majority of taxpayers who do not work for the Government lack the necessary moral rectitude to participate in reforming the Government that belongs to them, and I strongly disagree. Americans who work and pay taxes in the private sector contribute to Government all the time. In fact, one of them is the Secretary of the Treasury today. He ran one of Wall Street's most elite firms. I presume that whatever mechanism has been sufficient to protect him against conflicts of interest would also be sufficient to guard against conflicts of interest by members of this board. 
Finally, it seems to me the administration is intent, perhaps determined, on preserving the basic structure of the status quo. They wish to strand the IRS in the labyrinth that is the Treasury Department's bureaucracy and is the same bureaucracy that has failed to run the IRS in a manner that gives citizens confidence. 
The problems at the IRS are not this administration's fault alone, but I cannot help but observe that if the Treasury Department had done a great job running the IRS the last 5 years, 
I might be more convinced that they ought to keep running it. But the simple truth is, they haven't. Perhaps the best summary of the administration's proposal is this: If you like the service you get from the IRS now, you'll love the administration's IRS protection bill. 
Having responded in kind, Mr. President, I still hope the administration will start participating in this debate constructively. I still believe we can work out our differences, which are not great, as long as they begin to tell the truth about Senator Grassley's and my plan. 
Regardless, Congress needs to proceed as quickly as possible to enact changes in the law which will result in the best practices being applied to the operations of the IRS. Americans want an IRS that can quickly answer the question, How much do I owe; an IRS that is customer oriented to those payers willing to voluntarily comply as is a commercial bank to its customers; an IRS that knows it had better be right when it comes after a taxpayer for collection, otherwise it will pay for wrongly accusing a taxpayer of being delinquent. 
In the interest of those Americans who voluntarily comply but who struggle with a complicated code, a confusing service policy, incompatible information systems, and the fear that they could be the next in line for harassment, the time has come for Congress to act. 
Mr. President, it is time the IRS starts working for the American taxpayer. To further delay is to ask millions to suffer unnecessarily. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, one of the challenges of the 21st century is already upon us. It is commonly known as the year 2000 computer problem or the millennium bug. At issue is a programming technique that could lead to the malfunction of computer systems worldwide on January 1, 2000. It is essential that government, business, and personal computer users take adequate steps to fix this problem in advance of December 31, 1999, to ensure that cyberspace enters the next millennium without a hitch. 
During the early years of computing, computer storage space was incredibly expensive. Storage space that costs only 10 cents per megabyte today, cost $36 per megabyte in 1972. In an effort to reduce storage costs, computer programmers commonly programmed date information using only two digits to indicate the year. For example, 1999 would be programmed as 99. This clever space saving trick saved computer users millions of dollars and became industry practice because programmers believed that by the time the year 2000 arrived any code they were working on would be obsolete and out of service. Unfortunately, the conventional wisdom was wrong and many computer systems still use these programs. Computers and computer software programmed in this fashion may misinterpret the year 2000 as 1900. This electronic confusion could lead to serious malfunction or collapse of computers and computer networks around the world. 
Date information plays a significant role in almost all computer applications developed over the last 30 years. The year 2000 problem has many practical implications from the relatively benign to the very serious. Credit cards may be read as invalid, traffic lights may not operate, 99 years of bank records could be destroyed or the Nation's air traffic control systems could fail. The list of possible failures is nearly endless and can be found in systems used by the government, the business community, and personal computer users worldwide. Personal computers are less susceptible to the problem and in most cases can be quickly fixed. However, business and government leaders should be working night and day to ensure that the computer systems the country depends on are reprogrammed to correctly recognize the date in time for the arrival of New Year's Day 2000. 
The time and financial commitment necessary to replace the problematic date code is stunning. The Gartner Group estimates that costs could exceed $600 billion. Newsweek magazine points out that this sum is enough to fund a year's worth of education costs, preschool through graduate school. Correcting the problem is technically simple, however in order to find the date information the entire program must be manually scanned line for line. Often, the programs are written in the outdated COBAL programming language and finding programmers skilled in older languages to solve the problem is very difficult because the demand for their services is sky rocketing. After a competent technician is hired and they have analyzed the code and made the necessary changes, the programs must go through a time consuming testing phase. In sum, it is a very complex task and it is quickly becoming too late to begin the reprogramming process. 
Many companies and government offices have already taken steps to avert this problem and are well on their way to making their systems year 2000 compliant. Unfortunately, many others have not addressed the problem and the time needed to analyze, modify, and test the code used by these entities is quickly slipping away. I am very concerned that further delays will leave the government and many private companies unprepared to carry out normal transactions in the early days of the next century. In order to address this problem, I have joined Senator Moynihan as a cosponsor of S. 22. S. 22 would create a commission that would be required to report to the 
President, by July 3, 1997, with proposals for new procedures or regulations to address the year 2000 computer problem for systems of Federal, State, and local governments and would make recommendations for funding levels that might be needed to address this problem. 
In addition I am introducing a bill today that would instruct the Federal Communications Commission to initiate a proceeding to determine the integrity of the telecommunications networks as the year 2000 arrives. It also requires the National Institute of Standards and Technology to review the risks to personal computers and requires the Department of Transportation to assure that transportation safety is not compromised. 
Inconvenience can be tolerated, but every effort must be taken to assure that the health and safety of humans and the security and integrity of networks and data are not compromised by what we know to be a significant weakness in our computer networks and software. 
In conclusion, I am also very concerned by reports that small and midsize businesses are experiencing difficulty in determining if their computer systems are year 2000 compliant because some third-party systems vendors are not forthcoming with information about their products. An already difficult task is further complicated by uncooperative third party vendors who fail to help these companies understand how the year 2000 problem could affect their businesses. These companies have a responsibility to provide their customers with the information they need to make their systems year 2000 compliant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I wish to inquire of my colleague from Washington State, Senator Gorton, chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, on the funding status of health facility construction projects within the Indian Health Service that are in the design and engineering phase. Prior to the 1998 appropriations process, the Congress had funded about two-thirds of the design and engineering work that is necessary prior to begin construction of the new Winnebago Hospital. This hospital, now over 70 years old, serves the Indian people in northeast Nebraska and northwest Iowa. The Indian Health Service has indicated that another $650,000 will be needed to complete the design phase. Does Senator Gorton share my understanding of this situation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank Senator Gorton for bringing this matter to the attention of the Senate. It is an incredible slip on the part of the IHS to have neglected to request these needed funds. It appears that in previous years the IHS seriously underestimated the amount of funding that would be required to complete the design phase of this facility. This is why it is so puzzling that there was no request for additional funding in this budget year. Every delay in funding means increased project costs. My question to Senator Gorton and to Ranking Member Byrd is whether it is still possible for the Congress to find some funds in this appropriations measure to be sure these projects stay on track? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am very pleased that my colleagues are as concerned as I am about meeting the health needs of our native American people. As I mentioned earlier, the existing IHS facility at Winnebago is over 70 years old and I would venture to comment that there are probably not very many full-service hospitals in this country serving non-Indians that have reached that not-so-venerable age. It is a shame and the shame rests mostly with the failure of the United States to fulfill its obligations to this country's first Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am deeply concerned about the passage of the Gorton amendment today. This amendment, which gives approximately $12 billion directly to local school districts in the form of a block grant, threatens to undermine some of the most valuable educational programs in existence. 
I am a strong supporter of creative school reform, and I believe in getting rid of programs that do not work. But this amendment is an attack on programs that do work. I have worked with these programs firsthand, and I know they work. Through my extensive involvement in Nebraska with early-childhood programs such as Head Start and school-to-work programs such as Careers 2000, I have seen effective programs in action. 
Many of us in Congress have worked hard over the years to help build and sustain programs such as vocational education, education technology, Goals 2000, adult literacy, and safe and drug-free schools. As a result, millions of students have benefited from the opportunity to improve their achievement levels and enhance their skills portfolios. With the concerted effort of teachers, school administrators, parents, State governments, and Congress, we have been able to ensure that these opportunities remain available to all students, regardless of their particular school district. Under the Gorton amendment, only the lucky would benefit. For example, under this provision, money that once would have been designated for technological training in an inner-city high school could be used instead to build a new basketball court if local administrators saw fit. As we move toward the 21st century, the demand for technological skills in the marketplace is increasing rapidly. Therefore, it is crucial that all students have the skills necessary to compete for jobs once they leave school. 
In bypassing the State entirely and giving funds directly to local school districts, the Gorton amendment is analagous to amputating the whole head in order to cure a headache. In doing so, it harms the very people it claims to help, America's children. Federal taxpayers deserve to know that a sufficient portion of their tax dollars is being used to support effective educational programs. State governments are equipped to make sure this happens. 
Mr. President, I voted for passage of this bill today because, for the most part, it represents a good bipartisan effort to ensure the well-being of American citizens. But because I believe strongly that we must continue the work of education reform in an effective and measurable way, I will strongly oppose the bill if it comes back from conference with this provision intact. I will not stand by and watch American children suffer the consequences of poor legislation. 
I move to table the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I share the interest of my colleague from Georgia in enhancing food safety not only for children but for all consumers. I note that several provisions in my colleague's amendment appear to be related to the types of research efforts that are undertaken by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Based on those ongoing efforts, I suggest that the Secretary of Health and Human Services should consult and coordinate with the Secretary of Agriculture in carrying out the provisions of this amendment. I ask my colleague from Georgia if this is his expectation as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank my colleague from Georgia for both his interest in ensuring and improving the safety of our food and for agreeing that the two Departments should work together in implementing the provisions of his amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I just rise to offer my strong support for Joe Bataillon, a man who I have known for a number of years, and the Chair does as well. He served in the Judge Advocate Corps. He has been a lawyer in Omaha. He has gotten high marks from anybody who has interviewed him, on both sides of the aisle. The judges like him. He is a crucial appointment. I appreciate very much the majority leader scheduling this vote. I encourage my colleagues to vote for him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, there is a national health epidemic in America that does not receive the attention it deserves. This epidemic is responsible for the loss of 1.2 million pre-retirement years of life a year; more than is lost to cancer or heart disease. It is the leading cause of death for Americans between the ages of 15 and 24. Last year, more than 41,900 Americans died from this epidemic and more than 3 million suffered serious injury. In Nebraska alone, the epidemic claimed 293 lives in 1996 up from 254 the year before. The only good news has been that in Nebraska, during the first 6 months of this year, the death rate has slowed slightly. Most tragic, is the fact that this epidemic is almost 100 percent preventable. 
This epidemic I am talking about is death and injuries related to driving. While America has made significant progress in reducing traffic accident rates, deaths, and injuries have trended upward in the 1990's. 
Traffic accidents impose extraordinary costs on our health care system. About $14 billion a year in health care costs are attributable to traffic accidents. Taxpayers bear $11.4 billion of that cost. In terms of lost productivity, property damage and health care costs, these accidents extracted $150 billion out of the economy for the last year that statistics are available. 
The most important point is that traffic accidents are almost completely preventable. The smallest actions of a driver can make the difference between life and death. One lapse in judgment, one moment of inattention can end in tragedy. As drivers, too often, we take for granted the immense power and responsibility we possess when behind the wheel. As public officials we need to be constantly attentive to the need to make our transportation system safer. 
The Congress is working on legislation to reauthorize the Nation's basic highway law. It is one of the most important bills the Senate will consider. I strongly believe that we should use this opportunity to commit ourselves to enhancing safety on America's highways and byways. In that spirit, I introduce the Highway Safety Priority Act. 
This legislation systematically makes clear that safety is a priority in highway construction and maintenance programs. It sends a strong message to Federal, State, and local transportation planners that they should focus on enhancing safety. 
I encourage my colleagues to study and support the Highway Safety Priority Act which I introduce today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970904</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I believe that in order to achieve a goal, we must set the goal, commit the necessary resources to reaching the goal, and establish a method for measuring our progress toward that goal. Voluntary national testing would enable us to reach our goal of raising the achievement levels of America's children. 
I oppose the Coats Amendment because it deprives parents, school administrators, teachers, and students of the information needed to continue the work of constructive education reform. Funding for the development, planning, implementation, and administration of voluntary national testing for individual students in mathematics and reading is important for several reasons. Requiring a Federal statute would impede cooperative efforts to ensure that children in every State have the necessary knowledge and skills to be competitive in today's highly mobile and globally conscious society. 
Put simply, we need voluntary testing because we cannot ascertain where we are going if we do not know where we are. 
Parents need to know how their child's educational achievement level in reading and mathematics compares with that of other children nationwide. Because families are relocating with increasing frequency these days, children need to feel confident that they can perform at a consistent level of achievement even though they may change school districts. These tests would empower parents by providing them with the same information that Members of Congress receive from National Assessment of Educational Progress. Parents deserve to know this information so that they can make the best decisions regarding their child's well-being. Also, there is considerable public support for national testing. A recent Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll showed that 67 percent of Americans favored using standardized national tests to measure the academic achievement of students. 
Furthermore, there is a demand for the tests among teachers, principals, State school officials, and school boards. States and school districts with over 20 percent of fourth- and eighth-graders in the Nation have committed to using the tests. Let me stress that committing to voluntary national testing does not mean committing to a national curriculum. Local education authorities will determine how to use the results. The tests simply give them the tools to do their jobs better. 
Mr. President, we in Congress should be doing all that we possibly can to ensure that America's children have the very best opportunity to excel in a technologically advanced 21st century. But we have to know where our children stand so that we can move forward. Research has shown that high academic standards generate high academic performance. Our children deserve no less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I share Senator Hollings' concern that the provisions in the reconciliation bill on the duopoly and newspaper-TV cross ownership rules which affect television broadcast license ownership violate the Byrd rule. 
The duopoly rule limits the number of television stations a single person can own in a market and the newspaper/broadcast cross ownership rule makes it difficult for newspapers to own a television station in the same market where it publishes a paper to assure that there is not a monopoly on information. 
The conference provisions violate the Byrd rule because they make substantive changes in policy which have no budgetary effect. 
At a time when the Congress and the American people are concerned about the growing concentration in the broadcast industry, this is not the time or place to consider these changes. 
The Congress ordered the Federal Communications Commission to review the duopoly rule in 1996. The budget agreement should not pre-empt that review. 
I join my colleagues in observing that a point of order would lie on the broadcast provisions of this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I support this tax bill as a way to give working families tax relief and continue our economic growth. 
I'm delighted that the tax cuts for working families in this agreement were made more progressive by Democrats. 
I support estate tax relief targeted at family farms and small businesses as well as a phase-up in the self-employed health deduction to 100 percent. 
And I am pleased this agreement left out attempts by the other body to raise taxes on ethanol and make it too easy for employers to reclassify their employees as independent contractors. I would have been hard-pressed to support this agreement had the language on independent contractors survived knowing that having this provision in law would have had significant and harmful effects on the health and financial well-being of American workers. Consider that under current law, only 2 percent of independent contractors have health and retirement benefits, while 50 percent of private employees have those benefits--adopting the language proposed by the other body would surely have had harmful health and financial consequences for the American worker. 
Mr. President, I am pleased that a number of savings and investment incentives like expanded IRA's and education IRA's are included in this agreement. These provisions are good for what they are. However, I fear that the people who most need to generate wealth for their families--middle- and lower-income people--will have the toughest time taking advantage of these provisions. That is why I am so sorely disappointed that the conferees chose not to include a robust form of KidSave in their final agreement. Indeed, given the option I would go further than KidSave by allowing taxpayers to keep a portion of their payroll taxes in personal savings. 
And I support the emphasis on education contained in this bill although I am not convinced the money we will spend on some of these initiatives is the most efficient or effective way to make sure more kids have access to higher education. 
Mr. President, in many ways voting for this bill is a close call for me. Much of what was good in the Senate Finance bill has been thrown overboard. And that bill, while complex, pales in comparison to the complexity of this bill. 
Still, I believe this bill will provide tax relief that working families need. I am especially pleased with the improvements Democrats secured to make this bill more progressive and in making this bill reach more working families. I'm also pleased by the emphasis on education in this agreement, if not by the details of that emphasis. 
So, Mr. President, while I intend to vote for this tax package, I am decidedly unenthusiastic about what we have not done in this tax package and in this balanced budget package overall: we have not taken the first steps toward long-term entitlement reform that recognizes the seismic impact the retirement of the Baby Boom generation will have on the budget, both in terms of its fiscal balance, the solvency of the programs that comprise our retirement safety net and the balance between mandatory and discretionary spending. 
Specifically, I am disappointed in two aspects of the tax bill. 
First, I am disappointed that the bill does not address what I believe is the most pressing challenge families face in a global economy: the need to build wealth. 
Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to take a step back from the rhetoric on this issue and consider the fact that increased income--which is the object of these tax cuts--and increased wealth are very different things, and they are particularly different today because, in my analysis, the global economy is devaluing one--income--while enhancing the value of the other: wealth. 
Let me start with a set of definitions: Income is the regular inflow of resources on which we depend to pay our bills and live our lives. Wealth is the ownership of assets that gain in value. 
Anyone who's played the old board game Monopoly knows this difference. Most 10-year-old children who have played this game will tell you that you don't win by going around and around the board, collecting $200 every time you pass Go.' You win by carving out some of that income to buy properties that grow in value. It seems to me, Mr. President, that focusing on working families' income--which is certainly important--while ignoring whether they have wealth is like trapping them in a game of Monopoly in which all we care about is sending them around and around the board, passing Go' and collecting $200, while ignoring the fact that they don't have enough income left over to build a stake of ownership and get ahead. 
The difference may be best illustrated by the recent stock market boom and, just as important, who has benefited from it. Let me open with the simple proposition that those who own wealth in the stock market own more than a few shares in a mutual fund--they own a piece of our economy. They own a stake in it. When the economy succeeds, they succeed. And what they own--capital, and a stake of ownership in the means of production--is the asset that this economy is rewarding. 
Families need a stake of ownership, Mr. President, because I believe it is the principal factor that will determine whether the global economy works for them--because it rewards ownership of capital, the scarce factor of production that is in wide demand all over the globe--or against them, because the expanding global labor pool means those who earn their income exclusively from work are facing more and more competition that is bidding the value of their services down. 
Wealth is also important in a global economy because it provides the security--for rainy days, for retirement--that a global economy requires. I do not believe that ownership of the means of production and ownership of a stake in our economy should be limited to the privileged few. I want every American to have access to it. 
I must say that therein lies my ambivalence toward the capital gains and estate tax provisions of this bill. I supported both, but I note for my colleagues' consideration that the estate tax only impacts 2 percent of Americans who die each year. The other 98 percent do not have estates worth $600,000. I'd be willing to bet that a lot people in this country have only a fuzzy notion of what a capital gain is because they do not own capital. And I fear that we may have gone too far in rewarding people who generate income from capital to the detriment of those who generate income from getting up at 6 every morning and putting in an 8 or 10 hour day. 
And while I supported both of 
these provisions, I deeply regret that this budget does not address the ability of the other 98 percent of Americans to build estates and ownership of capital. 
Even as the importance of wealth is growing, the gap in who owns it and who does not is growing too. 
The question, Mr. President, is: Where does wealth come from and why do working families not have it? The answer is that wealth is built by saving and investing over a long period of time, which requires disposable income that many families lack. 
I had hoped we would target tax relief toward freeing the disposable income that working families need. I have proposed doing so by cutting the biggest tax working families face: the payroll tax. I call this tax `The Forgotten Tax.' I had lobbyists knocking on my door to discuss every arcana of tax law, but not once did someone knock on my door to talk about this tax. I hope we'll take a close look at it and talk about how this tax can be cut to give the working families on whom it imposes its greatest burden a way to generate wealth through personal savings. 
We missed another important opportunity to help families build wealth. KidSave, a term that is being bandied about to describe policies that are foreign to its purpose, would have converted the $500-per-child tax credit from one that increases consumption by $10 a week to one that allowed families to build a stake of ownership in the economy, which, as I have said, I believe is more important than increasing their income, as much as I support that goal. I believe this one provision, which was dropped, could have laid down the savings infrastructure that our children will need in the 21st century to build a stake of ownership in the economy. 
I am pleased that this bill would expand IRA's and allow parents to open higher education IRA for their children which would become IRAs in the child's name at age 30 if the child did not use them for higher education. However, the savings initiatives contained in this bill are voluntary and for most people they will probably not be `sweet' enough get the people who most need to build wealth, to do so. 
Second, I also fear this bill will come to be known as the Tax Complication Act of 1997. This tax bill is going to be a bear to administer and a bear for taxpayers to understand. As the Washington Post noted earlier this week, Conceivably an individual reaching retirement age could have an IRA with deductible contributions, nondeductible contributions, one rolled over from an employer plan and one of the new backloaded ones. As the Post dryly notes, calculating the required withdrawals and taxes would be `an adventure.' 
As I am sure everyone in this chamber knows, not only are there different income phaseouts for the front and back-loaded IRA's in this bill, there is still yet another phaseout for rollovers from front to back loaded IRAs. 
I don't mean to single out any one provision for its complexity factor. Here is yet another: Your capital gains rate. Just what is the rate under this bill you might ask? That seems like a pretty straightforward question but not so fast. 
Assets held for zero to twelve months will be taxed under this bill at ordinary income rates--a top rate of 39.6 in other words. Assets held for 12-18 months and sold will be taxed at the current maximum capital gains rate of 28 percent. Assets held for eighteen months or more will get either a 20 percent, or ten percent rate. Assets disposed of between May 7 and July 29 and held for 12 months will get a 20 percent rate. 
But wait, there is more. We have a new 5 year holding period rate. People paying taxes at the 15 percent rate would get an 8 percent capital gains rate on assets held for 5 years beginning now. People above the 15 percent rate would have to wait until the year 2001 to get the 5 year holding period going, could even take old assets and bring them up to current value without disposing of them, hold them for 5 years, and get an 18 percent rate in the year 2006. 
Oh, and if you own commercial real estate, the rules are different as well. Under this bill, the depreciated portion of your real estate is taxed at 25 percent, the amount above that amount is at 20. 
If you are working, but not wealthy, and you have more than two children, you'll probably need to spend some of your child credit hiring someone to figure out your child credit. Under this bill, someone with one or two kids would get the child credit before their earned income tax credit. But if you have three or more kids, you would have the option of figuring your tax two ways: either take the credit before the EITC or take the credit up to your employee FICA and income taxes minus your EITC. At this point, as I understand it, you are no longer even receiving a child credit. If you get the child credit this way, you are getting a supplemental child credit, not, presumably and actual child credit. 
Just one more example. The education initiatives. Believe me, in order to figure them out, you are going to need a degree in accounting before you are able to do your own taxes. Under this agreement, the HOPE credit gives you a 100 percent credit up to $1,000 the first 2 years, and 50 percent of $1,000 the second 2 years for `eligible expenses.' That is on a per student basis and it begins in January of 1998. In addition, this agreement has a lifetime learning component which provides a 20 percent credit for up to $5,000 in expenses on a per family basis which in 2002 becomes a 20 percent credit against $10,000. That provision begins on July 1, 1998. The HOPE credit is indexed in 2001, the lifetime learning piece is not. Income limits for both are indexed in 2001. 
Having expressed those concerns, I do not want to underestimate the magnitude of the achievement. Continuing the job of balancing the budget will advance the goal of economic growth. The expanded reach of the $500-per-child tax credit means real relief for real families. The great American institution called the family farm will have a greater opportunity to stay in families. I repeat: I vote yes for what we have done here, for what we achieved, but with regret for the challenges we chose not to tackle. We have thrown a first down pass, and the cheers from the crowd are deserved. But a long distance remains to the goal line: a federal budget that can cope with the demographic challenges we face while still preserving our priorities as Americans.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am pleased to announce my intention to introduce the IRS Reform and Restructuring Act of 1997 with the senior Senator from Iowa, Senator Grassley, who also was a day-to-day participant in this effort and gave it a great deal of energy and expertise. As one can tell from listening to him, he has offered a tremendous amount of enthusiasm and orientation to the taxpayers concerned, the customers themselves, as well as the need to open the IRS up. He cited the example of Shelly Davis, who brought to the attention of the public, the taxpayers, the significant problems the IRS is having and found that, as her reward for doing that, she lost her job. I very much appreciate Senator Grassley's leadership. I look forward to working with him on the Finance Committee to try to get this piece of legislation heard and marked up and, hopefully, on to final passage yet this year. 
This legislation reflects the recommendations of the National Commission on Restructuring the Internal Revenue Service. My co-sponsor, Senator Grassley, and I have been the Senate members of the National Commission for the last year, and have been part of the most unprecedented review of a government agency that an independent commission has ever conducted. Senator Grassley and I will shortly introduce legislation based on this commission's work. The goal of this legislation is to make the IRS work for the American taxpayer. 
This legislation is so important because there are twice as many people who pay taxes as vote. Citizens' faith that their government can be fair and efficient is dependent on a well functioning IRS. The days of the old-fashioned tax collector are over--the core of this legislation is based on a vision for a new IRS. We believe, in today's world, the job of the IRS is to operate as an efficient financial management organization. It is a myth that the bulk of the Federal revenue is generated through heavy enforcement. While the IRS must maintain a strong enforcement presence, its core and the core of the Federal revenue stream lie in a revamped, modern organization that can assist taxpayers promptly and efficiently, track account information, and send out clear notices. There is a breathtaking gap between the service levels of the IRS and those of the private sector. 
The IRS has a 20-percent error rate for processing paper returns and expends an incredible amount of resources and focus to correct these errors. It captures only 40 percent of the data from returns and is still drowning in a sea of paper. It is typically 18 months before a return can be matched against 1099s. A private sector business that took on average 18 months to send someone a bill, certainly wouldn't stay in business very long. 
This legislation offers both a realistic goal for those who will take charge of the agency and a credible plan for reaching that goal. 
We spent the last year studying the problems and solutions for the IRS. 
Clearly, our access to the IRS's operations and employees was unprecedented. We spent 12 days in public hearings, interviewed 300 IRS employees in field offices, and interviewed over 500 current and former officials from the IRS, the Treasury Department, congressional committees that oversee the IRS, and other IRS experts. We also commissioned consulting reports and internal reviews of IRS management, governance, work force, compliance, and customer service. Finally, we heard directly from citizens through town meetings and surveys. During all of this work, we continually asked the question: How can we make the IRS serve the American people? 
There are many visible problems at the IRS that should be noted by all colleagues, especially those who take the view that perhaps we don't need to change. All of these visible problems dictate that we act and that we change the law. 
The IRS has a law enforcement mentality, but the vast majority of its employees perform service functions including tracking finances, sending out notices, and assisting taxpayers. 
In addition, the IRS has the general attitude that taxpayers are guilty, even though 90 percent of taxpayers are compliant. 
Taxpayers also have a low opinion of service levels provided by the IRS and do not believe the IRS is trying to help make paying taxes easier. 
Next, training is not a priority, and employees do not have the skills of their private sector counterparts. 
Fifth, the IRS uses employee evaluation measures that do not encourage employees to provide quality service to taxpayers. 
Next, the IRS management and governance structure makes strategic planning impossible and has caused a massive failure of the IRS' $3.4 billion computer modernization program. 
Further, IRS computer systems were developed during the 1960's and 1970's and lack the capability to provide taxpayers with quality service. 
Wasteful inefficiencies and high error rates exist in the processing of paper forms. 
The Treasury Department has basically left the IRS to its own devices, leaving a vacuum in executive branch oversight of the agency. 
Congressional oversight of IRS is scattered and can send confusing signals to IRS that can be manipulated by the IRS to avoid accountability. 
Last, complexity and constant changing of the tax code is a major obstacle that intensifies all of these problems. 
We heard from witnesses who estimate that the American taxpayers spend nearly $200 billion a year just to comply with the Tax Code. Complexity is a problem, not only in giving customer service, but as far as a drain on the U.S. economy. 
A key problem identified by the Commission was a lack of a coherent, accountable structure to implement a long-term vision and goals. At the top levels of the IRS and at Treasury there are murky lines of accountability, a lack of necessary expertise to operate in the new information age, and no people of authority with significant tenure to get the job done. The officials at the Treasury Department have expertise in 
tax law, but do not have the expertise in areas of customer service, technology, and management to oversee the IRS. Worse, they are not around long enough to ensure focus on multi-year projects like the tax system modernization [TSM] or changing the culture of the agency to be more responsive to taxpayers. 
Additionally, Treasury does not coordinate its own oversight: The Commissioner of the IRS must deal with various assistant secretaries on budget, operations, computers, and others. At the end of the day, the IRS Commissioner really reports to the Deputy Secretary who also manages 11 other agencies--not to mention the economy. The recently retired Commissioner of the IRS, Margaret Richardson, told us that she reported to three different Deputy Secretarys during her 4-year tenure as IRS Commissioner. Aware of these glaring problems, the Restructuring Commission began developing ideas for a new governance structure. Our criteria for success were: First, clear accountability, second, expertise in running a modern customer-oriented organization, and third, continuity. 
To provide for accountability, expertise, and continuity the legislation we will introduce will include: 
First, an Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board, appointed by the President for staggered 5-year terms. The board will: Approve the mission, objectives, and annual strategic plans of the IRS; oversee the IRS management; have significant tenure to force change throughout the organization; and have unique public and private sector expertise in managing large service organizations. 
Second, the Commissioner will be appointed for a 5-year term, so he or she will be around long enough to achieve real change. 
Third, the Commissioner will be given greater flexibility to hire or fire his or her own team of executives, who will bring new expertise into the IRS. While the board will keep an eye on long-range strategic issues, the Commissioner will run the organization and be given greater authority to do so. 
Fourth, congressional oversight will be coordinated among the authorizing committees, the appropriating committees, and the Government oversight committees. Our legislation codifies coordinated oversight, stating that committee leaders, majority and minority, meet regularly to ensure that the IRS receives clear guidance from Congress, and that Congress is given the proper information to oversee the IRS. 
This legislation draws clear lines of accountability between tax policy and tax administration, leaving all tax policy matters to the Secretary of the Treasury. The legislation makes the Secretary of the Treasury a member of this new board, recognizing the link between tax policy and tax administration. Additionally, the Secretary of the Treasury would continue to have final say over the IRS budget before it is sent to Congress. Under this legislation, the board would send Congress a copy of their budget at the same time they send it to the Secretary, giving Congress an independent view of how much money to appropriate. In short, our new structure will bring heightened accountability to the IRS and tax administration. 
Mr. President, the American people know that the status quo is no longer tolerable and that the IRS needs fixing; $3.4 billion was wasted on a failed modernization project. IRS operations are antiquated and outdated, and taxpayers--close to 90 percent of whom voluntarily pay their taxes--are generally, and unfairly, treated as if they are guilty of something when they contact the IRS. 
The IRS's problems are rooted in the lack of strategic vision and focus, measures that do not encourage employees to treat taxpayers well, operational units that do not communicate with each other, and a systemic lack of expertise and continuity in management and governance. The legislation Senator Grassley and I will introduce will put the IRS on the road to recovery with a reasoned, comprehensive approach to fixing these problems. When implemented into law, I am confident the result will be: Restored public confidence in the IRS; increased focus on customer service; cohesive oversight and governance; efficiency gains in IRS operations; and innovative compliance and customer service programs. 
We hope for expedited action on our legislation so that the American people have the IRS they expect and deserve. Our work to restructure the IRS will go a long way toward restoring taxpayers' faith not only in our tax system, but in our Government, as well. 
Mr. President, again, I congratulate and applaud and appreciate the dedicated service and expertise and leadership of the distinguished Senator from Iowa, Senator Grassley.  
Mr. FEINGOLD addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I yield myself such time from the Democratic side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I come to the floor and offer what I would call my reluctant support for this budget agreement. 
Today, the subject at hand is the spending portion of this bill. And I wish it was completely different, I must say, than what is in here. 
Yesterday, I spent most of the day in mourning for the loss of the provisions relating to structural changes in Medicare that would have added $8 billion to the HI hospitalization trust fund by imposing very reasonable and progressive change in the premium--it would have added $40 billion a year in spending relief in the year 2030 by accommodating this tremendous change in the baby-boom generation between 2010 and 2030--and other provisions. I spent the day grieving those. I have overcome my grief, and I am prepared to support this because I believe it does balance the budget by the year 2002. I believe it finishes the job that we started in 1990 and 1993. I voted for both of those bills, and I find myself compelled once again to come and vote for a bill that I am not altogether pleased with. 
In this morning's New York Times there was an op-ed piece written by William Safire talking about an age-old problem in the West where cattlemen, because they had an interest in keeping the range open, and sheepherders, because they had an interest in keeping the range fenced in, were at constant odds and warring with one another. Their animals had different needs. They, as the guardians of those animals, went to war in order to protect the needs of those animals. 
It was not until just recently that the people who manage these range animals have come together. They came together as a consequence of a common enemy, in this case, a rather pesky weed called leafy spurge that has roots that can go down as deep as 150 feet, impossible to, by any reasonable estimate, get rid of once it is in the grassland. It will spread and take over the entire prairie. 
So the cattlemen are out there saying the leafy spurge will eliminate the grass. `I'll have nothing for my cattle to graze on. What am I going to do? No herbicide is effective. No burning is effective. Nothing seems to work.' Until one day they discover that what works is to put a few hundred sheep out on the grassland. As a consequence of the sheep's appetite for the leafy spurge, the sheep eliminates the weed, and thus is joined a battle between the cattlemen and the sheepherders. Suddenly they come together as a consequence of the common enemy. 
I am impressed that Republicans and Democrats have come together with this bill to address a common enemy--the deficit. I wish that the 1993 bill had been bipartisan. I believe that if we had a few more spending cuts in 1993, that might have been possible. We missed an opportunity. It was bipartisan in 1990. It was not in 1993. And it is today. I am impressed with it. 
I believe the Nation wants us to be bipartisan. I believe the Nation makes our greatest progress when we set aside not only our partisan differences, but we are able to find a common opponent, in this case, the deficit, a common objective, and we say that we are willing to risk a bit--in some cases, risk it all--for the larger goal. 
I must say, after having made that observation, and to be specific, praising the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator Domenici, the ranking Democrat, Senator Lautenberg, and on our Finance Committee, Senator Roth of Delaware, Senator Moynihan of New York, they have worked hard to say we have a common enemy--in this case, the deficit. 
We see the connection between deficit reduction and jobs. We believe that jobs, and good jobs, can solve almost any problem that we have. And thus, we are willing to join forces against a common enemy. 
I am reluctant to become enormously enthusiastic about this, as I say, because I do not believe it is asking of Americans the sort of tough decisions and choices that would enable us to say that we are tasking the American people to do something that is truly great. 
We will balance the budget. It is true, we are reforming Medicare to give seniors more choice. I think the Federal Employee Health Benefit provisions in this bill will have long-lasting impact, give seniors more comfort as they make a choice to buy alternative care. The provisions for increased coverage for children, the provisions having to do with welfare reform, all these are good provisions 
and deserve attention. 
We have, in addition, a lot of provisions--and I thank all four of the Members who have been involved with this for their assistance in making sure that rural America has an adequate reimbursement rate under managed care, that we are able to take advantage of managed care and see increased penetration in rural America. I appreciate, as well, the change to increase budget enforcement to tighten some of the loopholes that were in law. 
There are a lot of things in this bill, in short, that are good. It does, it seems to me, represent a successful compromise between Republicans and Democrats, and we have produced a piece of legislation that all of us, or most of us, anyway, are going to be able to come down and be enthusiastic about. 
There are four things, Mr. President, that I would like to discuss which I would put in the category of unfinished business. First is entitlements. I appreciate that there is a commission in this bill. I believe it is 20 months that they have. I can save them a lot of time. We had a bipartisan entitlement commission, Senator Danforth and I. The distinguished occupant of the chair was on that commission as well. 
There are a limited number of choices that one can make. There are roughly 10 or 15 choices you can make. They are all ugly. They are all difficult. And they all accommodate a demographic problem, not a problem caused by secular humanists or by Phyllis Schlafly or Ronald Reagan or George McGovern. This is not an ideological problem. It is a problem of birthrates during the period of time 1945 to 1965, and the birthrates following that. It is called the baby-boom generation. 
Seventy-seven million Americans will begin to retire in 2010. And what we attempted to do, with what I consider to be a relatively modest change in the law with eligibility age and means testing and a copayment on home health care, was to accommodate that large generation of people. The sooner you do it, the better. You do not do them any favors by saying, we will do a commission for 2 years and perhaps do something in 1999. Then you have a Presidential campaign going. You will probably have to wait until 2001. The longer you wait, the harder the choices are. 
As I said, the choices are fairly limited. If you do not like moving the eligibility age, if you do not like doing some means testing, the only thing you can hope to do is get some increases in the revenue stream, proposing to increase taxes or increase the premium. If that is your choice, make it now, because the longer you wait, the more likely it is that the people you are trying to help are going to pay a lot more. They are going to pay a bigger price. They have not been warned. 
We missed an opportunity, and I am hopeful that by surfacing this in the debate and getting strong support, bipartisan support here in the Senate, we can keep these issues alive. 
In addition to the long-term problem of entitlements is another problem with entitlements inside of our budget. Yes, it is true, we will have taken the final step to balance the budget with this bill, although I note parenthetically that one of the curious things about this particular proposal is we are going to balance the budget by rather substantially increasing spending in some areas and lowering taxes in others. It is an exciting proposition. We are going to balance the budget, it is true, but the budget has another big problem, and that is the growing percent of that budget that goes for mandatory programs. 
Many of my colleagues have come down to give great, impassioned speeches about why we should not do all of these things. But the question that needs to be asked in a very calm environment is, what are you going to do about these numbers? 
In this budget agreement, the amount of money we allocate for mandatory, plus interest, will go from entitlements, plus interest, the mandatory portion from about 66 percent, as I understand it--I haven't seen the final numbers--to about 70 percent in 2002. The Senator from New Mexico is shaking his head, but it does unquestionably increase. I do not know if it goes to 70 percent, but it increases, and it continues to increase. And it will increase even more when the baby boomers retire. It is not a flat number. 
The head of the Congressional Budget Office, June O'Neill, prepared a report some time ago that shows how the cost of these programs continues to go up as a percent of our overall budget, and they are squeezing out our capacity to keep our defenses strong, our capacity to invest in education or infrastructure, or research, and all the other sorts of things that are being done in the other part of the budget. One of the reasons it was made easier to do our appropriation this year is, we put a little more money in the appropriated accounts in this fiscal year than you are going to see in the outyears. 
So I alert Members that see the appropriations bills sailing through this year and are wondering why, there is more money this year than there will be next year and the year after that and the year after that. In years 4 and 5, we will have very tough decisions to make in discretionary spending--far tougher than I believe people realize. Thus, there is the second problem of the growing cost of entitlements inside of the budget. It sets up tough choices. It doesn't set up easy choices. It sets up very difficult choices that we have to make. 
The second big area for me is, I must say, with the economy growing the way it is--and one of the great pieces of news for me in this budget debate is that as a result of the growth in the economy, I think there are very few people left that don't understand that, in addition to defending the Nation as the first order of business, whatever we do with our taxes, regulatory policy, and spending policy, we do need to ask ourselves: will this create jobs? Because if the economy is growing, it is producing jobs, and there is a demand for labor as a consequence of a growing economy. Lots of things get solved in a hurry. Not only does the Treasury have lots of revenue that makes our job easier, but the gap between rich and poor narrows, the number of people on welfare is reduced. A lot of problems we have get solved quickly if our economy is growing. If we recall from the recession of 1991, the problems are made a lot worse if you have the opposite in place. 
So this growth we have out there in the economy is exciting. My view is that this is the time when we need to be investing in that public infrastructure--research, the transportation base, education, and all those things that will produce increased productivity and increased economic growth sometime out in the future. We may not get an immediate benefit from it, but we will benefit somewhere out in the future. It connects with this entitlement problem. For my friends on this side of the aisle who love to get up and get fired up and tell me why we can't do anything about entitlements, the question occurs: If you don't want to do that, Senator, where are you going to get the money to make these public investments? 
I haven't heard many people that are enthusiastic about a tax increase. I have heard them being enthusiastic about going in the other direction. The only way you can find the resources to invest in the long-term growth of this country is by containing and controlling the pace of growth of entitlements. It is a question of whether or not we are going to endow the future, or are we going to convert the Federal Government into an ATM machine, entitling the present solving of the problems of me, me, me, now, now, now, but not solving the problems of future generations. 
The third issue I speak of today is health coverage. I am of the opinion that the additional $24 billion that is in this particular budget is going to cover a lot fewer people than leading advocates predict. I don't believe that it is going to be a terribly efficient way to increase coverage. Again, I don't think you are going to be able to get the kind of increased coverage that is necessary, unless you come to grips with the rising costs of these mandated programs. For all the terrible things that were forecast and said about the proposal to add a $5 fee for home health, to add a means-tested and an income-related premium on Part B and increase the eligibility age, you thought we were not spending any money at all on Medicare. 
No account in our budget grows as fast as Medicare. It will go up, on average, $24.5 billion per year for 10 years. Nothing grows that fast. We are allocating more and more of our gross domestic product into Medicare and other entitlements. Now, I am prepared to do more for low-income seniors, and help people who are in serious trouble out there, having a tough time paying the bills. But the choice that we have to make, not only when it comes to investing in our future, but also being able to provide additional coverage, is between one group of Americans and another, or allocating $24.5 billion of additional money for children over 5 years and $24.5 billion per year for 37 million people over the age of 65. 
Now, I think that is the kind of debate we need to have on this floor. It is a tough debate, and it involves telling the American people and, very often, giving them the facts. And the facts may be painful and difficult for us to face, but they are the facts. I, for one, as I said, am skeptical that $24 billion over 5 years is going to result in the kind of increased coverage projected for children. I must say again that I think 
the only way we are honestly going to be able to increase the coverage for Americans is to get after entitlements. There is a question of the legitimacy not only of the means test, but we must ask ourselves fundamental questions about requiring an eligibility test on age, another program based upon poverty, the veterans' programs, saying if you get blown up in a war, we have a good program for you. The final one, of course, is the income tax deduction. 
The fourth problem that I think this country faces, which is not in this bill, but it will be taken up in the tax bill and I will talk about it later, but I think it's a big problem. We have a window into the problem of looking at the estate tax issue, and that is the difficulty Americans are having generating wealth. I will talk about it at greater length when we get on the tax bill. But income and wealth are not the same thing. It is not uncommon to pick up a newspaper and hear a story talking about this tax bill does this or that for the wealthy, and what they are talking about is income. They are not the same thing. I can have a half a million dollars a year in income and have no wealth, just as I can have $20,000 in income a year and if I save a little bit, I can get wealth. The estate tax debate is focused on about 2 percent of Americans who have estates at $600,000 or over. I believe estate tax relief is reasonable. I support doing that in the tax bill. But there are 98 percent of the American people that do not have wealth in excess of $600,000. It would not take much of a change in the Social Security program to enable somebody in the work force, indeed from the moment they were born, to have a savings account that enables them to say that when it comes time for me to retire, as I look forward to growing old, I know that in addition to some kind of an income transfer I am also going to have the opportunity to have security as a result of wealth. I think wealth distribution, identified as a problem repeatedly, cannot be solved by simply transferring income. It can only be solved by establishing that we are going to try to help working Americans acquire the wealth and use the principal retirement program, Social Security, that we have in place to get that done. 
Mr. President, I close by saying that I intend to vote `yes' on this bill, and I intend to vote `yes' on the tax relief bill that follows. I wish it had done considerably more. I have great praise and great appreciation for the work done by the chairman of the Budget Committee, by the ranking Democrat, the chairman of the Finance Committee and the ranking Democrat on that committee as well. They set the tone of bipartisanship, which must be set if you are going to deal with these controversial issues, if we are going to be able to go after the common enemy, not just of deficit spending but other tempting, irresponsible things that might produce a round of applause, but might not be good for the United States of America.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19970730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first of all, I say that the man who taught me about entitlements is the distinguished Senator from New Mexico. I recall coming to the floor, I believe it was on a budget resolution that the distinguished Senator from New Mexico and the now-departed Senator from Georgia, Senator Nunn, when they had the famous Nunn-Domenici amendment that controlled the growth of entitlements. The first time he proposed it, I voted against it. I listened to the opponents of it and said, `That makes sense to me; this is not a good amendment, so I will vote no.' 
Then I started looking at the facts, and I was very uncomfortable to have to conclude that I voted wrong. The next time the Senator brought it up, I voted for it and I became interested in this issue as a result of both you and Senator Nunn and your elaborations and your education that you did 3 or 4 years ago. 
The point that I am trying to make, which I am afraid is sometimes lost, is that the longer you wait, the harder the choice is. This is not a problem that you can avoid forever. The more time you let expire, the more difficult the choice is--that is, on Medicare. The same is true on the budget item when it comes to Social Security. We have people under the age of 40 who will be beneficiaries out in the future, 26 and 27 years from now, under current law, for whom we have to say, are we going to be able to keep the promise that's on the table? We have to say no. Social Security Commissioner designate Shirley Chater, in 1996, when asked about it, said, `You can expect Social Security to have to be reduced by 30 or 40 percent in benefits, unless some change occurs.' 
Well, there is a presumption that those of us who proposed altering these programs today are proposing cuts. But the truth is, if you do nothing, that is what is going to happen; only the cut isn't going to occur to a future beneficiary, it will occur to a current beneficiary. Long after the time has passed when you can plan and make adjustments, suddenly the Congress is going to pop up and say, `Sorry, folks, we have to cut the programs big time,' in order to be able, as the Senator said, to save either the fiscal health or the program itself. 
So my fear is that we missed an opportunity when the distinguished Senators from New Mexico and Georgia were down here. I recall people coming in the one year and pulling off veterans first, and once the floodgates were open, it was `Katie bar the door,' everybody got down here and got exempt and there was nothing left. There was no group that is entitled to payment left, and they were all exempted and there was no real reform that occurred. 
So I am not going to give up on the issue. I am not going to stop talking about the need for these long-term changes. But I am just saying to the American people, especially those who understand the importance of Medicare and these entitlement programs, who consider it a victory that the conferees were unable--and I know the Senator from New Mexico fought for these things, but the conferees were unable to hold these provisions. There are many people who are advocates of these programs that consider that a victory. 
It is not a victory. It weakens the program long term. And some beneficiary out in the future is not going to thank us for this action. Maybe it gains a few votes in elections. I doubt it. I believe the American people once they hear the facts of the matter will be persuaded. 
Anyway, it is a much longer answer. I know the Senator from Texas is not very appreciative of the fact that the Senator caused me to talk longer than I intended to. 
But I want to underscore in closing that I do appreciate the fact that the Senator from New Mexico, Senator Nunn, and others led on this thing. It probably torments the Senator now to see his student come back here speaking in this fashion. 
I just close by saying that I am prepared to vote for this agreement on the balanced budget. I believe that is good for the economy. I wish and hope that we are able in a bipartisan spirit to do much more, if not this year sometime relatively soon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19970730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I support the Dorgan point of order against the provisions in the reconciliation bill which manipulate the universal service support system to create a book-keeping gimmick which is disguised to look like deficit reduction. 
Universal service support is the complex system of intercompany payments between phone companies designed to ensure that telephone rates are reasonable and affordable. The universal service support system assures that phone rates and services are comparable in rural and urban areas. This system of payments and shared costs does not touch the U.S. Treasury. 
For the first time, the reconciliation conference agreement would manipulate the universal service support system for budgetary gains. This is a terrible precedent which if abused will drive up phone rates, especially for rural Americans. 
The idea of universal service is profound. It is one of the most fundamental principles of telecommunications law and economics. The concept was introduced in the original Communications Act of 1934 which promised `to make available to all Americans a rapid, efficient, nationwide and world-wide wire and radio communications service * * *' 
From 1934 to 1996, regulation and monopoly were the primary means of ensuring telephone services to all Americans. In 1996, the Congress embraced the idea that competition would best deliver telecommunications services to all Americans at affordable rates. 
The Congress also recognized that there were some markets which competitive companies would not serve and some areas where costs are so high that rates would drive citizens off of the phone network. In those markets, universal service support would keep rates affordable and comparable to urban areas. 
The principle of universal service is that all Americans should have modern, efficient, and affordable communications services available to them regardless of where they live. 
Universal service support is not a subsidy, and it is not a tax. It is a shared cost of a national telecommunications network. 
What makes the American phone network valuable is that almost anyone can be reached. Affordable phone service is not just important to the citizens of Valentine, NE or Regent, ND, it is of value to the citizens who live in New York, Chicago, and other urban areas who need to reach Americans in all 50 states. 
The basic bargain of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 was that the gates of competition would open, provided all telecommunications carriers contribute to the support of universal service. Under the act, support would be sufficient, predictable, and the burdens would be shared in a nondiscriminatory manner. 
To assure that all Americans shared in the benefits of the information revolution, the Congress also adopted the Snowe-Rockefeller-Exon-Kerrey amendment which provided for discounts to schools, libraries, and rural health care facilities. The bottom line was that no American would be left behind. 
The precedent that the reconciliation conferees have set is dangerous. It threatens to undermine the promise of sufficient and predictable support for universal service. It does so to gain a smoke and mirrors bookkeeping advantage in the budget. 
If the universal service support system is manipulated for this purpose, consumers will lose. 
The very system which assures affordability should not be jeopardized by an attempt to avoid the real choices necessary to produce a balanced budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I am pleased to note that Senate appropriators have restored $10.5 million to the Telecommunications Information Infrastructure Assistance Program [TIIAP]. TIIAP is a highly competitive, merit-based, grant program that provides seed money for innovative, practical technology projects across the United States. 
TIIAP grants help our communities utilize the information technologies that play an increasingly important role in the world economy. Without access to advanced telecommunications services that deliver education, healthcare, social services, and news, individuals and sometimes entire communities are relegated to second-class economic status. Rural and low income regions that already face difficult economic hurdles are pushed even farther behind because they lack the resources to join the information revolution. The Federal assistance provided by TIIAP has already helped many of these areas transition into the information economy. 
In my home State of Nebraska, TIIAP has helped the city of Crete purchase computers to build an access center where adults are taught computer skills and are given assistance to apply those skills to new jobs. Through the Nebraska Network for Children and Families, a TIIAP grant provides funding for the Ideas Network. The Ideas Network is an interactive place where Nebraska families and professionals involved in the human services system may find information, dialog opportunities, education resources, advocacy information, and supportive relationships. Specifically, this valuable network is devoted to Nebraska's foster families, subsidized adoptive families, families of children with special needs, and human service professionals. 
TIIAP is a matching grant program. Since 1994, $79 million in Federal grant funds generated investment of $133 million of local funds. Underfunding this productive program would have been a tremendous mistake. Without the seed money provided by TIIAP, valuable community building projects such as the Ideas Network would not be possible. This innovative program is an important component of better education, health care and improved community relations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Dorgan Amendment, which expresses the view of the Senate that the universal service support system which keeps telephone service affordable; should not be turned into a piggy bank which can be raided to produce an illusory deficit reduction. 
The Conferees working on the Reconciliation Conference report are considering legislation which for the first time would manipulate the universal service support system for budgetary gains. This would be a terrible precedent which could drive up phone rates, especially for rural Americans. 
In 1996, the Congress enacted dramatic reform in the laws which govern the organization of America's telecommunications markets. The law was intended to introduce competition into all telecomm markets and preserve universal service. 
The bargain was that competition would replace regulation but that all carriers would share the responsibility for providing universal service. 
The idea of Universal Service is profound. It is one of the most fundamental principles of telecommunications law and economics. The concept was introduced in the original Communications Act of 1934 which promised `to make available to all Americans a rapid, efficient, nationwide and world-wide wire and radio communications service . . .' 
From 1934 to 1996, regulation and monopoly were the primary means of ensuring telephone services to all Americans. In 1996, the Congress embraced the idea that competition would best deliver telecommunications services to all Americans at affordable rates. 
The Congress also recognized that there were some markets which competitive companies would not serve and some areas where costs are so high that rates would drive citizens off of the phone network. In those markets, universal service support would keep comparable services and comparable rates available in rural and urban areas. 
The principle of universal service is that all Americans should have modern, efficient and affordable communications services available to them regardless of where they live. 
In the aftermath of the break-up of AT&T, a system of intercompany payments were established to assure that competition in long distance services did not drive prices for local phone service through the roof, 
especially in rural areas. 
Universal service support is not a subsidy, and it is not a tax. It is a shared cost of a national telecommunications network. 
What makes the American phone network valuable is that almost anyone can be reached. Affordable phone service is not just important to the citizens of rural America, it is of value to the citizens who live in urban areas who need and want to reach Americans in rural areas. 
The basic bargain of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 was that the gates of competition would open, provided all telecommunications carriers contribute to the support of universal service. Under the act, support would be sufficient, predictable, and the burdens would be shared in a nondiscriminatory manner. 
To assure that all Americans shared in the benefits of the information revolution, the Congress also adopted the Snowe-Rockefeller-Exon-Kerrey amendment which provided for discounts to schools, libraries, and rural health care facilities. The bottom line, Mr. President was that no American would be left behind. 
If certain budget negotiators have their way, many Americans will be left behind. 
The precedent that the reconciliation conferees have under consideration is dangerous because it attempts to undermine the promise of sufficient and predictable support for universal service. It does so to gain a mere bookkeeping advantage in the effort to reach a balanced budget by 2002. 
If the universal service support system is manipulated for this purpose, consumers lose. They will get higher rates and lower service. 
By adopting the Dorgan amendment, the Senate can send a clear message to conferees that affordable phone service is important to all Americas. The very system which assures affordability should not be jeopardized by an attempt to avoid the real choices necessary to produce a balanced budget by the year 2002. 
Thank you, Mr. President.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my support for Senate Resolution 98 regarding the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change. Like my colleagues in the Senate, I too am concerned about the effects on the economy of any national or international agreements that the United States enters into. I am particularly concerned with any agreement that may impact the well-being of the American public and the ecological balance of this Nation. The U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change has the potential to do both. 
The United States is scheduled to join with leaders of 160 nations in Kyoto, Japan in December of this year to conclude negotiations on a global climate change treaty. The Kyoto summit is the latest in a series of meetings that have been held since this body ratified the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1992. At Kyoto, the United States and other countries hope to adopt a protocol or legal instrument to deal with the threat of climate change in the post 2000 period. 
It is my belief that the United States must take the leadership role in these negotiations, and steer the course to achieve an equitable, reasoned approach to global climate change mitigation, an approach that seeks inclusion of all countries and that offers a solution to the issue. While I believe the resolution before us will allow such an approach, I want to emphasize to the administration the essential nature of a negotiated framework to which all countries can accede. 
Before I summarize my analysis of the need for global action, let me review the facts. First, global climate change is real. If it were not, 160 countries would not be meeting to address it. However, there are uncertainties about the effects of global climate change--uncertainties relative to the timing, the magnitude, and regional patterns of climate change. We must acknowledge these uncertainties, but acknowledge also that they do not justify inaction. 
As stated recently by Dr. William Nordhaus of Yale University: `The results (of studies) definitely reject inaction; uncertainty alone cannot justify waiting for the revealed truth to act, particularly when the revealed truth, if it ever comes, is probably going to arrive at the point where the effects are irreversible.' 
Second, a leading indicator of climate change is increased emissions of global greenhouse gases. Concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide--the largest component of greenhouse gas emissions--are about 26 percent higher now than they were 100 years ago. Also, globally averaged air temperatures at the Earth's surface have warmed by nearly 1 degree Fahrenheit over the last 100 years. 
Increased emissions of greenhouse gases are virtually entirely due to the activities of man. As a general rule, a country's greenhouse gas emissions rise in concert with increased industrialization. It is no surprise, then, that the United States is the greatest emitter of greenhouse gases, both in terms of gross and per capita emissions. However, the emissions of some developing countries are rapidly escalating, and the emissions of some are expected to surpass that of this country in the first quarter of the next century. 
Which takes me back to my call for U.S. leadership. As the world's industrial leader, the United States should take a clear lead in negotiating a framework for all countries to participate in global climate change abatement. A global approach, and global participation, is requisite to a successful outcome. This approach may require a new framework and a fresh look at timetables and current directions. My understanding of the data is that we have time to do this--we have time to assess where we are and how best to craft equitable policies. But inaction is not appropriate. 
The resolution before us requires commitments of developing countries to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in the same timeframes as developed countries. This may resonate as promoting a policy that discourages the participation of many developing countries. However, the resolution will allow developing countries appropriate flexibilities in commitments to address global climate change abatement. The United States and other developed countries must accord newly developed and developing countries flexibilities and incentives to participate, and these need not create economic disadvantages to the United States or any other developed country. 
I cannot emphasize enough the importance of this point. Without all countries on board, inaction becomes inevitable, because emission reductions achieved by one country will soon be offset by increased emissions from another. 
An equitable approach that encourages commitments by all parties and that offers incentives to developing countries is needed. Market-based solutions to curb emissions will allow continued economic growth with minimal impacts. Developed countries are in a better position to implement emissions-curbing activities and technologies at low cost and impact, and to also transfer these abilities and technologies to developing countries and to aid in their economic advancement in a way that tempers emissions growth. 
While measures to stabilize greenhouse gases at a certain level will inevitably lead to some energy price increases, an international emissions-trading scheme could substantially reduce the potential costs. What is needed, however, is a policy to ensure that incremental costs of reducing or stabilizing emissions are equalized across firms, across sectors, and across countries. This can only occur if we take into account the economies, emissions and abilities of countries to participate, and if we assign actions accordingly and in appropriate timeframes. 
Market mechanisms can reduce cost impacts of emissions reductions agreements. A preferable policy would be to set short- and long-term goals to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions, and to set quantity limits on emissions that are linked to prices. Targets and timetables for emission limitations cannot operate independently of market prices. An international tradeable emissions permits system, with price caps and floors, would have revenue potential and would be cost-efficient. 
Technology transfer and development is an important policy aspect for the abatement of global climate change. The United States and other developing countries have within our current capabilities technologies which can lead to dramatic reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. We can increase the efficiencies of industry, of transportation, of many energy-intensive activities, all with what we already know. By implementing these capabilities and by transferring these technologies to developing countries we can curb emissions significantly. Continued technology development is also necessary. 
Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, we must continue to advance the science related to these policies, and to allow policy changes as the data warrant. 
Mr. President, I conclude my remarks by repeating that I, too, am concerned about any agreements or policies that effect the well being of this country. However, I believe it is in our best interests and that of the world community to approach global climate change in an inclusive, proactive manner that seeks continued economic growth. That approach demands action, and global coalition building, and it is incumbent upon the United States to steer that course.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to offer my support for the pending amendment. I have long been a supporter of the National Endowment for Democracy because I believe that it serves to promote U.S. interests by fostering democracy throughout the world. 
NED was established by Congress in 1983 as a nonprofit, bipartisan organization designed to promote democratic values by encouraging the development of democracy in a manner consistent with U.S. interests, assisting pro-democracy groups abroad, and strengthening electoral processes and democratic institutions. NED accomplishes these goals by providing funding to a wide variety of grantees that operate programs in more than 90 countries throughout the world. 
Mr. President, many of my colleagues may be aware of the work that NED-funded grantees have done in Eastern Europe and the countries of the former Soviet Union. These Newly Independent States have benefited immensely from programs designed to help develop the rule of law, grassroots campaigns, party organization, and private sector enterprise. And while the development of truly democratic institutions is a slow process, I believe that over the long run it remains in the interest of the United States to continue our commitment to those who are struggling to build stable, democratic governments. 
While NED's work in the newly independent states is commendable, of equal importance--and often with less publicity--NED grantees are also hard at work in countries like Nigeria, Burma, Cuba, and Mongolia where pro-democracy forces are most in need of assistance, and where the ability of the United States to make a positive impact is at its greatest. 
Mr. President, even though in the past decade the world has witnessed a remarkable transformation, and the forces of democracy are on an upswing throughout the world, it remains a fact that approximately two-fifths of the world's population continues to live under authoritarian rule. There clearly remains a need for continued vigilance and support of those groups still striving to achieve democratic reforms. While Congress may have created the National Endowment for Democracy during the cold war, I firmly believe that fostering democracy remains as important today as it was 14 years ago. 
Because of the continued need for U.S. assistance to pro-democracy forces, I was disappointed that the Senate subcommittee did not fund the President's request of $30 million for NED. It is for this reason that I fully support the amendment before the Senate that will fund the National Endowment for Democracy for fiscal year 1998. 
Mr. President, there is a reason that four former National Security Advisers to the President have said that the elimination of NED funding would signal America's disengagement from the vital policy of supporting democracy. There is a reason that seven former Secretaries of State from both Republican and Democratic administrations have voiced their belief that NED funding is as vital today as when the program was created. And finally, there is a reason that brave, pro-democracy activists like Harry Wu and Vaclav Havel tell us that NED funding is essential to advancing the cause of democracy. Mr. President, the reason is that they, like many of my colleagues here today, realize that America must maintain its commitment to the ideals and principles of democracy.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, during the last several weeks, I have taken the floor to discuss my concerns about the approach the Department of Justice has taken on mergers among and between large telecommunications companies. 
I was particularly disappointed with the decision of the Department of Justice to approve the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX merger without any conditions. 
Today, I take the floor to congratulate the Federal Communications Commission for doing what the Department of Justice was unwilling to do. This weekend the FCC announced that it had concluded an 11-page letter of agreement with Bell Atlantic and NYNEX on pro-competitive conditions for its merger. 
While I continue to question the underlying competitive merit of the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX combination, the efforts of the FCC certainly mitigate the decision of the Department of Justice to approve the merger. It is only unfortunate that the Department of Justice had not demonstrated the same commitment to competition. 
The FCC negotiated a 4 year pro-competitive agreement with Bell Atlantic and NYNEX which includes the use of forward looking costs for competitive interconnection agreements, the use of uniform interfaces for interconnection, greater reporting requirements, access for competitors to efficient operating support systems, and performance guarantees. These commitments hold the promise of giving competition a chance to take root. 
The use of forward looking costs within the 13 States which make up the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX region is especially significant in light of the Friday decision of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals to bar the FCC from setting interconnection prices. A nation grew from 13 colonies, perhaps a telecommunications revolution can grow from 13 States. 
I applaud the FCC and Chairman Hundt for showing independence and a commitment to competition. The course of action chosen by the Commission highlights the importance of the FCC's political independence. As an independent regulatory body, the Commission was able to use its authority to protect the public interest to win pro-competitive concessions from Bell Atlantic and NYNEX, notwithstanding the failure of the Department of Justice to do so. 
I urge my colleagues to give this case careful study as the Congress considers telecommunications policy. In the coming weeks and months, the Congress will consider confirming four new members of the Federal Communications Commission. At stake is whether the Congressional vision of competition and universal service which brings more choice, more investment, more jobs, and lower prices to the telecommunications market is fulfilled or not. 
The success or failure of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 depends almost entirely on a new team of regulators at the Department of Justice and the FCC. 
To succeed, they must have an unrelenting commitment to competition and universal service. Without that commitment, the act is doomed to failure. The result will be higher prices, greater consolidation and fewer choices. 
Mr. President, I applaud the FCC for its action in this case. The Congress must assure that the new members of the FCC have the same courage to exercise their independence, as this Commission has done to protect the public interest. 
Thank you, Mr. President. 
Mr. GRAMS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to support the National Science Foundation plant genome initiative that is funded in the VA/HUD, Independent Agencies appropriations bill. I want to commend Senator Bond, chairman of the appropriations subcommittee, for his leadership in developing this initiative. This project will be funded with new money and will not affect current NSF programs. 
The plant genome initiative, as included in the bill, is an expansion of the current, NSF Arabidopsis genome project to map and sequence the Arabidopsis genome. The plant genome initiative will advance the current Arabidopsis project and will move us beyond the current programs to more economically significant crops, such as corn, soybeans, wheat, and rice. 
To compete in the global market, U.S. agriculture must continually strive to efficiently and economically improve production capabilities--such as combating serious threats from disease, pests, and climate changes--without harming the environment. The plant genome initiative will provide us the information necessary to significantly improve the environment and reduce crop and livestock production costs at the same time. It is a win-win project for producers, for consumers, and for the environment. 
This project will give us the basic, fundamental knowledge necessary to ensure that our consumers continue to receive an abundant supply of high quality, wholesome food at reasonable prices. To meet the growing demand for U.S. agricultural products, we will need to increase production approximately three-fold in the next 50 years. The plant genome initiative will set us on the right path toward meeting that goal without harming the environment. 
The plant genome initiative will have other far-reaching benefits, as well. It may lead to significant reductions in crop losses while also reducing our reliance on pesticides. It will allow us to improve animal nutrition to increase meat productivity. It will, also, allow us to meet consumer demands for higher quality food at reasonable prices. These are just a few of the benefits that are possible with the plant genome initiative. 
I, again, want to commend Senator Bond for his foresight in providing funding for the building of a foundation that will allow us to meet the challenges of the 21st Century. Mr. President, this initiative is critically important to U.S. consumers and to U.S. agriculture. I urge my colleagues to support the NSF plant genome initiative as included in the VA/HUD appropriations bill. 
MARK-TO-MARKET 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to talk briefly about the recent consolidation of administrative functions at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, recently announced by Secretary Dan Glickman. 
In my contact with Secretary Glickman he has said that the changes are being aimed at the national headquarters and State offices, but that there will be no additional field office closings or cut in services as a result of this directive. 
Secretary Glickman has also informed me that an outside study is being commissioned to assess the workload of parts of the agency, in light of current and anticipated program activity, and will report on recommendations on the county delivery systems. 
The recent administrative convergence by the Secretary is an effort to make the USDA a more efficient and cost-effective agency. No doubt, to streamline the agency and improve efficiency, there is a need to eliminate any duplication of administrative services. However, there is also a need to maintain a vital local field staff with the necessary resources available to them so that they can deliver services to our producers. 
As the USDA continues to make adjustments to its operations, I will continue to work with the Secretary and solicit feedback from our local Nebraska offices. 
The Freedom to Farm Act of 1996, for better or worse, has brought us into a new era of our farm program. To some extent producers, Members of Congress, and USDA staff are entering unchartered waters. I will be diligent in my efforts in making sure the USDA, and Congress, is up to the navigational task. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I had a conversation with the distinguished Senator from Utah who encouraged me to throw my entire prepared remarks away and take a gentlemanly course and support the nomination of Joel Klein. I have chosen not to do that. I have great respect for the Senator from Utah, and I have chosen to continue to offer to my colleagues reasons why I have chosen to vote against Joel Klein, why I have chosen to oppose the nomination. 
I like the man, I respect him, I believe he is a good individual, and I don't like coming here opposing a nominee that President Clinton sent to the Congress for confirmation. I would like very much to give him my unqualified support, but I simply, Madam President, cannot. 
About a year and a half ago, many of us in this Chamber who participated in this debate over the Telecommunications Act--and I must say, Madam President, one of the reasons I found myself in opposition to Mr. Klein is I led him to get the Department a role in the Telecommunications Act so that they would have some voice in determining whether or not there could be competition prior to approving the moving of entry from one sector to another. I fought for that, and many opposed that. We ended the day and prevailed here on the floor, prevailed in conference, and prevailed for final passage. It was signed and made a part of the law. 
Mr. Klein, in response to a question raised by a Member of this body who actually opposed that, it seems to me in a letter gives away Justice's role. Now the Attorney General, Janet Reno, has written in response to our asking her if she thinks Justice has a role, has written a letter saying, indeed, she believes Justice does have a role, and she intends to exercise the authority the law gives her. 
Indeed, Madam President, Mr. Klein, in meetings with me and with others who were concerned about the remarks he made in this letter, has given me assurance and pointed to several cases where his actions seem to be very, very much procompetitor--my hope is that Mr. Klein is. As the head of the Antitrust Division of Justice--I can read the tea leaves earlier on the cloture vote and would expect he will receive a fairly substantial vote, a resounding vote of support. My hope is I am wrong. 
This morning in the Omaha World Herald this article appeared. The headline says, `So Far, Consumers the Losers in Battle for Dial-Tone Dollars.' 
Madam President, this is what Members should be concerned about, not just the Antitrust Division of Justice but they should also be concerned about the nominees for the Federal Communications Commission and what they intend to do, how they intend to vote, how they intend to make certain that we have competition, because unless we get competition at the local level, unless there is competition at that local level for that local dial tone, indeed for all information and services at the local level, it is not likely the consumers will benefit in the same ways that consumers benefited after divestiture in 1982. Divestiture produced competition in long distance. That competition resulted in a reduction of price to the consumer and an improvement of quality, as competition almost always does. 
Without precedent, this legislation proposes to move us from a monopoly at the local level--which we still have for most residential customers--from a monopoly to a competitive environment. We are not there yet. We still have a monopoly. That monopoly can always, if there is only one choice that the consumer has, can always basically charge whatever they want to charge. 
This new legislation preempts States authorities from being able to do many of the things they had done in the past. There are 358,000 residential lines in the regional Bell company serving Omaha, NE. The present rate for that local residential service is proposed to be $16.35, from a current rate of $14.90, a 9.7-percent increase, almost a 10-percent increase from another local company that is also being proposed. 
They have that authority, now Madam President, to be able to come and raise these residential rates. 
It is going to be a problem for all of us if we do not get, in as expeditious a way as possible, competition down to the local level. What will happen, all of us will have to be explaining why it was, in 1996 when we debated this bill, why it was that we all promised this would be great for the consumers--reduction in price, improvement in quality of service--why it is that they are not seeing this reduction in price, why it is they are seeing an increase in price instead of a promised reduction. The answer will be, we don't have competition yet. 
My belief is that the Congress is going to have to think in a very hard and clear fashion what it is we have to do in order to make certain that we have competition. I remember the distinguished Senator from Arizona, Senator McCain, as he debated this bill, and I believe he ended up voting against it for precisely the same reasons I am talking about now. He actually talked about lots of regulatory requirements that didn't necessarily mean that we would get competition. He favored, as I heard him at the time, something that actually had great appeal to me, which is forget all the regulatory requirements, let's have almost a Le Mans racing start. Set a time certain when everybody can compete, regardless of who they were, in everybody else's market--let's have that. 
As my colleagues will probably recall in 1996 when we were having our debate, the prediction was that what we would have is the regional Bell companies competing against one another in individual markets, that we would have the cable companies then competing. Since that time, what we have seen is a significant amount of mergers, and I don't believe the kind of movement needed, with the single exception of a few companies. We have seen Ameritech moving aggressively to open their market and try to get approval, as well to get into long distance. That is the transaction that the law provides for--open up your local market and then you can go into long distance service. That is the idea of the law. But it isn't happening very fast. 
As a consequence, I don't think I will be the only Member who opens up their hometown newspaper and looks at the headline and sees, `So far consumers the losers in battle for dial-tone dollars.' The reason the consumers will be the losers is that the consumers in Omaha, NE, the residential consumers, when it comes to dial tone, they have two choices--take it or leave it. If you don't like the increase you can buy your local service from nobody else. You really only have one choice. 
I say, Madam President, I will not be supporting the nomination of Mr. Klein. I will be voting against Mr. Klein. I hope that other Members who are wondering what this debate is about will give it some very serious thought. They will, as well, be hearing from consumers in the not-too-distant future, if they haven't already, `I remember, Senator, when you were debating this. Didn't I recall you issued a press release saying that this legislation was going to produce lots of new competition and reduction in price, and improvement and quality of service? Where is the competition? I still don't see it. Where is the promised price reduction? Where is the promised benefits to the consumers that were supposed to be coming our way at a theater near you?' Instead, what we have is price increases. 
Mr. Klein, in his rather unfortunate, as he describes it, letter in response to a question by a Member who opposed giving the Justice Department authority over antitrust matters when it came to telecommunications, Mr. Klein says today, `Well, I didn't really mean all those things. I intend to be a very forceful advocate for competition.' 
Madam President, I don't believe that is likely to happen. Mr. Klein approved the Bell Atlantic NYNEX merger. There were a lot of people, when this bill was being debated, that would not have stood up and said, `The reason I am supporting this is because I hope what we get is the regional Bell operating companies merging with one another. I hope that happens. I hope we get mergers because that is exactly what we need in order to get more choice.' I don't know how that produces more choice for the residential consumers in this new expanded area that now a single company will have. I see decreased choice. 
I heard a lot of people coming down and saying in fact what we are likely to see is the large local monopolies competing with one another for service. Though we are seeing some of it, I don't believe we are seeing anywhere near what we promised we were going to see, and unless we get a vigorous advocate for competition in the Department of Justice, unless we get, as well, on the Federal Communications Commission, appointees who will do the same, as I said, Madam President, there will be a lot of people in this Senate as well as in the House of Representatives having to explain to their consumers, to their residential consumers, just what exactly did you think was going to happen back in 1996? 
So I hope that my colleagues, when they come down here to make a decision about whether or not they will vote yes or no for the man who will have a very significant role in determining 
whether or not we were right or wrong in 1996, I hope they give very serious consideration to whether or not they believe that this individual is going to be able to do what we all promised we were going to try to do when we voted for and took credit for this very significant piece of legislation in 1996. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, recently I received a letter from the national vice commander of the American Legion expressing his displeasure with my concerns with the process surrounding the selection of a site and design for the World War II Memorial. 
As a matter of public record, I would like to submit my response and an article from the May 23, 1997, issue of the Washington Post. The Washington Post article discusses the recent problems with the Korean War Memorial, including flooding and damage to shade trees in the surrounding areas. I thought this article might be of interest to the American Legion and my colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to comment on the present situation in Bosnia, the small Balkan country which is the scene of a military commitment involving thousands of American military personnel, a significant slice of our military forces, and the logistics and intelligence which support them. 
Our military led the way into Bosnia as the NATO alliance took on the role of overseeing the security aspects of the Dayton accords. Our soldiers and other NATO forces have prevented a recurrence of war and they have provided a security umbrella beneath which Bosnian refugees could have returned to their homes and Bosnia could have resumed normal life--if the leaders of the Bosnian factions had permitted it. Unfortunately, these leaders retain office and retain their access to public money through policies of ethnic division and hostility, not policies of reconciliation. Consequently there has been little progress in achieving the political goals of the Dayton accords. 
The restoration of Bosnia's economic infrastructure is similarly hobbled, partly because some of the factional leaders prefer the graft inherent in government monopolies to the prosperity that comes from open competition. Another reason is the weakness of the civil component of the international effort to implement Dayton. The diplomats from European Union and NATO countries who are charged with civil implementation have been doing their best, but they lack the authority, the resources, and the planning ability which characterize their NATO military counterparts. The international response to Bosnia is somewhat like a human body which is strong and vibrant on one side, the military side, and weak and withered on the other, civilian, side. This imbalance threatens the success of our military deployment because the civil tasks are the tasks which will bring lasting peace to Bosnia. The economic infrastructure must be restored. Local sectarian barriers must fall and people and trade must move freely throughout the country and across its borders. The rule of law must replace the rule of local bosses and the police must become impartial instruments of the law. Foreign investment, integration with Europe, and the eventual prosperity which is needed to undergird peace will not occur unless these civil tasks are accomplished. Because these tasks are so essential to a successful outcome in Bosnia, our soldiers there will some day be measuring the value of their Bosnia service medals based on how well the civilian component of the effort did its job. 
A precondition for democracy in any country is justice: the ability for any citizen to get justice from his or her institutions, and the ability of those institutions to provide justice when crimes are committed. This precondition is lacking in Bosnia. Furthermore, the very concept of justice is daily mocked by the presence in Bosnia of individuals who have been indicted for war crimes by the Hague Tribunal. Until these individuals are tried by the Tribunal, until the people of Bosnia see that the world takes seriously what happened to them and is committed to doing justice, the Bosnians of all ethnic groups have no reason to hope for a better future. If the crimes that occurred during the Bosnian civil war are not publicly brought to closure, if the criminals can just wait out the world's outrage, then there is no reason for the average Bosnian to have any hope in a democratic future. 
Mr. President, it is because justice for war crimes is so important that I am particularly pleased at recent news reports that NATO is now acting to capture persons in Bosnia who have been indicted for war crimes. The recent raid conducted by British troops to capture a suspected war criminal who was subsequently transported to the Hague should give hope to ordinary Bosnians that justice will be done and armed thugs will not continue to dominate their local affairs. I applaud the bravery of the British troops in this raid and I urge additional raids by the NATO forces in Bosnia to accomplish this essential and unfinished part of our collective duty.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Madam President, I am pleased to be a cosponsor along with Senator McConnell and Senator Leahy of amendments numbered 886 and 887 to S. 955, the foreign operations appropriations bill for fiscal year 1998. These amendments will prohibit the Government of Cambodia from receiving financial assistance from the United States until the political violence is ended, the human rights of Cambodians are respected, and either the former coalition government is restored or free and fair democratic elections take place. These amendments will also ensure that the United States will oppose aid offered by multilateral financial institutions to Cambodia until those same conditions are met. 
The events of the past week in Cambodia have focused our attention again on a nation that has experienced tremendous suffering in the last 30 years. Twenty years ago, the murderous reign of Pol Pot and his Khmer Rouge began in Cambodia. The genocidal Khmer Rouge regime imprisoned thousands of its citizens and executed an estimated one million people or 20 to 30 percent of the populace. I had hoped that such horrors had ended for Cambodia. Unfortunately, last week political intimidation and violence again erupted in the capital of Phnom Penh, ending the rule of law and bringing chaos and uncertainty to the nation. 
Recent press stories detailing the forced emigration and extrajudicial executions of opposition leaders highlight the gravity of the situation. 
It would be easy to turn our backs to a nation with such a dark past. But the poor and terrifying history of Cambodia should not influence our decision on whether to stay involved in Cambodia. The nation and the people of Cambodia are important to our national interests. The United States must stay engaged and continue to work for democracy and the rule of law in Cambodia. In 1991 a significant agreement was signed in Paris between the political factions in Cambodia which brought the promise of elected government and democratic institutions. Under the auspices of the United Nations and observer nations, elections were held in Cambodia in 1993. The clear desire of the Cambodian people for democracy was shown by the participation of ninety percent of the population in those elections. In the four years since those elections, the people of Cambodia have worked to preserve their fragile democracy and the rule of law. Cambodia may have suffered a setback in its efforts to build strong democratic institutions. But it is not without hope. 
The United States should not abandon a people committed to the ideals of democracy and the rule of law. These amendments hold out the promise of renewed United States assistance to Cambodia once the political violence ends and an elected government takes power in Cambodia. 
Until these conditions are met, this legislation allows humanitarian assistance to be sent to Cambodia, but only if it is administered through non-governmental organizations and not the Government of Cambodia. 
It is my hope that the situation in Cambodia improves and our two nations can again work together to build a democratic Cambodia. If the coalition government is restored, these amendments permit the resumption of assistance to the Government of Cambodia. If elections are held in 1998 as planned, the United States may again provide assistance to a democratically elected government in Cambodia. 
While we can play a major role, the United States alone cannot help bring democracy and the rule of law in Cambodia. I fully expect the Administration to continue to work with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations [ASEAN], the United Nations, and donor nations to improve the situation in Cambodia. Other nations such as Thailand and Japan have played a major role in promoting democratic ideals in that nation. The United States needs to work with these nations to return a democratically-elected government to Cambodia and promote the institutional reforms that will bring peace and prosperity to a people who so desperately need it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I have come to the floor to talk about the nomination of Joel Klein to be the head of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. 
I have had the opportunity on a couple of occasions to meet and to talk with Mr. Klein, and I like him personally and I admire his career and what he has done as an individual. 
However, I have serious reservations about his capacity to serve in this position. He has been nominated. I appreciate and respect the President's confidence in him. But it is with deepest sincerity that I say, although I would like to support his nomination for high office and hope that by the time the Senate votes on this nomination I can support him, at this time I believe that his nomination requires much more deliberation. I am especially troubled by many of the administration's telecommunications policies and especially in this case Mr. Klein's interpretation of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. 
I have asked Attorney General Reno by letter to clarify the policy Mr. Klein will be required to implement should Mr. Klein be confirmed. In 1995, when this bill was being debated, I led, unfortunately, at times a filibuster in the Chamber when this bill was being discussed because I wanted the Department of Justice to have a role in determining whether or not there was competition before other entities were going to be allowed to expand their services. The Telecommunications Act should work, but it will only work if we have an unrelenting dedication on the part of all Government agencies, the FCC and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, their unrelenting attention and dedication to making certain we have competition. 
Mr. President, just recently, I met with Joel Klein. I like him and admire him. It is the second time I have had a chance to visit with him since he was nominated by the President to serve as the Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust. It is with the deepest sincerity, that I say that I would like to support his nomination for this high office. I hope that by the time the Senate votes on this nomination that I can support him. 
At this time, however, I believe that this nomination requires considered deliberation. I am deeply troubled by the administration's telecommunications policies and Mr. Klein's interpretation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. I have asked the Attorney General to clarify the policy Mr. Klein will be required to implement should he be confirmed. 
My colleagues know that in 1995, I led a filibuster against the Senate Commerce Committee version of the Telecommunications Act to assure that the American people were fully aware of the monumental decisions being made by the Senate. I believed then, as I do now, that only an unrelenting dedication to competition and universal service by the Congress and the executive branch could make that legislation beneficial to consumers. 
For days, with the support of the Clinton administration, my colleagues and I fought to assure that the law would embrace real competition and universal service. If it did not, it would simply be one more piece of legislation for the big, the powerful, and moneyed interests. 
On the Senate floor we were successful in making the commitment to vigorously pursue competition central to the decision to end the court supervised Modified Final Judgement [MFJ] which controlled the activities of the seven Baby Bells and AT&T following the breakup of the Bell System. 
The bottom line, Mr. President, was that the American people did not ask for the Telecommunications Act. I do not recall one Nebraskan complain to me that telephone service was too expensive or that their service was poor. For most Americans, when asked about their phone service, they might quote Andy Griffth from the old AT&T commercial, and say `rings true, and not a lick of trouble * * *.' 
While there was satisfaction for most residential consumers, there were a host of new technologies and opportunities to bring the benefits of the information revolution to all Americans which the monopoly organization of the telecommunications marketplace was stifling. Every day of the status quo represented a lost opportunity for 
American homes, schools, and economic development. 
There were proposals to invest Government funds in building the utopian information superhighway, there were regulatory initiatives to prod monopolies to invest in the future. 
The pathway chosen to bring advanced services, lower prices, and more choices to consumers was to fundamentally change the economics of telecommunications services from a regulated monopoly to a competitive market. The price for opening all markets to competition, however, was an obligation by all telecommunications carriers to contribute to the support of universal service. 
The vision of telecommunications reform was that competition would spur investment, innovation, and choice and universal service support would assure that no American would be left behind. 
It was and is a grand vision. One which if properly implemented can energize the economy, enhance productivity, build wealth, enhance freedom, and revolutionize the way Americans work, learn, and relax. 
A significant part of the battle on the Telecommunications Act centered on the appropriate role for the Department of Justice in telecommunications policy. The first draft of the Telecommunications Act, written by Senator Pressler on behalf of the Republicans on the Senate Commerce Committee had no role for the Department of Justice and did not even explicitly reserve the Department's preexisting antitrust powers. 
As passed by the Senate Commerce Committee and the full Senate, the Department's antitrust authority had been preserved and the Department was given an advisory role in the FCC's decision to allow the Regional Bell Operating Companies, RBOCs, to enter the long-distance market within their own regions. 
To strengthen the bill Senators Dorgan, Leahy, Thurmond, and I proposed amendments to strengthen the role of the Department of Justice. 
I believed and continue to believe that the Department of Justice using its powers under the antitrust laws and the new law would and should be the bulwark against the abuse of monopoly power. I was confident that the Department of Justice would steadfastly be on the side of the consumer and fight for a vision of telecommunications competition which served the interests of all Americans. 
I opposed the Senate passed bill, because it did not have a strong enough role for the Department of Justice. 
I voted for the conference agreement in large part, because the role of the Department had been strengthened. Specifically, the bill as enacted, gave the Department's opinion on Bell entry into long distance `substantial weight,' and eliminated the ability of the Federal Communications Commission to approve a merger of telephone companies which bypassed antitrust review. 
Mr. President, the effort to protect and enhance the role of the Department of Justice was a hard fought fight. President Clinton, even threatened a veto of the bill if it had a weak role for the Department. 
Having fought and won the legislative battle, I am particularly concerned about recent comments made by Acting Assistant Attorney General Klein regarding the Department of Justice's role in facilitating competition under the Telecommunications Act of 1996. 
In response to questions by the chairman of the Senate Communications Subcommittee, Mr. Klein said that he `specifically rejected using the suggestion in the Conference Report that the Department analyze Bell Operating Company (BOC) applications employing the standard used in the AT&T consent decree'. This standard, known as the 8(c) test would reject BOC entry into in-region long distance unless `there is no substantial possibility that the BOC or its affiliates could use its monopoly power to impede competition in the market such company seeks to enter.' 
While the Telecommunications Act gave the Attorney General the authority to choose any standard she sees fit to evaluate Bell entry into in-region service, I have asked the Attorney General to clarify the Department's policy on this matter. I am hopeful that a clarification from the Attorney General can put Mr. Klein's comments into a fuller and more appropriate context. 
I certainly hope that Mr. Klein's statement does not mean that a Bell Operating Co. should be allowed to enter the in-region long distance market even if there is a `substantial possibility that the BOC or its affiliates could use monopoly power to impede competition.' 
In fairness to Mr. Klein, he put forward an alternate test known as the `irretrievably open to competition test.' Unfortunately, it is placed in a context, which at least implies that the 8(c) test is too tough on Bell Operating Companies. 
During the consideration of the Telecommunications Act, President Clinton wrote in a letter to Members of Congress that the Telecommunications Act should `include a test specifically designed to ensure that the Bell companies entering into long distance markets will not impede competition * * *' 
I hope that Mr. Klein and the Attorney General can set this record straight as to the administration's policy. 
Mr. Klein also wrote to Chairman Burns that `we think that the openness of a local market can be best assessed by the discretionary authority of the FCC, relying in part on the department of Justice's competitive assessment, and based on the evaluation of the particular circumstances in an individual state.' 
Mr. President, I fought hard to include DOJ in the process of determining when Bell Operating Companies enter in region long distance markets because of the legal and economic expertise of the Antitrust Division. It would be tragic if the Department abdicate its role in this area. 
The Federal Communications Commission [FCC] is not the only agency equipped to make decisions about the openness of markets. A market cannot be competitive if it is not open. The Department's responsibility under the act and the Nation's antitrust laws is most serious and should be aggressively pursued by the Antitrust Division. 
Although the ultimate decision lies with the FCC, the Department must accept its important role as the expert in competition and market power and adopt a meaningful entry standard based on procompetitive principles. I am not yet convinced that the Department has done that. 
To me, what is most important is that the Attorney General put forward a test which Mr. Klein will implement which is unrelenting in its commitment to competition. 
The Kerrey test of competition would be as simple as do customers have a choice? If the answer is no, you do not have competition. 
The ideal open telecommunications market would allow an entrepreneur, new to the market to offer bundled services to the home. To do that there must be full access to the local exchange carrier at fair prices. If it takes a legion of lawyers, lobbyists, and investment bankers to even offer a new service to a customer of a monopolist, you do not have an open market. 
On a separate but equally important competition issue, I remain very concerned about recent mergers between large telecommunications providers. The decision by the Department of Justice to approve the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX merger without any conditions is troubling. 
Reports of AT&T's efforts to bring two BOC's back into it's fold should give everyone pause. A year ago, such action would have been laughable. I feel 
strongly that the Bell Atlantic merger approval, personally supervised by Mr. Klein sent exactly the wrong message to the market. I fear that this merger will lead to a new round of large telecommunications mergers which could greatly reduce any chance for the swift adoption of a vibrant, competitive telecommunications market. 
Competitive entry could be frozen while real and potential competitors court, woo, and marry each other. As to unions between the progeny of the former Bell System, I believe that it is generally not a good idea for family members to wed! 
One thing is certain, Congress did not intend to replace the urge to compete with the urge to merge. 
While the FCC and the States struggle with implementation of the new telecommunications law, it is important to remember that a key part of that legislation did not rely on regulation, it relied on the marketplace. The idea was to unleash pent up competitive forces among and between telecommunications companies. Mega mergers between telecommunications titans quell these market forces for increased investment, lower rates, and improved service. 
I can accept an honest disagreement on competitive impact of the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX merger. I want the head of the Antitrust Division to follow the law, even if it provokes my ire. It is in honest disagreement that we can examine the effectiveness of the law. If the law needs to be changed, let's change it. 
Beyond that, there are elements of the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX decision which are deeply troubling to me. Those concerns could be relieved if I were convinced that the competitive concerns received full, open, and deliberate consideration and that efforts were made to mitigate the loss of actual and potential competition. Most importantly, this merger should not be a precedent for a no holds barred approach to telecommunications combinations. 
The history of telecommunications service in America is at a critical point. At risk is a lifeline service important to every citizen of this Nation. The Department's commitment to using its full authority to promote competition is important to achieving an environment where consumers come first and entrepreneurs are encouraged to challenge the status quo. 
The bold vision of the Telecommunications Act is a promise yet unfilled. The man or woman who executes the responsibilities of this office will have a profound effect on every American, and not only in telephone service. 
Our antitrust laws form the keystone of our market economy. They stand between every American and the tyranny of raw, unbridled economic power. The person entrusted with the enforcement of those laws must have an unwavering commitment to a marketplace built on full, fair, and open competition. 
As the Senate fully considers this nomination, I am willing to be convinced that Joel Klein is that person. 
Mr. President, the need for competition is the overriding imperative of this Telecommunications Act. I am not in business as a monopoly. My business is such that customers come in. If they do not like what I am serving them, do not like the price, they go elsewhere, and as a consequence of that we pay very close attention to the customer. And those customers right now who are buying local services, especially residential service at the local level, they still have two choices: Take it or leave it. 
That is not competition. I do not come to the floor here criticizing the regional Bell operating companies or AT&T or any other long distance providers. I am just very much aware, if I am a monopoly, I do very much business if I have to compete, if I have to satisfy my customers' desires, demands for high quality and a reasonable and fair price. 
There is a businessman in Nebraska who owns many things, and one of the things he owns is newspapers. I once asked him how he managed to make money in the newspaper business, and he said to me, well, it's real simple; he takes advantage of two of America's most endearing and enduring institutions, monopoly and nepotism. 
Mr. President, with the Telecommunications Act need to ensure that the monopolies face competition, they come to us, the RBOC's and AT&T and the other carriers are all coming to us saying they want to compete. What they need to make sure happens is that there is competition, that you get rigorous and vigorous competition at the local level. 
In addition to that, though it is not the role of Antitrust at Justice, it is the role of the FCC to make certain that on the table we have before us those things that the market will not get done. 
There are some things that competition will not get done for us. There is a need to make certain we have real service. There is a need to make certain that areas that are remote are getting good service. There is a need to make certain people with lower incomes are going to get universal service. There are all sorts of things the market will not get done, and we have to put them on the table. I think we have an easier time surfacing those things and debating those things than we do in making certain that at the local level we have competition. 
As I said, Mr. President, it is not an easy thing to accept that competition if you are in business right now and you are a monopoly. It is easy to talk about it, but it is not easy to do it. There is a lot of pressure on Justice and FCC to make decisions and determinations that are anticompetitive under the veil and cloak of competitive language. 
I am very much concerned, not by his actions, but by some statements and a particular letter he wrote in response to a concern of a Member of this body about a speech that Mr. Klein had given. The letter, in my judgment, gives away the authority that this Senate and the House of Representatives, when we finally passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996, gave the Department of Justice. 
Mr. Klein appeared to me, in this letter, to give away the authority that this law gives the Department of Justice. I, for one, need to hear from the Attorney General saying that she believes that the Department of Justice has this authority and she intends to make certain that Antitrust exercises that authority before I am going to be willing to vote for Mr. Klein. 
It is a difficult job being head of Antitrust. As far as I am concerned, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice creates a lot of jobs because they insist on competition. I believe you get more jobs in a competitive environment, not less. I believe competition determines in a much better way who is being successful in giving the customer what they want and, as a consequence, much more likely in the long term to create jobs than if we allow entities to perform vertically monopoly, or near monopoly, control over the marketplace, and, in that kind of environment, to be able to basically say, as I indicated earlier, to the customer, `Take it or leave it; I don't care whether you like the price, whether you like the service; I am saying to you, you have to take it or leave it.' 
This is one of the most difficult things we have ever gone through, going from a monopoly to a competitive environment. It is going to be wrenching and difficult for rural areas and for private sector companies that have to adjust their hiring policies, have to adjust their personnel policies, have to adjust their marketing policies. I know that this kind of change is going to force the private sector, the monopoly private sector, to go through substantial change. But it is the intent of this legislation that they go through that change. It is only if we have a competitive environment, again, acknowledging there are some things the market will not do for rural areas, and we have to make sure, in order to achieve universal service, that we identify those things upfront or it will not happen. 
But acknowledging and setting aside those things, it is terribly important for the consumers to take advantage of the benefits of what the Telecommunications Act of 1996 allows. It is vitally important that both the FCC and Antitrust at Justice insist on a competitive environment in order for that to happen. 
I regret at this stage in the game having to say I do not support Mr. Klein. As I indicated, my view can be changed, depending upon what the Attorney General says in response to a letter I have sent to her. My hope is she will indicate she intends to make certain that Antitrust, whoever is confirmed, will carry out the intent of the law as debated fully on this floor and as enacted both by the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
It would be my hope to be able to vote for Mr. Klein. At this stage in the game, I will not. At this stage in the game, I hope this body deliberates a good deal of time upon not just Mr. Klein, but what is going to happen if Antitrust and Justice doesn't enforce the law, what is going to happen to consumers of this country if we don't get a competitive environment. 
The only reason we had benefit in the long distance environment with reduced price and increased quality was the presence of competition. In the absence of that, the consumers of this country are going to come back to us and say that that law wasn't very darn good. 
All of us who voted for that act have a lot at stake. All of us who voted for the Telecommunications Act of 1996 have a lot at stake, and the job that Mr. Klein does, or whoever it is at Antitrust and all the Commissioners who are going to be nominated over at FCC, as well, all need to take a lot of time in deliberating over what those individuals are going to do before we vote to confirm them as a consequence of the impact that they are going to have, not just upon us, but especially upon the consumers, upon whom all of us, at the end of the day, depend. 
Mr. President, I look forward to having an opportunity later to come down, and I most especially look forward to not only yielding the floor, but listening to the majority leader. I yield the floor.  
Mr. LOTT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Grams second-degree amendment. Today, America leads the world in the development and production of high performance computers and our commercial interests in promoting exports of these machines is strong. To restrict the export of computers at the level set by the Cochran amendment would unnecessarily hurt our companies without promoting our national security. 
I, like all other Senators, am concerned about how the export of advanced technology affects our national security. Recent press stories have made it all too clear that potential adversaries wish to acquire American technology to assist their military efforts. In addressing this issue, however, policymakers must strike a balance between the interests of American companies and what is required to ensure our national security. This is never an easy task and is made more difficult with the rapid ace of development in the computer industry. We need to be diligent in our efforts to try and match our policies to what is occurring in that industry. 
Supercomputers are integral to the development of advanced weapons development. Therefore, our policy which restricts the export of the most powerful computers is necessary and warranted. However, the performance level of the computers that the Cochran amendment seeks to control does not reach the extreme speeds of true supercomputers. The Cochran amendment imposes controls on computers operating at 2,000 to 7,000 million theoretical operations per second [MTOPS]. 
Today, a computer that operates at 2,000 MTOPS is considered a mid-level workstation. The next generation of chips may allow Senators to have machines capable of that speed on their own desks by the end of next year. High performance computers start at 10,000 MTOPS and go up to 1,000,000 MTOPS. Supercomputers are machines that operate above 20,000 MTOPS and require validated export licenses under the current policy. 
In 1995, an extensive Government review of computer technology determined that critical defense applications required machines that operated above the 7,000 MTOPS level. Further, it was determined that machines that operate below the 7,000 MTOPS level would soon become widely available from foreign suppliers. The administration then proposed its current policy, which has strong restrictions on the sale of computers that operate above the 7,000 MTOPS and lesser restrictions on machines that operate below that level. This decision was reviewed and approved by the Defense Department, the State Department, ACDA, and the intelligence agencies. Information gathered by our intelligence community since that decision was made support keeping the export policy in its current form. 
Today, companies in Germany, Italy, France, India, Japan, and Poland are selling computers that operate in the 2,000 to 7,000 MTOPS level. And the performance level of the computers foreign companies produce continues to grow. Even if availability of these machines were a legitimate risk to national security, which it is not, restrictions on American companies seeking to export computers in this range would have little or no effect on the ability of foreign militaries to acquire this technology. 
Further, simply placing license requirements on the sale of these computers would place American companies at an unfair disadvantage. We all know that sales of technology or any commodity depend on the speed of delivery. Foreign customers will not wait a week for an American company to receive a license if another vendor can deliver the same quality machine tomorrow. 
Critics of the current policy believe its implementation has allowed computers to be diverted to illegitimate end users. The Commerce Department has not informed companies what foreign customers should or should not receive this type of computers and places the burden on the companies to acquire this information. However, how well a policy is implemented does not necessarily reflect on the prudence of the policy. If there have been problems in how our current export policy is implemented, recent changes made by the administration and measures imposed by the Grams amendment should help fix them. 
I agree with Senator Grams that we should continue to evaluate our computer export policy and how foreign availability affects U.S. exports. We should also make it easier for companies to know which foreign companies, militaries, and nuclear end users should not receive our technology. I believe the current policy has been set at a level which both promotes American commercial interests and helps protect our national security. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Grams amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to urge my colleagues to confirm the President's nominee, George J. Tenet, to be Director of Central Intelligence. He served as Deputy Director from May 1995 until January of this year, he has served as acting Director since that time, and he has already proven to be a highly competent, knowledgeable, capable leader of our Intelligence Community. 
As many of my colleagues know, Mr. Tenet's nomination has been before the Intelligence Committee since April. In hearings and in written responses for the record, Mr. Tenet answered all the committee's questions to the Committee's satisfaction. My sense is Mr. Tenet has enjoyed the unanimous support of the Committee since April. However, the Committee chose not to report this nomination to the Senate until completion of an investigation of Mr. Tenet by the Attorney General under the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994. The investigation was initiated April 23, 1997, and the completed report of investigation was filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia on July 7, 1997. The Committee has been informed that the Attorney General `determined that there are no reasonable grounds to believe that further investigation is warranted. She is not seeking the appointment of an independent counsel.' Having received this report, the Committee voted today to favorably report the nomination. The vote was unanimous. 
The Attorney General's investigation was triggered by anomalies in Mr. Tenet's financial reporting statement and biographical questionnaire. In my view these were minor and fully explicable anomalies. Given the high standards set in the Independent Counsel Act, the fact that the investigation has been closed without the appointment of an independent counsel suggests to me that the Attorney General shares my assessment did nothing wrong. 
The necessity for the investigation created an unfortunate delay, as well as a burden for Mr. Tenet and members of his family. The delay caused by the investigation did not, from what I have seen, create a vacuum in leadership at the CIA. Even as the Acting Director, Mr. Tenet has provided steady direction to the Intelligence Community. Nonetheless, there is no substitute in government for the authority that comes with Senate confirmation, so I am most pleased the nomination can move forward and Mr. Tenet can be fully empowered. 
As Chairman Shelby and I told our colleagues during the recent debate on the Intelligence Authorization bill, the end of the Cold War did by no means mark a diminution in the importance of intelligence to our national security. Sound policy and sound strategy are illuminated by sound intelligence, by the sometimes small amount of secret information that gives full meaning to the masses of freely available information. As technology continues in its revolutionary cycles, victory in war is more than ever the result of the linkage of American valor with American intelligence and American precision weapons. So intelligence continues to be essential to our survival and our ability to lead in the world. One of Mr. Tenet's many tasks will be to convince the public that intelligence still matters, and that the public can count on the integrity, patriotism, and morality of those who serve the nation in the Intelligence Community. Mr. Tenet is well suited for this task--he is a highly effective communicator. 
Another task for Mr. Tenet will be to lead those who are serving. The CIA and the other intelligence agencies include people who take risks for our country, as well as some of the smartest and most skilled analysts, scientists, and technicians in the country. They deserve leadership that fully challenges their talents, rewards their successes, maintains an environment of high integrity, enforces accountability, and adds to their pride in their profession. They also deserve leadership that will remain with them long enough to really make a difference. I believe George Tenet will provide that leadership, and I urge his confirmation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I, too, rise to support the amendment that will be offered shortly by the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts [Senator Kerry]. First of all, we must, here in this Senate, be alert to the risk to lives of Americans in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. That is the first order of business of this resolution. We have lives at risk there. An Ambassador and his family's lives are at risk. 
Second, though, what we are saying here is, now is not the time to quit in Cambodia. 
For all the reasons cited by Senator McCain of Arizona, all the reasons that he has cited about the terrible suffering that has gone on in Cambodia for the last 30 years, in addition to that, we have a toehold of democracy there. The rule of law is at stake. An agreement was signed in Paris in 1991, and an election with 90 percent of the population voting in 1993, we have a great success possible in Cambodia, and now is not the time for us to say, `Well, it's Cambodia, it's a long ways away, it is not important.' It is important. 
America needs to go to the Security Council of the United Nations and say that we want to consider all options to make certain that the rule of law and democracy survive inside Cambodia. 
We need to do the same thing with our allies in ASEAN to make certain that the rule of law and democracy survive. We need to send with this resolution a strong message to the people of Cambodia that we are not going to back out, we are not going to walk away, we are not going to give up, that we believe that democracy can survive in Cambodia, that the rule of law can be preserved in Cambodia and that the United States of America is prepared to lead the international community in ensuring that effort. 
We have come a long ways in Cambodia. Only in the U.S. Congress is it possible for us to say we want to change something in the world and then take action and have it happen. That is what happened in Cambodia with this agreement at a time in 1991 when almost nobody thought it was possible, and then the election in 1993 that even fewer thought was possible. 
There is a lot at stake here for the United States of America. As we talk to China about democracy, we do not want them to say, `Look what happened in Cambodia,' or Vietnam similarly. We are a Nation that has been successful because we have been a defender of democracy and the rule of law, and we have to defend that principle inside the nation of Cambodia. 
I am pleased to join with the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts [Senator Kerry], and others who are cosponsoring this resolution. It is a terribly important resolution, and I am hopeful and believe, in fact, that the administration will take it seriously and will act upon it. I yield the floor.  
Mr. KERRY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970709</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970709</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to comment on one of the most important authorization bills to be debated by the Senate each year, the defense authorization bill. In fact, if you consider that the first duty of government is to assure the life and freedom of its people, then this is the most important authorization bill we will take up this year. 
Our debate, like most of what we do on this floor, will eventually produce a law. In our democracy, Mr. President, law is really our collective national imagining of how something should be. In this debate, America imagines its Armed Forces and crafts a law that authorizes their existence and shapes them to their tasks. This law has global reach and global consequences; so we should approach this debate with seriousness, with respect for those who serve, and respect toward those who wrestle with these issues on a daily basis. 
Deserving respect in the latter category are our colleagues who serve on the Armed Services Committee. They have produced a good bill, on balance, and they have done an exceptionally difficult task in putting together this legislation because they have to consider not only the threats to the Nation and the nonnegotiable requirements to repel those threats today, but also to support the force that is already deployed, as they are in Bosnia. They also face tough budget limitations, along with the demands of competing bureaucracies and those in the private sector who supply equipment and services for defense. Our colleagues on the Armed Services Committee must balance near-term with long-term, readiness with research, and through it all keep their eyes focused on the overall good of protecting the Nation. Mr. President, I thank them for taking on this tough task and producing such a good product. I especially thank the distinguished Senator from South Carolina and the distinguished Senator from Michigan for their fine work on this legislation. 
National strategy should be the basis for our consideration of the Defense authorization, and strategy is illuminated by history. We have a history, in the aftermath of decisive military involvement overseas, of withdrawing from foreign commitments. The surest sign of our withdrawal has always been the deep reduction of our Armed Forces. After World War I, we listened to our isolationist instincts, refused to join the League of Nations which our own President had created, and cut our military to the bare bones. Absent our leadership, Europe and Asia developed into a conflict which killed 50 million people--a conflict which only renewed American engagement could win. Again, after World War II, we deeply cut our military, only to be shocked into rearmament by the initial victories of Communist forces in Korea--forces which might well have been deterred had we kept our forces capable. Again, after Vietnam we deeply cut our forces but fortunately rebuilt them when it became clear that our military was less capable than our national strategy required. We wisely rearmed and created a force which outlasted the Soviet Union and won a historic victory in the cold war. 
The clear lessons of history are: Stay engaged in the world and keep our Armed Forces congruent with the national strategy and with the threats we face. In other words, we should not withdraw from the world--we should continue to lead, and an essential component of leadership is Armed Forces who can do what our strategy requires. Keeping those forces capable means sizing and shaping and equipping them to deal with the threats of today and tomorrow, changing and improving them so they can achieve their purpose. 
Our forces have an overriding purpose: To defend the Nation. But they also have subsidiary purposes: To defend our national interests and to support the stability which shields prosperity and democracy. We Americans also expect our military to do more than just national defense. We expect them to maintain and embody our national leadership. We expect them to be the agent of America's desire to lead a response to anarchy or famine or other instances in which American values call for action. These are the American values the world loves and depends on, and our military delivers on them. 
No other country on Earth has such a set of purposes for its armed forces, and no other country has the multifaceted, action-oriented, take-charge people in its military who can accomplish any or all of these purposes and think outside the box to do it better. Developing and nurturing such people is yet another essential task of our Armed Forces. 
The military that can answer the tall orders we place it cannot be a static institution, and our is not. It is not a status quo force. Some fail to see it, but in fact the U.S. military has become significantly smaller since the cold war. In 1990, there were 2,069,000 active duty service members. This bill authorizes 1,431,000 for fiscal year 1998. In 1990, there were 18 active Army divisions and 10 divisions in the Army National Guard. This bill authorizes 10 and 8 divisions, respectively, for fiscal year 1998. The number of Navy aircraft carriers has gone from 15--and 1 for training--to 22 and 1. Battle force ships have gone from 546 to 346. Air Force fighter wings have gone from 24 active and 12 reserve to 13 active and 7 reserve. My point is not to argue with these reductions, which made sense in terms of the threats and our commitments, but to note they occurred, and also to note they have been traumatic, not just for the communities in which they are located, but also for the services themselves. 
Let me add parenthetically, whatever the size of our forces, they should be supported by logistics and infrastructure that reflects their size. If our forces get smaller, we should not retain unneeded military basis. I, therefore, support the distinguished ranking member's amendment to initiate a new base closure process. The money we can save on excess 
bases is a matter for debate, but excess bases hurt readiness regardless of money because they add requirements for our most precious resource: personnel. 
Too much of what passes for strategic decisionmaking in defense these days is really about money. In my view, money is an issue only after you decide on a strategy and the military component of the strategy. The lesson of the cold war is, if we need something military to protect our country and achieve our strategic goal, we will pay for it, whatever the cost. In examining this bill and our strategic direction, saving money is not my highest priority. In fact, I don't think we spend too much on defense, given our global responsibilities and the size of our economy. 
My question is whether we are spending it on the right things. We can answer it by reviewing the threats we are facing and will face in the future. 
The top threat, the only threat that can instantly extinguish our national life and the lives of scores of millions of our citizens, is Russian nuclear weapons. The mission of U.S. Strategic Command is as essential as ever. It is the fashion to consign the cold war to the historic past, and Russia today is a friendly country. Indeed, the growth of prosperity and democracy in a friendly, peaceful Russia ought to be at the top of our strategic priorities--the potential for such a Russia is one of the principal fruits of the cold war. Conversely, a poor, unstable, chaotic Russia threatens our security because the command and control of nuclear weapons could be weakened. The likelihood of accidental launch or leakage of fissile materials into the hands of criminals or terrorists is increased. No aspect of the proliferation problem is more potentially threatening than the possibility that Russian fissile materials get into the wrong hands. 
The Armed Services Committee has understood the connection between Russian nuclear surety and our own national security. The Nunn-Lugar programs are proof of that understanding and the strategic vision of those two statesmen and many of their colleagues. The cuts made in those programs in this bill suggest we may have briefly lost sight of that vision, and I will join with the Senator from Michigan in seeking to restore the requested levels. 
Russian nuclear weapons are an inescapable, obvious part of our strategic reality. We also face a serious threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to rogue States, countries like Iraq, Iran, Libya, and North Korea. One appropriate response to the threat from these countries, when the threat matures and becomes specific, is missile defense. But there are other responses that should not wait, including advanced research and development on the detection and targeting of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. Our global responsibilities could propel us with little warning into a conflict in which these weapons, the so-called poor man's nuclear weapons, are present, just as we now know they were during the gulf war. 
A third threat is the conventional capabilities of potentially hostile states, and analysis suggests to me these capabilities are in broad decline around the world, just as are the conventional capabilities of many allies. Most countries can stage a decent military parade. But there are few who can sustain ground combat operations or an air campaign lasting more than a few days. 
Recent history, and I am thinking especially of the performance of non-United States NATO forces in the earlier UNPROFOR stage of Bosnia, shows there are not many armies willing to even engage in ground combat unless United States troops are in action alongside them. Likewise, the Russian invasion of Chechnya several years ago seemed to me to be a repeated instance of Russian troops who would not leave the safety of their armored vehicles and their artillery positions to fight on the ground. The Russians blew up a lot of things from a distance but they did not win the war. 
I am most grateful American soldiers and marines still have the warrior spirit and have it in abundance, but I think we should recognize that this spirit, at least at this time in history, is far from universal. There are many armed people in the world who are willing to fight, but not generally on behalf of governments. The foreigners who are eager for a fight are likelier to be with Hizbollah or the PKK than with an established government. This reality, which may be only a temporary condition, should be reflected in how we shape our forces. We may be overstressing the likelihood of conventional conflict and understressing the unconventional, although the latter may be more likely. Let me add that unconventional operations have not been our forte, historically. As the nation-state declines in many regions and dissolves altogether in some parts of Africa, the potential for unconventional operations by U.S. forces grows larger. 
Conventional naval threats also appear to be in decline. Certainly there are no naval forces in the world remotely close to ours in either size or capability. The Russian Navy is experiencing severe problems just in paying and feeding its sailors, much less getting underway. At least temporarily, we may have the world's last real navy. But the gradual emergence of the navies of developing powers like China and India present a more distant threat that bears watching. At the other end of the spectrum, unconventional and shore-based attacks on our warships are already a threat to our forces which, as in the Persian Gulf, must come close to hostile coasts to maintain regional stability. 
Our global responsibilities, in the opinion of the administration, require us to be prepared to fight simultaneously in two major regional contingencies. Looking at the situation in North Korea, a regime which was described to the Intelligence Committee in open session earlier this year by Lt. Gen. Pat Hughes, the Director of Defense Intelligence, as `terminal,' I respectfully disagree with the two MRC assumption. I think the likeliest near term possibility is for a combination of one major and several minor simultaneous contingencies which could be inconveniently located in terms of our logistics structure. In my view, the soundest investment we could make is more airlift so we can rapidly force a favorable outcome in these contingencies, and better sealift to sustain them. 
As we take on new international responsibilities our military should be appropriately tasked and shaped to carry them out. I note the Senate will soon consider the expansion of NATO. Our most significant new responsibility from this policy decision will be to be prepared to defend the eastern border of Poland. That is the guarantee we will make. It will not be a meaningful guarantee unless U.S. military forces are dedicated for this mission and train for it, and for all the logistic support which will also be required. I have yet to learn how this commitment, if we make it, will affect our force structure and what it will cost. 
Every human environment is a potential military target or theater of conflict, and that includes the new environment of cyberspace, an environment which is essential to our national security and yet is an environment without international borders or government controls. If we are to defend our communications systems, our transportation systems, our power transmission systems, our medical care delivery systems, we must defend our national information environment, our public networks. Robust encryption is an essential part of the defense of this environment as well as its assured, secure use by consumers, the private sector, and Government. The Secure Public Networks Act, which Senator McCain and I and others have introduced, aims to make set a global as well as a national standard for secure public networks. Our bill serves national defense as well as our commercial interest, and I commend it to my colleagues. 
 Mr. President, as the threats and the environments change, it is our duty, as well as that of the administration, to ask ourselves if our forces are designed and equipped in the light of today's and tomorrow's reality. What is the likelihood that our Army will have to conduct large-scale armored operations against an enemy like the Iraqis of 1991? Is the aircraft carrier the optimum fire support or air supremacy system in areas where we are denied access to airfields? What is the likelihood of a major amphibious assault in today's world, or a mass tactical parachute jump? What are the tactics and platforms best suited to achieve rapid, overwhelming victory today and tomorrow? 
We have in our military officers who can answer these and many other questions essential to formulating the future of our forces. Our military education system trains officers to think outside the box. Will their political masters in the Pentagon and White House let them? Are we in Congress open to real change or does it present political risk to us that we would rather not face? 
In the past, we have only made major positive changes in our military under the pressure of external threats. Now we have the opportunity to do it for ourselves. The seriousness of the tasks we assign to our military, and the quality and spirit of those who serve and who are willing--even enthusiastic--about going into danger for the rest of us, demand no less. 
Again, Mr. President, I commend both the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, the distinguished senior Senator from South Carolina, and the Senator from Michigan, the ranking member of this committee, for their very constructive and important work. They have produced a good piece of legislation. There are some changes that I would like to make with their support, especially of the ranking member. But overall they have kept the faith with the people of this Nation and produced a piece of legislation that, if enacted, will enable the United States of America to continue to be safe and secure. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor.  
Mr. THURMOND addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am not in opposition, but with the 2-percent provision stricken, I ask unanimous consent to be added as a cosponsor to this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this provision would change American families with children, and it will generate more wealth. It is good for American families. We have been talking about it. In addition to the child tax credit, there are a number of us--Republicans and Democrats--talking about ways to make this tax credit a vehicle for generating wealth for the last few years. It is a good provision. 
I hope my colleagues will vote against the motion to strike. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will take 30 seconds and then yield to the Senator from Iowa. This provision has worked and is creating jobs-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. This provision has worked. I urge my colleagues to vote against the motion to strike. It has created jobs and has been good for the environment and promoted alternative fuel in the agriculture community, and we have long-term contracts that individuals have taken out to build the plants. I hope my colleagues vote against this provision. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I would like to join my colleagues in highlighting the importance of farmer-owned coops in the production of ethanol, and thank the Senator from Minnesota for his continued leadership on this issue. In Nebraska, two of the six ethanol production facilities are owned by farmer-owned cooperatives. These plants account for approximately one-third of the total amount of ethanol produced in my State and directly employ over 300 Nebraskans. By restructuring the small blenders credit, I am hopeful that not only would we help the existing ethanol plants in Nebraska, but that we would encourage other farmer-owned cooperatives to examine the opportunities for rural economic development provided by ethanol production. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. No. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I would like the Senator to be a little more specific. He said, `I have a number of colleagues.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. This proposal began in 1995. I heard the Senator from Texas describe it as a sacred part of the Contract With America. 
In 1995, Senator Lieberman and I introduced KIDSAVE as a modification to this $500 per child tax credit, and it set up a savings account for children. It was mandatory. The idea was that Americans are not saving enough money, they are struggling to put aside savings, and that is especially revealed when you look at one of the most important parts of this tax proposal, which is the reduction of tax on estates. 
Mr. President, about 1 percent or 2 percent of Americans have estates over $600,000. It is a provision that affects a relatively small number of Americans. I appreciate my colleagues on the other side of the aisle saying that is one of their top concerns, that 1 percent or 2 percent of Americans who have estates over $600,000. KIDSAVE is put together as a consequence of our concern for the 98 percent of Americans that do not. The only way that you will be able, particularly for middle-income people, to acquire that wealth is to save a little bit of money over a long period of time. 
So I say we are not breaking any deal. We introduced this bill in 1995. It was endorsed at the time by the Heritage Foundation. The only thing that is going on here, in my judgment, is the Christian Coalition is arguing that this is a violation of something they want. So they are rallying the troops and trying to get it changed. I appreciate the Senator from Texas does not like the proposal, but it was introduced in 1995, and its purpose is to help Americans generate wealth. We know we cannot redistribute wealth. We are trying to enable Americans to create wealth by saving their money. 
The $500 child tax credit goes from 0 to 17. That is the law. It ends at age 17. I would have preferred 0 to 4, frankly, for this thing to go into effect. It was a compromise. We agreed to do this as a consequence of the desire to increase the amount of money that Americans have, not only for education but this money, particularly for those that are not going to school, would be better off staying in a savings account until retirement so those individuals can look to their retirement and say in addition to having Social Security there for them they will have a source of wealth. 
So in my view, this is an amendment that would deny Americans the opportunity to acquire wealth. I think it is a very important provision in this Tax Code. 
I hope my colleagues will vote against the Gramm motion to strike. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. This amendment deals with FCC auctions of spectrum. They had an action about a month ago where they auctioned off spectrum for about a dollar. Some of these spectrums went for that. This amendment establishes that the FCC shall have a floor, and the suggestion was that we modify it. 
I ask unanimous consent that this amendment be modified to allow the FCC to establish a floor, unless it is in the national interest not to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. That is close enough. There was actually a modification that requires me to wait before I offer my amendment. Otherwise I will have to offer it twice. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I still have my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to modify my originally filed amendment since the managers' amendment changes the language that my amendment seeks to strike. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, there is language in the bill that imposes what has been imposed typically in the appropriations process, permanently imposing a restriction on the use of Federal money for payment for abortions. I know it is very controversial, a lot of fun to debate. But by putting it in permanent law, we are doing something entirely different than has been done before. 
Second, I would say to my colleagues, this affects only low-income teenagers. That is basically what we are doing, saying to low-income teenagers that we are not going to allow taxpayer money to be used for abortions. 
Third, I would say, for those who say, `Well, that's right, we don't want to use taxpayer money for abortions,' we do not have a similar restriction on our salaries, we do not have a similar restriction on any other Federal employee's salary. If we have income coming to us, that is taxpayer income. 
If you want to be consistent here, you want to say you are going to treat low-income teenagers the same as our teenagers are treated, then you would have to put restrictions on how we can spend our salaries as well. 
I hope that this amendment will pass and we will strike this language. If you want to bring the Hyde amendment up, I think it is much more appropriate to do so not on appropriations bills. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 was to usher in a new era of competition, choice, jobs, universal service, and infrastructure investment. 
Much of the promise of the new act remains unfulfilled. Most disappointing has been progress on the competition front. Rather than and explosion of competition, in the year since the law was enacted, there has been a disturbing trend toward consolidation. 
I rise to express serious concern about the Department of Justice's approach to mergers in the telecommunications industry. I feel very strongly that the Justice Department approval of the Bell Atlantic and Nynex merger is bad competition policy and bad telecommunications policy. 
With this merger, two strong potential competitors with two vibrant, rich markets are now one. This loss of competition follows the equally troublesome merger between Telecomm giants Pacific Telesis and Southwestern Bell. Perhaps most troubling is that these approvals have opened the door for even larger mergers. 
What was unimaginable a year ago, the reconstruction of the old Bell System monopoly is very much within the realm of possibility. 
Mr. President, the urge to compete should not be replaced with the urge to merge. 
A little more than a year ago, the Congress enacted landmark legislation to open telecommunications markets to competition, preserve and advance universal service, and spur private investment in telecommunication infrastructure. Over the last year, the Federal Communications Commission has worked around the clock to implement the new law. It has been a daunting task, frustrated by litigation and regulatory wrangling. 
While the FCC and the States struggle with implementation of the new law, it is important to remember that a key part of that legislation did not rely on regulation, it relied on the marketplace. The idea was to unleash pent up competitive forces among and between telecommunications companies. Mega mergers between telecommunications titans quell these market forces for increased investment, lower rates, and improved service. 
To unshackle the restraints of the Court supervised breakup of AT&T, the Congress gave Regional Bell Operating Companies instant access to long distance markets outside of their local service regions and access to long distance markets inside their regions when they opened their markets to local competition. 
In addition to responding to the lure of long distance markets, Regional Bell Operating Companies and other local exchange carriers were expected to covet each other's markets. The attraction of serving new local markets was to be a key catalyst for breaking down barriers to competition. 
With these mergers, local competition and long distance competition is lost. In addition, potential internet, video and broad band competition has disappeared. 
The promise of the new law was that competition, not consolidation would bring new services at lower prices to consumers. Where competition failed to advance service and restrain prices, universal service support would assure that telephone rates and services where comparable in rural and urban areas. 
When certain large telecommunications companies combine, they not only eliminate the potential of competition with each other in each other's markets, but they can create a market power which may be capable of resisting competition from others. They can also create the possibility of an unequal bargaining power when they compete with or deal with small, independent and new carriers. 
The promise of the Telecommunications Act was improved service and lower rates for consumers through competition and the advancement of universal service. If properly implemented, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 can deliver, but the disappointing merger decisions of the Department of Justice will make that task much more difficult. 
The legislation I introduce today would clearly institute an appropriate level scrutiny for mergers between large telecommunications companies. I believe that the antitrust laws and the Telecommunications Act would permit this type of analysis, without the adoption of a new statute, but to date, the Department of Justice has not seemed willing to pursue this approach. 
Under the Telecommunications Monopoly Prevention Act, new mega-mergers would not be prohibited but be required to be reviewed in the context of their contribution to competition. 
This legislation is by no means a moratorium on mergers. Indeed, some mergers, even among large telecommunications companies, may be very much in the consumers interests and in the interest of competition. This legislation simply requires a level of review consistent with the vision of the Telecommunications Act. 
It is my view that the Justice Department is presently pursuing a standard of review for telecomm mergers which would be appropriate for competitive companies tending toward monopoly, but not for monopolies which should be moving toward competition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise in strong opposition to the point of order that has been raised against this provision. 
Raising the eligibility age from 65 to 67 is fair. Raising it, too, from 65 to 67 will change the future course of this program and enable us to say that we are taking a long-term as well as a short-term view; and enables us to accomplish the objectives that we were instructed to accomplish which is to preserve and protect Medicare. 
If you want to have universal health insurance as the objective, I am for that. I would love to change the eligibility under law saying if you are American, or a legal resident, you are in. But I can't keep Medicare, Medicaid, VA, and income tax deduction all sitting out there. 
This establishes I believe a basis for us to be able to say that for the long-term Medicare is a solvent program, and it is eminently fair. 
As the Senator from Louisiana pointed out, in 1965 the life expectancy for men was 67; for women it was 76; today it is 73 for men, and it is 80 for women. It is going to be even greater. We are enabling people to live longer and longer as the consequences have changed in behavior and with changes in health care technology. And, as a result, the Medicare Program as well needs to be adjusted. 
For those who have come expressing the concern for people not being able to get health care from 65 to 67, that problem exists today from 62 to 65 and sometimes even earlier. We have in this law a commission and there is language in the law as well to recommend strongly to this commission to consider allowing people to buy into Medicare. There is plenty of time for us to get that done. 
For Americans that are listening to this debate, if you are 65--if you are 64 today, your eligibility age is 65. If you are 63, your eligibility age is 65. If you are 62, your eligibility age is 65. If you are 61, it is 65. If you are 60, it is still 65, all the way down to 59. If you are 59 years of age and you are listening to this debate, please don't fall into the trap of presuming that all of a sudden your eligibility age is going to go to 67. It is still 65. If you are 58, it goes to 65 years and 2 months. The Senator from Iowa and the Senator from Louisiana engaged in a colloquy earlier. This thing does not fully phase in until the year 2024 or 2025. 
Mr. President, I have had many people come up to me and ask, many people call and ask, why is this necessary? Well, I have a fact. I have a very difficult fact I have to deal with. Again, the objective here is to preserve and protect Medicare. That is the idea. This law has lots of great provisions to move to market and get more competition, lots of terrific provisions in it that I think will enable us to seek customers and consumers who like Medicare more than they do as a result of choice, great cost controls in here, some courageous efforts on disproportionate share in this bill. 
There are lots of good things in the bill. But the fact out there in the future that all of us need to accommodate and think about as we decide how we are going to vote on this amendment is that from the year 2010 to the year 2030--that is 20 years--the baby boomers retire. You can't change that number. The 76 or 77 million of them that will retire, they will become eligible for Medicare in that 20-year time period. We are going to have an increase in the number of Americans who are in the work force of 5 million people, and the number of retirees will increase 22 million over that period of time. 
That is a fact, Mr. President. I may wish it wasn't so. I may wish it was a different number, but that is the number. Unless you are prepared to come down here and argue for a tax increase or some other change, you have got to move the eligibility age in order to be able to preserve and protect Medicare out in the future. 
It is an imminently fair thing to do given what has happened with life expectancy. If we were putting Medicare into law today, I don't believe we would put this program, given the costs of the program, in place at age 65. This does not affect Americans immediately. It is phased in. It gives people a chance to plan. Those who argue that it doesn't have a budget impact and use that as a reason not to support this provision are wrong. It is precisely because we are phasing it in, that it produces long-term savings, that they should support it. We are giving people a chance to plan. We are saying we are going to adjust the law in order to be able to account for this change out in the future. 
I hope that my colleagues will resist the political temptation to cast an easy vote and will enable this provision to remain in this law. It is one of the most significant long-term changes that we make in Medicare. And whether you are a Republican or whether you are a Democrat, you ought to be standing on this floor saying I want to be remembered out there in the future for casting a vote that did something good. `No' on the motion to strike this provision is the courageous position. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I oppose the effort to strike this important provision in the Finance Committee's bill. Since Medicare was enacted in 1965, there have been many legislative efforts to make it more fair, to make it more progressive. Most colleagues, I suspect, support the Qualified Medical Beneficiary Program, the QMB Program and the SLMB Program, the dual-eligibility program. All of these programs are efforts not in 1965, but much later, to make the program fair, to help lower-income beneficiaries, to make it more progressive. That is what these programs do. 
Dual eligibility in Medicaid is a terrific program. It enables that low-income individual to be held harmless against all costs, premium, deductibles, copayment, as well as additional Medicaid coverage. QMB does premium deductible and copayment for all Medicare beneficiaries under 100 percent of poverty. And it made the program fair, more progressive. SLMB is up to 120 percent. The chairman has added a provision that would allow it to go from 120 to 150 percent because of the changes recommended by the President, shifting home health from part A to part B. 
Those who argue against this change say that we are on the slippery slope somehow. We have done this before. There have been constant efforts to try to evaluate Medicare and to try to make it fair. This proposal makes Medicare more fair on its face. Individuals earning up to $50,000 a year will continue to enjoy a 75 percent subsidy in part B. That doesn't change. That is for individuals at $50,000 and couples at $75,000. We begin to phase out the subsidy of that part B premium. It will go from about $560 to about $2,100. That $1,500 or $1,600 subsidy that we currently have in place will be phased out. For seniors, with adjusted gross incomes of $100,000 for individuals and $125,000 for couples, they will pay an unsubsidized part B. They will still receive part A with no change, but for part B, physician services, they will pay an unsubsidized premium. 
It makes the program more progressive, Mr. President. It has been noted, and quite correctly, that for many seniors there is a significant percentage of income that goes for health care. But what we need to look at is that inside that senior population, there are significant differentials. For lower income beneficiaries, they will pay for health care a higher out-of-pocket amount than higher income beneficiaries--30 percent versus 3 percent for higher income beneficiaries. This is a problem that we are trying to solve. We are trying to make this program more progressive. 
As to the suggestion that we need to study this, this is not a proposal that just came out of the blue. This is a proposal that has been around a long time. It has been discussed; it has been opposed; all kinds of arguments have been thrown up against it. There have been all kinds of good suggestions that perhaps we can improve it somehow. So this is not a brandnew proposal. We don't need to study this, Mr. President. 
I have great respect for the senior Senator from Massachusetts and the Senator from Maryland, as well. They come to the floor because they care deeply about Medicare beneficiaries, wanting to preserve and protect Medicare, which is the goal of this piece of legislation. By making Medicare more progressive, I believe we 
have a much better chance of securing the intergenerational commitment that Medicare represents. 
Medicare is an intergenerational commitment on the part of younger people to allow themselves to be taxed so that we can provide benefits to the beneficiaries of Medicare. It is a strong commitment. It is a good commitment. It has made our Nation better as a consequence of having it in law. This change, by making it more progressive and fair, will strengthen the commitment that we have for this good program.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I am kind of busy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. No, it was not the proposal that came out of the Finance Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Is this a jury deal, where I get a yes-or-no answer? You have lots of time here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, we did get a proposal that came out of the committee to use deductible instead of premium and, as a consequence of that being untested, we changed it back to premium. 
The premium is not an untested proposal. I have been asked about whether or not---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Another 30 seconds? I can't say hello in 30 seconds. 
This proposal has been around--adjusting by income the part B premium has been around a long time. I know I was asked about it when I campaigned in 1988. This is not a new proposal. It has been argued. It has been vented. It has been discussed. It is reasonable. It is fair. And I hope my colleagues will oppose the Kennedy effort to strike. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I submit for the Record a letter from Richard Longstreth, first vice president for the Society of Architectural Historians and professor of american civilization at George Washington University to the chairman of the Commission on Fine Arts, J. Carter Brown, regarding the site selection for the proposed memorial to World War II. 
Professor Longstreth, editor of `The Mall in Washington, 1791-1991,' is deeply concerned, as am I, by the selection of the Rainbow Pool site as the location for a proposed memorial to World War II. 
I deeply support honoring those who served our Nation during the most pivotal event of the 20th century, as does the professor. I would even argue, Mr. President, that a memorial is not enough. That a museum is necessary to tell the complete story to future generations of our victory over the Axis Powers and our defeat of Nazi Germany. This a story that must be told and retold. 
But I am deeply opposed to the selection of this expansive, reflective space at the key axis of the National Mall, lying between the Lincoln Memorial and Washington Monument as the site of a memorial. 
The idea of constructing a 50-foot-high, 7.4-acre memorial on this site--smack in the middle of the National Mall--is quite troubling. Any structure of such size and magnitude would forever alter the openness and grandeur that is America's front lawn. 
Professor Longstreth states in his letter: `The whole meaning of one of the greatest civic spaces that exists anywhere in the world today will be irreparably cheapened by any proposed scheme for a major memorial on this site.' 
I could not agree more. 
Just as disconcerting is the idea that a World War II memorial constructed on this site will have to be closed on the Fourth of July weekend, as ruled by the National Parks Service, for safety reasons related to the fireworks display. 
This does not make sense. 
As the Commission on Fine Arts, National Capital Planning Commission, and the Secretary of the Interior continue their deliberative process concerning this proposed memorial, you will hear more from me in the coming months, Mr. President. Especially, as my office continues to monitor the process of the environmental and urban impact studies yet to be conducted on this site. 
That is right, Mr. President this site was selected without any studies conducted on the impact on The Mall or the city. Currently, the Council on Environmental Quality is reviewing my request for information on the urban and environmental impact on this site. I will keep the Senate informed as to how this process progresses. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Senator from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, first, I would like to praise the chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth, and the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, Senator Moynihan, as well as the chairman and ranking member on the Budget Committee, Senator Domenici and Senator Lautenberg. 
The bill we are debating right now makes a substantial contribution to deficit reduction. The goal of all this deliberation is to balance the budget by the year 2002, the purpose of which is to enable us to continue with an economy that is growing and continue creating jobs and continue the prosperity that we are currently enjoying in the United States. 
I am saying all this because we will be debating all kinds of reasons why this bill is bad, and I think it is very important for us to begin by saying there is a purpose here. 
We know Medicare is a very substantial program in terms of cost, and any attempt to balance the budget has to look at this program. Chairman Roth has done, I think, an exceptional job of producing a proposal that not only contributes to deficit reduction, but does a number of other things which I believe are very important. 
First of all, one of the things this bill does, in addition to contributing to deficit reduction, is there are a number of provisions that Chairman Roth and Senator Moynihan put in this bill that directly affect our capacity in rural America to get good health care. That has been a bit of a problem. There are a number of issues we have identified over the years, and Chairman Roth has made some changes in law in this bill that will benefit those of us who represent rural States. I would like to list some of those provisions. 
First, rural hospitals and physicians will be able to form their own networks, independent of larger managed care companies, and contract directly with Medicare on a capitated basis. These provider-responsive organizations would not only provide competition, but they will enable us to increase coverage and increase health care delivery in the rural areas. 
Second, the proposal is one that will increase managed care payments in rural areas. The increase in payments will be detailed during the course of this debate, but it is critical, if we are going to get managed care in rural areas, that the payments be increased, and Chairman Roth has made certain in this bill that happens. 
Third, it creates a single designation for small rural limited service hospitals that would be paid on a reasonable-cost basis. This new authority will include the current--called EACH/RPCH--demonstration hospitals. Once again, we have been asked by rural hospitals and rural providers for this provision. Chairman Roth and Senator Moynihan have included it in their bill, and for those of us who represent rural States, we are going to be able to say, correctly so, that this law is going to make it more likely that we are going to get good care in the rural community. 
Next, it allows sole community hospitals to opt for a fourth payment option based upon the costs from fiscal year 1994 or fiscal year 1995. It is a detail that I will not go into at length here today, but again on the ground at the community level this will make a tremendous difference in most States where rural health care shortages are a problem. 
Next, it reinstates the Medicare dependent hospital program through 2002. This means that hospitals with less than 100 beds and where 60 percent or more of the discharge is paid for by Medicare will be paid on the same basis as sole community hospitals. It is a very important provision. There are lots of hospitals in Nebraska sort of hanging on the edge with fewer than 100 beds. This will give them a fighting chance to survive. 
Last, it allows rural referral centers greater flexibility to receive payments based on rates for the nearest germane area. 
Mr. President, I just say again that this provision is one last thing in the bill that will enable us to say that in addition to eliminating this deficit that has plagued us for so many years, this proposal will increase the likelihood that managed care and good health care will reach the rural area. I thank Chairman Roth and I thank Senator Moynihan and Senator Domenici and Senator Lautenberg. It is a terribly important provision for those of us who represent rural States. 
Second, and I will not go at length in describing this, this bill grants authority to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to bring more competition into this system. Competition in my judgment will not solve all of the problems, but it is a tremendously useful tool to bring costs out of the system. It is more likely to get it done in an efficacious fashion. Again, Senator Roth and Senator Moynihan have included this in the mark. And I believe it represents substantial reform and important reform in the Medicare system. 
Third, this committee, the Finance Committee, again under Senator Roths's and Senator Moynihan's leadership, has paid attention to the unique problems that low-income Medicare beneficiaries face. And it can be a tremendously difficult problem. 
It is relatively easy for us to get caught up in all the numbers and presume that all we are doing is trying to find numbers savings. But for an individual out there at the community level, Medicare really can be a lifesaver. 
I have a woman in Omaha, NE, that I pulled from our file, we are working with at the moment, that faces some problems, a very common situation. A widow on Medicare, she has $610 a month in Social Security. She has $182 in rent subsidized through section 8. Her utilities and phone are $55 a month. Her Medicare part B is $43 a month. She has a Medigap cost on top of that. By the time she is done, she has $4,000 left over for everything, for food, clothing, and other expenses. It does not take much in the way of prescription drugs and additional costs for health care for her to find herself with almost no money left over. 
So this mark, for those of us concerned about low-income people, continues the dual eligibility system for Medicare and Medicaid. It continues both the SLMB and the QMB Programs that enables lower-income people to get payment. And I believe the managers' amendment will make it more likely that the SLMB Program will enable low-income people to find themselves able to accommodate the increases in premiums that will occur as a consequence of the shift of some home-based coverage from part A to part B. 
Though I would argue there is still some room for improvement, this bill represents a good-faith effort to acknowledge that there are low-income beneficiaries out there who are faced with different problems than higher-income beneficiaries. 
There is still one out of seven Americans over the age of 65 who live in poverty. Medicare and Social Security reduces the rate of poverty from 50 percent to about 12 percent in the country. But still, for those 12 percent, life can be quite difficult. And I assure you, Chairman Roth and Senator Moynihan have paid attention to that problem and, I think, have enabled us to say that we have at least tried to make certain that low-income beneficiaries are given full consideration. 
The next thing that I would like to spend most of my time talking about is, this mark, this piece of legislation does acknowledge, as well, that we have long-term problems, that we cannot stick our heads in the sand and ignore that the Medicare Program not only promises to make payments for the next 5 and for the next 10 years but it promises to make payments for the long-term as well, promises to make payments especially for that baby-boom generation that will begin to retire in 2010, 2011, depending upon when you mark the generation. It is either 1945 to 1965 or 1946 to 1965. In that 20-year period, about 2010 to 2030, under current forecasts, even as we have adjusted the program--I note there will be some that try to knock out the increase in the eligibility age. There will be some that try to knock out the income-related test on part B, the copayment on home health, the $5 fee on home health, and make compelling 
arguments. But you can only make those arguments persuasive if you ignore where this program is going. 
Mr. President, the current cost of Medicare represents about 10 percent of this budget. And from 2010 to 2030, Medicare costs will go from about 10 percent to 35 percent of the budget. That is the kind of growth that we see out in the future. It is a demographic problem. And when you move the eligibility age from 65 to 67, in order to bring it into line with where Social Security is going, we are making and recommending an adjustment that takes into account where this program is going, what the future looks like out there. 
I acknowledge that there are problems when you move the eligibility age for people who are between the ages of 60 and 66 or 67. There is a problem. This legislation has in it not only a commission, but in law we recommend that the commission consider doing what Kerrey-Danforth recommended, which is to allow seniors between the ages of 62 and eligibility age to be able to buy into the Medicare Program. I think it is the sort of thing that we are going to have to consider whether we adjust the eligibility age or not. 
But I will give this evening--I suspect I am going to have plenty of opportunity to argue this when the amendment is offered to strike it on the eligibility age--I give this evening one set of facts. Between the years 2010 and 2030, the number of people in the work force will grow by 5 million, a 5-million-person increase between 2010 and 2030. But the number of people who are retiring who will be eligible for payments will increase by 22 million. That is a problem, Mr. President, that we face with our program. And we can either ignore it and say we do not want to make change or we can acknowledge, in order to preserve and protect Medicare for the long term, these kinds of changes will be necessary. 
The change does not impact anyone over the age of 58 today and does not fully impact anyone over the age of 36. I say that because I have already seen interviews given to current Medicare beneficiaries, people who are 65, people who are 70, receiving Medicare that are beneficiaries today, and the question is put to them, `What do you think about moving the eligibility age?' as if it is going to affect them. And very often again they will find themselves concerned about losing their Medicare, about whether or not they are going to be paying more for their Medicare. And there is a presumption made that this change is going to have an impact on them. 
Mr. President, this movement of the eligibility age is one of the easiest. Right along with that, a change that I believe should be made is to bring a new accounting to the cost of living index. We debated it earlier on in the year. We were not able to get it. Some objected to the so-called `politicization' of the CPI. The CPI was imposed in 1973 for political reasons. 
I want a good formula, a good calculation. Unfortunately, we were not able to get that because we ended up being opposed both on the left and on the right. But these are the kinds of changes that are necessary to accommodate demographics. 
There was a piece in the New York Times Sunday magazine yesterday. I think it was Ben Wattenberg that made a couple of suggestions. And if Members want to bring that kind of suggestion to the floor, why it will be an interesting debate. He suggested that we change our tax and our spending laws to encourage Americans to have more babies or we open our borders and accept more people in the United States as immigrants, trying to increase the number of workers per retiree. 
Or one can walk to the floor if they choose to and propose a tax increase. Many people who have honestly evaluated this program have suggested that all we need to do is increase the payroll tax just a little bit and that will solve the problem. 
Mr. President, I intend in this debate to repeatedly point out to colleagues that the tax-cut provisions in this bill addresses the income tax. It does not address what is for many Americans the largest tax of all, and that is the payroll tax. 
And I have been in Nebraska many times in townhall meetings and talked about this movement of the eligibility age and the income-related test on part B, which is also in the chairman's mark. And very often it provokes a big debate. And some do not like it. 
I say, let me just ask the audience, How many of you would support increasing the payroll tax? And it is rare where you will find more than one or two people holding up their hand, Mr. President. And the reason is, that for a family of four in Nebraska, earning $34,000 a year, husband, wife, two children, they will pay $2,719 in Federal income tax; they will pay $5,358 in payroll taxes, $4,300 of which is FICA and $1,000 of which is the Medicare tax. Mr. President, that is almost twice as much in payroll taxes. 
One of the reasons that we find people say to us that this system has to be fixed with these kinds of changes is that they acknowledge that this payroll tax is taking a substantial bite out of the income of the working families of America. 
So the bill has a change in the eligibility age. I defend it strongly. I intend to come down when the amendment is 
offered to strike and explain at greater length why those who are arguing to strike it will not help strengthen this program. I intend to argue as well, by the way, that I, having studied this a long time, believe long term it is going to be difficult for us to maintain Medicare and Medicaid, the VA, and the income-tax deductions as intact programs. 
I think it is going to be difficult for us to not, at some time, relatively soon, begin to examine once more whether or not we should change the law and change the way people become eligible. 
It is very revealing when you talk about moving the eligibility age, Mr. President. The law says if you have reached the age of 65 in America you are eligible for Medicare. If you can prove you are poor, under the law, the law says you are eligible for Medicaid. If you get blown up in a war, as I did, the law says you are entitled to the VA system. If you work for the right employer, the law says you can get a subsidy through the income tax system. If you work for the Government very often, the law says you also have a right to health care. 
Mr. President, I believe, though it may seem counterintuitive for those of us who have been worried about the growing cost of the mandatory programs and entitlements and that interest, that we need to consider rewriting the social contract for Federal health care and establishing a simplified eligibility. If you are an American or legal resident, you pay according to your capacity to pay. Everybody has to pay the true cost of health care. 
We ought to allow competition to control the cost. And we ought to allow consumers to get far more information about what the health care system is both doing for them and sometimes doing to them. 
I think it is very difficult for me to stand here and say that we can preserve Medicare as an intact program unless some demographic change occurs between now and 2010. 
I believe it is inescapable you look at these kinds of choices, otherwise you are basically going to prolong the due date and at some point we are going to be facing choices that are far more difficult than the choices that are being presented by the committee in this budget. 
Mr. President, another change that we have in this proposal is a change that says that we are going to make the Medicare part B more progressive than it currently is by asking Americans who have higher incomes to pay more, to be subsidized less, in short, by Americans with lower income for that part B premium. 
Initially, Senator Gramm of Texas and I, who worked on this proposal, had an offering that we would use the deductible as a basis for change, in short, that we were going to try to affect utilization. It got a bit confusing. And as a result of that confusion, both he and I have agreed to change it so that it will be an adjustment in the part B premium for Americans under $50,000 a year. They will not be affected at all. Roughly 94 percent of beneficiaries are somewhere in that range. It does not fully affect any individual under $100,000. We phase the subsidy out over $100,000 for an individual and $125,000 for a couple.  
I appreciate the sacred nature of Medicare, but nowhere do I find it persuasive that we ought to ask people with lower incomes to subsidize people of higher incomes. Very often the people of lower incomes do not even have health insurance. They are struggling to pay the cost of health care themselves out of pocket, and part of their taxes--again, the larger share of their taxes coming from payroll taxes being delivered to pay the health care of individuals with a capacity to be able to take care of themselves. 
I do not believe this challenges the Medicare system. I do not believe it is a slippery slope to destroying Medicare. I believe it is consistent with what Medicare attempts to do, which is to say that the market will not provide insurance for all of our citizens, that we have to, on a progressive basis, write a law that enables us to do that. This change will make the system more progressive, not less. I emphasize that. 
For all those who will come to the floor and argue that this package is not sufficiently progressive, they will find themselves, in my judgment, turning their arguments inside out in proposing this test of income on part B. How can you defend a change, a simple change at a relatively high income, Mr. President, $100,000 for an individual and $125,000 for a couple? Mr. President, this is a substantial first-step change, once again, to acknowledge that we have a long-term problem with Medicare, and we are going to have to begin to make more difficult choices if we want to arrive out there in the future and say we have solved future problems as well. 
Very importantly, under this change, we did not do it for budgetary reasons. Neither the move of the eligibility age nor the change in part B premiums has been done in order to generate budget savings. Indeed, the revenue that we get from the part B premium will go into the health insurance trust fund, strengthening the health insurance trust fund. We have not had it scored. We are not using it to pay for other things. We are using it to strengthen the Medicare Program and, as I say, to make the program more progressive. 
Mr. President, finally, as we go through this debate, I intend to repeatedly come to the floor and call to my colleagues' attention another terrifying fact. People come and they will argue, well, in 1965 when we passed Medicare, we intended the following--and whatever it is that the colleague wants to offer in opposition to either moving the eligible age or in opposition to putting an income test on part B, will suggest there was something in 1965 that caused us to say we would do something and never come back and change it. There have been lots of changes that have occurred since 1965. 
I will in the midst of the debate have plenty of opportunity to go through many of those changes that I think dictate that we change the program again. The one that is the most impressive of all is that in 1965, 30 percent of the Federal budget went to mandatory programs. That is entitlement programs plus net interest, and 70 percent of our budget went to discretionary spending. Mr. President, in the year 2002, when this budget agreement ends, we will have exactly the opposite--70 percent will be mandatory spending and 30 percent will go to discretionary. It does not stop there. It will continue to grow until 100 percent of the budget is mandatory, until we have converted the Federal Government into an ATM machine, collecting taxes and merely transferring back out. 
Mr. President, for all those who care about investing in our future, who want to invest more in education, who are concerned about productivity, we have all kinds of other things we believe this Nation needs to be addressing, unless we come to grips with the growing cost of mandatory programs, it will be impossible for us to do all the things that most of us would like to do in order not only to make our country fair but also to make our country more prosperous and productive. 
I believe the legislation that Chairman Roth and Senator Moynihan have presented to the chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator Domenici, and Senator Lautenberg, the ranking member, is a fair proposal. It will enable us to say we will balance the budget by the year 2002. It is more progressive than the current law, taking greater account both of low-income Americans as well as upper-income Americans' capacity to pay. It is a terrific package that will enable us in rural America to increase the quality of care that we see our citizens getting. It moves more toward a competitive model, not only giving Health and Human Services more power, but giving consumers more power by giving them the data and the information that they need to make choices. There is substantial reform not just for budgetary reasons but for the purpose of improving the quality of this program that has been so enormously beneficial for our country. 
I appreciate the opportunity to work with the chairman and the ranking member, Senator Moynihan, and I look forward to the opportunity of returning to the floor to debate some of the specific amendments that are offered. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to join my chairman, the distinguished Senator from Alabama, in offering this year's intelligence authorization bill. It is designed to focus the national intelligence agencies of the United States on today's and tomorrow's threats. The bill is the product of the open, bipartisan process that has long been the hallmark of the Select Committee on Intelligence. It was voted unanimously out of the committee and in accordance with Senate Resolution 400, the founding document of the Intelligence Committee, the bill was reviewed by the Committee on Armed Services. 
Before I discuss the bill, I want to say a word about the bipartisan process which created this legislation under Chairman Shelby's leadership. Unlike many other topics which we consider here each day, there is no Republican agenda or Democratic agenda with regard to intelligence, or at least none apparent to me. 
Intelligence is simply the best informed estimate of the truth about something. It knows no party. Every member of our committee seeks the most effective and most efficient methods for the collection, processing, analysis, production, and dissemination of intelligence. Every member of our committee seeks intelligence collection and operations to be conducted in accordance with American law and American values. We certainly often disagree on which approach to take in a particular situation, but our disagreements are not based on party agendas. We are simply seeking the best performance for the intelligence community and the best outcome for our country. So the chairman and I were united in purpose as we approached this legislation, we came to closure on our disagreements, and we are united in recommending it to the full Senate. 
Most of the intelligence authorization is contained in a classified annex which we cannot discuss in open session but which is available to Members in S-407. The schedule of authorizations in that annex comprise the National Foreign Intelligence Program of the United States, together with the Intelligence Committee's markup of the Joint Military Intelligence Program and recommendations to the Armed Services Committee on Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities. The total amount allocated for these programs is not something I can report in open session, and I understand that fact will be the subject of an amendment. But I can say while it is a good value, it is a substantial amount of money. 
Before we discuss any amendment which may be introduced in that regard, I want to respond to the concerns of Members who may doubt the need for significant investment in intelligence at this stage of our history. 
The best intelligence is simply a necessity for the protection of our people and for the leadership of a nation with America's power and America's responsibilities. Intelligence illuminates policy. Much is made of the strategic crossroads the Nation finds itself at, the need to develop fresh strategies for the new century. You can't make good strategy without good intelligence. Intelligence is also the essential American advantage in war. Victory in battle comes, and will come in the future, from the convergence of three things we saw in the gulf war: American courage and precise American weapons linked to precise American intelligence. The ability to avoid conflict, to gain victory or attain our objectives without risking American lives, is also founded on the inside knowledge gained from intelligence. I can assure my colleagues: intelligence gives America a huge advantage in policymaking, in defense, and in the international aspects of law enforcement. 
This year's authorization bill addresses today's and tomorrow's threats. We have focused on international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and on narcotics trafficking from foreign countries. We have also stressed counterintelligence and the need for more advanced research and development. Good science is essential to keeping and extending our edge in intelligence, and we do not recommend standing pat in this key area. Our bill also reflects our understanding that despite the good relations we now enjoy with Russia, our intelligence agencies need to continue to pay attention to Russian nuclear warheads which still pose the greatest threat, just in terms of capability, to our national life and the lives of our citizens. 
The bill also has some important legislative provisions, which are unclassified. The most important, in my view, is the requirement for the executive branch to make crystal clear to every employee of the national intelligence community that he or she has the right to disclose classified information to the appropriate congressional oversight committee, if the employee believes the information provided gives evidence of wrongdoing. This provision, like the rest of this bill, does not have a partisan basis. We simply intend it to preserve the ability of Congress to perform oversight, which cannot be done without information. In most circumstances, I hope an employee who felt the obligation to report something classified to Congress would first approach his superiors and get their views on how the information should be presented. But in some circumstances, such as when the employee suspects his superiors of complicity in the alleged wrongdoing, the employee should not fear to communicate with the appropriate committee member or cleared staff. The administration does not agree, and believes they have greater authority, by virtue of Executive Order 12356, to control the release of executive branch classified information to Congress. But, given the guarantees in the bill for responsible handling of the received classified information by Congress, I would hope every Member of the Senate would support Congress' right to be informed. 
This legislation also provides subpoena powers for the CIA inspector general to obtain documentary evidence in support of investigations. The CIA IG is the only inspector general in any of the major national security agencies who lacks this power, and its absence has adversely affected investigations. We have made clear in the bill that subpoena power will remain strictly in the service of the IG for investigative purposes, and will not be used by or in behalf of any other element of the CIA. 
The Intelligence Committee in 1989 originated the legislation creating the CIA inspector general, and in the past year the Audit Team of the Select Committee on Intelligence conducted a review of the performance of the IG and his office. The confidence of the oversight committees and ultimately the public is essential if the IG is to do his job properly. If I may quote from the report accompanying the bill, `the [IG] office has increased the level of trust and respect from within the Agency, the Oversight Committees, and the Intelligence Community.' 
Mr. President, the distinguished chairman has described other highlights of the bill, one of which we learned from the Khamisiya nerve gas experience and is intended to ensure intelligence better supports our deployed forces, and another which enables Americans whose family members are victims of murder or kidnapping overseas to be kept better informed by their Government. These provisions, like others I have already described, are the result of investigations or hearings by the committee and represent, as does the entire bill, the committee's reasoned view of what is necessary to keep the Nation safe and informed in today's world. 
Finally, I would like to call the Senate's attention to the arrest and return to the United States, this past Tuesday, of Mir Aimal Kansi for the murder of two CIA employees and wounding of three others at the gate to CIA headquarters several years ago. The CIA and FBI pursued this man to the ends of the Earth, just as former Director James Woolsey promised at the time of the crime. Mr. President, this is a great triumph for U.S. intelligence and law enforcement, working in a harmony which could not have been imagined just a few years ago. All involved in this mission have my deepest respect and congratulations. 
The Kansi case underlines the quality and dedication of the remarkable people who work for the American people in our intelligence organizations. They are selfless and patriotic, many of them risk their safety for the sake of our country, and many more are denied the gratification of the ego that comes from being able to talk freely about their professional accomplishments. A lot of our talk here is meaningless without the commitment of people like these to actually do something or learn something for America's benefit. The annual authorization bill debate is a chance to thank them, and I do. 
Mr. President, I look forward to the Senate's deliberations on this bill and I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. We will need a consent agreement to set time for the votes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I wonder if the Senator will yield for a unanimous consent to set the other vote? Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the only amendments in order to S. 858 be an amendment offered by Senator Torricelli regarding funding, an amendment by Senator Wellstone regarding tax fairness, and, further, no other amendments be in order, that the amendment offered by Senator Torricelli have 40 minutes equally divided, and that the vote on these two amendments be stacked and begin at 2:45. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-4-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. No second-degree amendments on either amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-5-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I support the amendment offered by Senator Torricelli to declassify the aggregate intelligence budget. This body has been on record a number of times over the years as supporting disclosure of the intelligence budget total. Last year the Intelligence Authorization Act as reported by the SSCI and adopted by the Senate required the President to disclose in his annual budget submission to Congress each year the total amount appropriated for all intelligence and intelligence-related activities, that is, the total of NFIP, JMIP, and TIARA, in the current fiscal year and the total amount requested for the next fiscal year. As has happened on each previous occasion that the Senate has voted in favor of disclosure, the provision in last year's bill ultimately was dropped in conference with the House. 
The Senate's support for this position dates back at least to the Church committee, in 1976. The following year the Select Committee on Intelligence was established and the members of that committee voted in 1977 for public disclosure of the aggregate intelligence budget. In the years since, the Senate has regularly voted to disclose the aggregate amount of intelligence spending. 
Senators will recall that in 1994 we chartered a commission to conduct a comprehensive review of American intelligence. Part of the statutory mandate of this commission was to study the issue of budget disclosure and resolve it once and for all. The Aspin-Brown Commission unanimously recommended that the total amounts appropriated and requested be disclosed. Senators Warner and Rudman and other traditional opponents agreed. In fact, Senator Rudman and former Defense Secretary Brown would declassify the CIA budget as well in order to show it is only a fraction of the overall budget. 
Public disclosure of total budget amount for intelligence is symbolically important: it sends a message that intelligence is a legitimate and open governmental function. It helps to instill public confidence and enables the American people to know what proportion of the entire Federal budget is spent on intelligence, as compared with other functions. Moreover, there is an argument that disclosure is constitutionally required by the statement and account clause of the Constitution (Art. I, Sec. 9, clause 7), which provides that `A regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time.' 
Disclosure of the aggregate budget amount will not harm our national security. Disclosure of the top-line number is not sufficient to alert adversaries to deployment of new systems; spending on new systems doesn't occur in 1 year, it's stretched out over a number of years. There has been no history of conspicuous spikes in intelligence spending. It is interesting to note that our major allies disclose their intelligence budgets. The United Kingdom recently decided to disclose the total budgets for MI-5 and MI-6. 
The reality is that this number is already in the public domain in approximate terms. The intelligence budget is already widely reported in the press. A congressional committee released the actual numbers for all agencies a couple of years ago by mistake. Even efforts to talk around the budget numbers, by using percentages, for example, instead of actual numbers, have given industrious reporters and analysts sufficient information to extrapolate the dollar figures. Knowledge of the top-line does not give an adversary useful information about intelligence targets, sources, or methods. 
Nor has the de facto disclosure of the budget total taken us down the so-called slippery slope of more detailed disclosures. In fact, I believe this disclosure will actually strengthen our ability to protect vital national secrets by bolstering the credibility of our classification decisions--officially revealing the budget total tells the American public that we are using classification to protect vital national secrets, not to conceal information that might be inconvenient to defend. And I think it would not be difficult to defend the size of the intelligence budget, given the complex world we live in today. 
For these reasons, Mr. President, I support this amendment and urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-6-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-7-19970619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the senior Senator from Vermont and my colleague from Nebraska, Senator Hagel. 
Mr. President, I rise today to join with my colleagues Senator Leahy and Senator Hagel to express my strong support for a worldwide ban on the use of land mines. Senator Leahy's bill, of which I am an original cosponsor, is an important step in this effort in that it will restrict the use of funds for new deployments of U.S. anti-personnel land mines beginning no later than January 1, 2000. 
One only has to look at the statistics to realize that these weapons carry a legacy that lasts far longer than the wars in which they were laid. More than 26,000 people will be killed in the world this year by landmines; the vast majority of these deaths will be civilians. In fact, every 22 minutes a man, woman, or child is killed or injured by a land mine. It is impossible to truly calculate the cost of 26,000 deaths due to land mines in a single year. 
Mr. President, I believe that there can be no better example of the destructive nature of these weapons than Cambodia. It is estimated that over 10 million land mines remain in that country. After years of conflict and chaos, the people of Cambodia must still fear to walk along footpaths or rice paddies; or to allow their children to play along riverbeds or around villages. Mr. President, they have reason to be afraid; current statistics show that 1 Cambodian in every 236 has lost an eye or a limb to a land mine. 
Again, these are noncombatants, civilian individuals that are suffering as a consequence of the indiscriminate placing of these dangerous weapons. 
My interest in this issue also extends to not only protecting civilians but protecting our own military forces. 
The truth is, far too often the victims of these mines are the men and women who serve in the U.S. Armed Forces. The Department of Defense has estimated that 33 percent of United States Army casualties in Vietnam were caused by land mines. It is further estimated that 90 percent of those mines contained components made in the United States. 
Today in Bosnia, the greatest threat to U.S. troops involved in the SFOR mission is not from hostile fire, but from the millions of land mines that were indiscriminately laid during the years of fighting in that country. Mr. President, not only do I believe that we can continue to protect our national security without these weapons, I believe that ridding the world of land mines would be a significant step toward our providing greater protection to our forces stationed abroad. 
I want to thank Senator Leahy for his continued leadership in this area, because I believe the bill that we have sponsored is an important first step. However, it is also important for the United States now to take the lead on a global scale. While I applaud President Clinton's support for the eventual elimination of antipersonnel land mines, I would urge him to join our closest allies around the world by supporting the so-called Ottawa process which seeks to negotiate a treaty to ban land mines to be completed no later than December 1997. I firmly believe that a treaty negotiated with U.S. leadership, and which would include many countries where land mines have been used with devastating results, would help to create the moral authority to establish a global norm that would make these weapons unacceptable forever. 
Again Mr. President, I believe now is the time for the U.S. exercise its leadership role in the world to stop the use of these devastating weapons. 
I thank the Senator from Vermont and the Senator from Nebraska for their leadership on this issue. I hope that the President will change and begin to see the wisdom of adopting the Ottawa process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss my thoughts on the State Department authorization bill. I am afraid that too often we minimize the importance of legislation that deals with foreign policy because it is an issue that fails to capture the interest of our constituents. In my opinion, this lack of interest is a sign of failure on our part to explain to our constituents the importance of sound foreign policy to their lives. 
At the same time, more and more people in my home State are coming to know the importance of trade in developing our economy and creating new markets for Nebraska agricultural and industrial products. Essential to a profitable trade environment is a stable diplomatic relationship. It is our State Department that takes a leading role in creating the ties that will lead to new markets and prosperous trade relations. We must do a better job of explaining the link between foreign policy and a healthy economy based on free trade. 
Mr. President, it is also important that we remember that failure of foreign policy can have deadly consequences. Our investment in the State Department and international organizations such as the United Nations represents a fraction of the monetary investment required for the United States to respond militarily to a threat to our interests that may have been averted through diplomacy, not to mention the investment in human lives. 
Mr. President, this bill is a significant improvement over similar legislation that has come before the Senate in that it addresses very difficult and contentious issues with fewer of the controversial policy provisions that have doomed past legislation. This is not to say that this bill is void of provisions that cause me concern, but I am hopeful that as the process moves forward these issues will be worked out. 
Division A of this bill addresses the consolidation and restructuring of our foreign policy agencies. Aside from streamlining these agencies, I am hopeful this legislation will help us construct a foreign policy structure better prepared to respond to the challenges it will face in the post-cold-war world. By consolidating the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the U.S. Information Agency into the State Department, we are not saying that arms control and public diplomacy are less important than during the cold war. Instead, we are reaffirming their importance by placing these tasks under the direct control of the Secretary of State. On this point, I would like to praise the administration, the chairman, and ranking member of the Foreign Relations 
Committee for pursuing a reorganization plan that will strengthen U.S. foreign policy by strengthening the role of our Secretary of State. I do share the concerns expressed by the administration and believe that it is important for the President and the Secretary of State to have a sufficient amount of flexibility during the process of restructuring in order to ensure the greatest amount of efficiency and ability to meet the challenges of the 21st century. 
Division B of this bill contains the authorizations of appropriations for the State Department and related agencies. I recognize the fiscal constraint under which we are operating, but I am very concerned by the failure of this bill to fully fund our foreign policy agencies. While the $6.08 billion authorized in the bill is close to the $6.15 billion requested by the President, funding levels fall short in several key accounts. 
First, this bill authorizes $59 million less than was requested by the President for contributions to international organizations; there is also a $40 million shortfall from the amount requested for international peacekeeping. Finally, the bill reduces ACDA's authorization level from $46 million to $39 million. At a time in which we are calling for ACDA to be integrated into the State Department, it is important that we not shortchange this agency. Each of these funding shortfalls threatens the effectiveness of agencies and calls into question our commitment to maintaining a strong foreign policy. 
Mr. President, the final section of the bill, division C, is of particular interest and concern to me. Once again, I am pleased that the Senate has finally chosen to address the issue of US arrears to the United Nations, but I am concerned about the approach that is taken in this bill. 
Mr. President, let me first state that I fully support U.S. participation in the United Nations. In helping to create the United Nations in 1945, the United States sought to create an organization of countries that could work together to achieve common goals. Today, the United Nations remains an important forum of consultation and cooperation in which the United States can work with other nations to advance our interests. However, I fear that the ability of the United States to use its power in the United Nations will be jeopardized by our inability to pay our bills. 
I do not disagree with those who push for continued reforms within the United Nations. However, I am concerned that many of the benchmarks and conditions contained in this bill play to the unfounded fears of a few in our society and go too far in dictating policy to the United Nations. Mr. President, I do not believe that the United States should put itself in the position of micromanaging the United Nations. While the United States remains the most influential country in the United Nations we must recognize the need to work with, rather than dictate to, the remaining 183 countries. We in the United States are groping with our own fiscal problems, we should not be so quick to assume we have a monopoly on reform. 
It is for this reason that I supported Senator Lugar's amendment. Aside from fully funding the $819 million in arrears payments over 2 years, Senator Lugar's amendment would have deleted the benchmarks and conditions contained in the bill. In my opinion, we must live up to our international commitments or be prepared to face the consequences of surrendering our leadership role in the world. 
Mr. President, while I have many concerns, and I believe that this bill could have been crafted in a way that would have further advanced our foreign policy goals, on balance I believe this bill represents a positive step forward and I will vote in favor of final passage. By radically reorganizing our foreign policy apparatus, we better prepare ourselves to meet the foreign policy challenges we are certain to face in the future. Finally, despite the concerns I have about our approach, I believe that this bill will move us toward paying our debts to the United Nations and reestablishing U.S. leadership.  
SECTION 2108 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, earlier, I sent to the desk a bill that I introduced on behalf of myself, Senator McCain of Arizona, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, and Senator Fritz Hollings of South Carolina. The bill is called the Secure Public Networks Act of 1997, and it establishes as a priority that we are going to try with our law to develop a mechanism whereby, in collaboration with the private sector, the U.S. Government can work to secure these public networks upon which our commerce depends, our Government operations depend, and increasingly our national security depends. 
Secure public networks are essential to the protection of personal privacy and the promotion of commerce on the Internet and other communications networks. Without trust in the system, the Internet will never reach its full potential as a new form of communications in commerce. 
I believe there is an urgent need to enact legislation this year which can promote the creation and use of new networks, provide the security American citizens require in their communications and balance America's compelling interest in commerce and public safety. 
Congress has been gridlocked for more than a year in the debate about the Nation's export policy for encryption products. Our Nation's policy on encryption is only a single piece of the puzzle, however. We need to ensure that the whole system of our public communications networks provides the security required. 
There are three large interests, as I see it, at stake in this entire debate. One of the reasons there is an urgency to develop new legislation and enact new legislation that the President will be able to sign this year is that unless these networks are secure, we risk all three. 
The first is in the area of commerce. The increasing amount of business that is being done on the network and the failure to be able to establish security on an international basis risks the full development potential of commercial networks. 
The second is in the area of Government operations itself. Not only are there concerns in the private sector but on the Government side, from the Internal Revenue Service even to the operations of schools, that we need to have a secure public network. Obviously, if we are going to develop fully the electronic filing system--and for colleagues' reference, less than 1 percent error rate occurs in electronic filing, where nearly a 25-percent filing rate occurs in paper filing, there is a potential for saving money. 
In addition to that, there is an increasing amount of education that is occurring on the network, once again offering a tremendous amount of savings for individuals who look for ways to leverage intellectual property and increase the efficiency of education. You need look no further than what is going on now in the area of education on the network, but it needs to be secure. 
In the area of law enforcement, again, there is an offensive and defensive capability, and I am addressing at this instance the defensive capability, our ability to be able to communicate, for national security reasons, and our ability to be able to communicate for law enforcement reasons and know those communications are secure is the first order of business of the Secure Public Networks Act of 1997. 
Our commercial interests, Mr. President, lie in maintaining American companies' leading position as producers of software and in the promotion of commerce on-line on the Internet. I do not believe we can fully achieve either of these objectives if the current law remains unchanged. 
Second, the American people should be able to have secure access to their Government, as I indicated before, not just with the IRS, but also a whole range of other services, including the Government job of educating our people. There is a tremendous requirement in every single operation of Government for the consumer of those services to know that their communication is secure, that there is no manipulation of the data, no transference of that data. 
And as I said, again, thirdly, there is a public safety interest in meeting the needs of law enforcement and national defense. Here a secure public network can provide both defensive and offensive security. 
Mr. President, the greatest threat to our citizens' privacy is very often described by some advocates of change as being the Government. They are afraid of the Government interfering with their privacy. But I urge my colleagues to consider what the marketplace sees out there, which is that increasingly it is the private-sector interests that are the greatest threat to the privacy of citizens. 
For example, the FBI reported last month that a hacker collected 100,000 credit card numbers from an Internet provider and then attempted to sell these numbers for cash. This is a private-sector individual out there, obviously very skilled. These hackers and crackers are skilled way beyond my capacity to understand what they are doing, except to know that they have the ability to come in and steal information that has great value, to manipulate that data and do not just a little bit of mischief but put our commercial and our national security interests at risk. 
There was a story in the New York Times last week, Mr. President, that detailed the trauma and the horror faced in 1994 by a Texas woman who received a letter full of threatening sexual comments from an inmate in a Texas prison. She asked the question, `How did this inmate get access to the information?' and was surprised to discover that her personal life had become available as a result of a private-sector company's use of Texas inmates to do input into their data bases. 
There was another example in this same article about a 1993 employee at a car dealership in New Jersey using their company's access to credit information to open false accounts in their customers' names and charging up thousands of dollars of merchandise with the fraudulent cards. 
Another example, in 1995, a convicted child rapist, working in a Boston hospital, used a former fellow employee's password to access information on the hospital's patients. He found the phone numbers of young patients in the area, and then made obscene phone calls to girls as young as 8 years old. 
There are many other examples that one could give. The point that I am trying to make, Mr. President, is, as this debate unfolds, one of the things you will hear immediately is that this legislation is an attempt by Government to gain access over the privacy of individuals. That is simply not true. There is protection after protection after protection in this legislation guarding against that. 
This is an attempt to tighten up the security so that we know that a private individual, as I indicated here earlier with three or four examples, does not have the opportunity to either come in and intercept your communication or go into your data base and retrieve information that they will use against you or manipulate a data base so as to engage in fraudulent transactions that could cost not only the companies but could cost the individual substantial amounts of money. 
To provide privacy protection and help prevent abuse of public networks, the Secure Public Networks Act makes it illegal for a person to use encryption to commit a crime; to exceed lawful authority in decrypting data or communications; to break the encryption code of another for the purpose of violating 
privacy, security, and property rights; to steal intellectual property on a public communications network; and to misuse key recovery information. 
This act fully protects and strengthens the privacy rights of the individual without damaging the interest of public safety. Law enforcement will be granted access to key recovery information only if they have authority based on existing statute, rule or law. Audits will be performed by the Department of Justice which will ensure this process is not circumvented or abused, and I would expect these audits to be available to the appropriate congressional oversight committees. 
Both the Government and the private sector need to work together to create the infrastructure and technology that will give the users total confidence in the security of commercial transactions and personal communications. As the largest purchaser of computer software and hardware, the Federal Government can create important incentives to help the market fulfill this need. 
The idea here, Mr. President, is to say that the Federal law can provide incentives for market-based solutions. It will be for the most part the market that solves these problems and determines what kind of technology will be used in the solution of these problems. The Secure Public Networks Act of 1997, however, provides a framework and some standardization to make certain that we expedite that happening. 
This act also sets up a voluntary registration system for public key certificate authorities and key recovery agents which help build confidence in the secure public network. Since the Internet is international and online commerce will be worldwide, the United States alone cannot develop a secure public network on the scale necessary to address this technology. Our legislation therefore, Mr. President, calls on the President to continue consultations and negotiations with foreign countries to ensure secure public networks are built on a global scale. 
The Secure Public Networks Act creates an advisory panel with industry representatives to assist the Government in adapting policies to meet changing technology and changing commercial situations. This panel will also advise the Secretary of Commerce on the commercial situation American companies face overseas and recommend changes in U.S. policy to assist industry. 
The act also calls for additional Federal research to facilitate the creation of secure public networks and the cooperation and coordination of departments and agencies on both Federal and State levels to ensure the development of secure public networks. 
Mr. President, I believe the Secure Public Networks Act of 1997 will move our Nation closer to secure computer and telecommunications networks and help resolve the debate on encryption as well. The alternative to the rule of law in this dynamic area is chaos and anarchy, a condition which will prevent Internet-type networks from reaching their full potential and which will hurt the interests of industry, the interests of the public, and the interests of law enforcement and national security. Congress' duty to make laws to strengthen these networks is clear. I suggest we set a public goal of getting a bill to the President by October 1. I believe if we set a goal of this kind and stick to it, we will enable not only the market to develop, but it will enable us to provide the security needed for us to be able to move Government operations into the new paradigm of network activity.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending business be set aside so I may speak on a bill introduced earlier today on behalf of myself and Senator McCain. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I see there is no one still here on the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Pursuant to the previous unanimous-consent request, I ask unanimous consent that 10 minutes be taken off the resolution so I can speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, before I talk about the resolution itself, what it does, what it does not do, I do want to go back to 1993, as many of my colleagues have done, and discuss the Deficit-Reduction Act of 1993. 
Since I only have 10 minutes, I will not go into detail about the one that happened in 1990 under President Bush's watch. Both of those were very unpopular budget resolutions. I noticed when I went home, in both cases, there was substantial criticism from people who did not like various aspects of it. 
One of the unique things about this particular budget resolution compared to those is that I do not expect to find a similar sort of outcry against it. I think it tells us a lot about what is in this one as well as the progress that we have made toward reduction over the last 4 years. 
That resolution, Mr. President, that act, OBRA, 1993, brought the deficit down by 77 percent, a substantial reduction in the deficit. It occurred, it must be said, as a consequence of the economic recovery that had begun in 1992. It did not produce all of the growth by any measure. I do not argue that the economy turned around as a result of that Deficit-Reduction Act, but there is no question that we had demonstrated in 1993 that there was a connection between growth and deficit reduction, that it is possible for us to take action with our budget to produce good things out in the private sector. 
I would argue that the greatest victor in this Deficit-Reduction Act of 1997, the Deficit Elimination Act of 1997, the greatest victor is economic growth. Four percent real growth in the first quarter is what has really enabled us relatively easily to take the last step. 
There were a lot of terrible things that were said were going to happen as a result of the 1993 OBRA. People said it would result in lost jobs. We stood here on the floor and said, if we voted for OBRA 1993 there were going to be higher deficits and there was going to be higher national debt, so on and so on. About the only dire prediction that turned out to be true was that people who voted for it were not reelected because, as I said, it was very unpopular. It was very difficult deficit reduction, very substantial deficit reduction. 
We have evidence, in short, that if we are willing to cast a tough vote, if we are willing to reduce spending and reduce our deficit, that not only is there economic gain coming as a consequence, but that that political risk can pay off long term. We can stand and say that though we have asked people to take a bit less, there will be benefits coming as a consequence of this reduction in the rate of growth of spending that is contained in this budget resolution. 
So I stand here today to say, where do we go from here? And I have to confess, there is a part of me, Mr. President, that says, `Well, now that we've gone from a Democratic majority to Republican majority,' in part, if not in large part, as a result of the unpopularity of the 1993 Deficit-Reduction Act, `maybe we ought to hold our breath on this side and let you all figure it out on the other side, let the distinguished occupant of the chair and the other 
guys on that side of the aisle, let you all address it and cast the tough votes this time around.' I do not think that would be responsible of us, Mr. President. 
There is a lot I do not like in the budget resolution. There is a lot I did not like in 1993 and in 1990. But given the benefits that occur as a consequence, I do not think that it is good for the country for me to stand here in a petulant fashion and say I am not going to participate as a consequence of what happened politically in November 1994. 
I do believe that the budget resolution in front of us today will, on balance, produce economic growth, and I do believe that it will balance the budget in the year 2002, if Congress keeps its eye on the ball and keeps its attention focused on what is going on outside of these Halls, and that is to say what is going on in the private sector, and what is going on with our economy. 
If our tax, our regulatory, and spending policies produce economic growth, all the rest of it gets relatively easy, as we are learning indeed with OBRA 1997. 
We need to start thinking about economic growth. We need to start asking ourselves the question, what do we do, not only to produce the growth, but when is the growth good for us and when are we willing to step in and say the growth is not good? 
I mean, all of us, I suspect, universally would say, I do not care if it does produce jobs, I am not in favor of pornography, and I am not in favor of spoiling our environment, and I am not in favor of making our streets unsafe. There are lots of examples where we would step in and put a law in place even though it might prevent somebody freely from being able to produce jobs. We will say that those particular jobs are not good for us and thus we are going to put a law in place to prevent that activity from happening. 
There is a larger problem as well, Mr. President. I do think, though, growth lifts all boats, that a rising tide will tend to lift all boats. As we have seen with the dramatic narrowing of economic inequality and income inequality that has occurred in the last 4 years, that there is still going to be large sectors of our economy, large sectors of our population, individuals and their families that are going to be left out of the benefit of that growth. 
That is especially true if you take the position, as I do, that we ought to put in place laws that say the United States of America is going to lead the effort to lower trade barriers, that we believe that generally speaking we are better off competing in a global economy. In that global economy with technology, with immigration, with the welfare-to-work programs that are going on, people at the lower end of the wage scale are going to suffer. They are going to be under a lot of pressure. 
People making $5.15 an hour, $6, $7, $8, $9, $10 an hour are going to be under a great deal of pressure. They are going to be working more than one job. They are going to be paying child care. They are going to have lots of other problems they are going to face. 
It is important for us to pay attention to our capacity to give them the opportunity to get a good education, get retrained, go to college, if they choose to. We have to look at those sorts of things, and keep our eyes open to special problems that exist today that did not exist 30 years ago. 
Perhaps the most dramatic difference is that in the 1990's the amount of debt accumulated to go to college exceeds all the debt that was accumulated in the 1980's, 1970's, 1960's combined. By the end of the century $50 billion of new debt will be acquired by American youth who are trying to go to college; graduating today with an average of $10,000 debt, growing by some 14 percent a year. 
The President's response to try to direct some additional resources for education, I believe, is good. I also think it is important for us to try to come up with mechanisms and enable Americans, using the laws of the land, to acquire the wealth that they need to make those kinds of purchases not just for education, 
but for retirement as well. 
This balanced budget will produce, in short, economic growth. But I do not believe that this balanced budget will take us in every single instance in directions that we need to go. 
I think that we are still going to have problems with our schools. I think we still have problems with fighting the war on drugs. I think we still have problems in a number of other areas where our current policies are inadequate to the task. They are going to require us to reach down and look for different ways of doing things if we want to change our future. 
The three areas that I would like to address here this morning, Mr. President, where this law does not change our future adequately is the percentage of our budget that is going for entitlements versus discretionary, the amount of wealth that individuals have in order to be able to plan for their retirement, and, Mr. President, I also believe we need to look at the mix of people over the age of 65 versus under the age of 20. I still do not believe we adequately adjusted to the problem that we are going to face when that baby-boom generation begins to retire. 
I would like, Mr. President, just to run through a couple of charts here very quickly. You all probably have seen them before. It is what everybody wants to do--look at another chart here on the floor of the Senate. 
This is a line that shows the births in the United States from 1910 through 1920. I bring this to the floor because it is a demographic problem that we face, not a problem that was caused by Ronald Reagan or George McGovern or Phyllis Schlafly, or secular humanists. This is a problem that was created as a consequence of 77 million Americans who were born between the years of 1945 and 1965. And then the birthrate dropped for about 15 years afterward. 
Thus, what that has produced is a relatively small number of people who will be supporting a much larger number of people who will be retired out there in the future. 
This is a dramatic change, Mr. President, that Congress needs to factor into our thinking because this is our future. This is where we are going. As I said, I am confident 5 years from now, 1997, we will have a balanced budget, but we have not addressed this problem. This is the future for America: 
In 1997, 29 percent of our population is under the age of 20; 13 percent is over the age of 65; 79 million in one group, 34 million in the other group. In 2030--all the speeches we give about children, 4 million babies born in America this year, those babies will be 33 years of age in 2030, and all of us understand how quickly 33 years go by. In 2030, when those babies are now out there working, there will be 24 percent of our population, down from 29 percent, under the age of 20. The under-20 population will only have grown by 4 million. But the over-65 population, Mr. President, will have doubled, going from 34 million to 68 million. If you look at the number of workers per retirees, it is even more dramatic, a doubling of the population over the age of 65 and a 20 percent increase in the size of the American work force. 
Mr. President, we have simply got to address this problem. The only way for us to do it, in my judgment, is to look at the mix of our budget that is going to mandatory versus discretionary. In 1963, 30 percent of our budget went to mandatory spending, 70 percent went to discretionary spending. At the end of this budget resolution it will be exactly reversed, 70 percent mandatory, 30 percent discretionary. Mr. President, in about 10 or 12 years after that it will be 100 percent mandatory and 30 percent discretionary. 
A much bigger and more difficult problem for us to face as a Congress than balancing the budget is balancing the mix of mandatory and discretionary spending. It is not a mathematical formula, Mr. President. If we do not take action on this, people who will retire 15, 20 years from now--and again, this is a problem for the baby-boom generation; this is not a problem for the current generation. There are enough workers in the workplace today to support current retirees. But those people who will be retiring out in the future, Mr. President, they are not going to like that future as a consequence of the kinds of choices that will be forced upon them later, unless we take action earlier to accommodate. 
Mr. President, I would like to see this budget resolution changed. I am hopeful we can build some bipartisan consensus to change it. Senator Lieberman and I, Senator Breaux, and a number of others have been working on a proposal called Kids Save that would alter the child care credit in this resolution that would enable us to help working families acquire wealth. Unless you expect to hit the lottery, unless you expect to inherit the wealth, the only and the best and most reliable way to generate wealth is to save a little bit of money over a long period of time. Kids Save enables us to do that. It enables working families to have that wealth. If they want to use it for education, if they want to use it, preferably, for retirement, they will have it when they get there. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this budget may solve our short-term budget problems, but my concern remains that it does not do enough about the long-term budget problems we face. If we want to keep the budget in check over the long-haul, we need to adopt policies that will slow entitlement spending in a rational, equitable way. 
At present, we use the Consumer Price Index [CPI] to determine cost-of-living adjustments in our Federal tax and entitlement programs. There is wide, although not universal, agreement among leading economists, that the CPI overstates the cost-of-living and should be adjusted. Indeed the December 4, 1996 final report to the Senate Finance Committee from the Advisory Commission to Study the Consumer Price Index concluded that: 
The Commission's best estimate of the size of the upward bias looking forward is 1.1 percentage points per year. The range of plausible values is .8 to 1.6 points per year. 
Mr. President, we ought not to make the problems we face in funding our entitlement programs even worse by paying benefits based on an overstated cost of living. Spending on entitlement programs is already crowding out spending for the traditional discretionary functions of Government like clean air and water, a strong national defense, parks and recreation, education, our transportation system, research and development, and other infrastructure spending. 
If steps are not taken to reverse this trend, nearly all Federal revenues will be consumed by entitlement spending and interest on the debt shortly after the year 2000. By 2030, revenues may not even cover entitlement spending, much less interest on the debt or a single dollar of discretionary spending. This is an unsustainable trend. 
Adjusting the cost-of-living adjustments triggered by the CPI, by 1 percentage point, would produce nearly a trillion dollars in savings over 12 years and $46 billion in 2002 alone. To illustrate what just half of this amount--$23 billion--in domestic discretionary spending could fund, I have a list of programs and what they will cost in inflation-adjusted numbers in 2002. This entire list of programs could be funded by half of a 1 percentage point reduction in CPI, with money to spare. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Expressed another way, $23 billion could fund nearly all of the Highway Trust Fund--$25.2 billion in 2002--or all of NIH--$14.294 billion in 2002--and all of EPA--$7.398 billion in 2002. 
Mr. President, if we are making a mistake, we ought to correct it. Surely if it was almost universally believed that we were understating the cost-of-living, we would have already taken care of that problem. Although the time for making this change this year appears to have passed, I hope that the distinguished chairman and ranking member of the Finance Committee will continue their fine work to see that we correct this error sooner, rather than later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-3-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, this amendment addresses the need to keep the budget in balance over the long haul. The budget resolution we are considering today will bring us into balance by 2002. I support that budget resolution, that budget effort. But after that work is done, there is some additional work and very difficult work that we need to do. 
There are four sets of numbers that I want to bring to my colleagues' attention. The first set of numbers deals with where we are headed in terms of how much of the budget goes to discretionary spending and how much goes to mandatory spending, that is entitlements and interest on the debt. In 1963 our budget was approximately 70 percent discretionary, 30 percent mandatory spending. At the end of this budget agreement, it will be over 70 percent mandatory and less than 30 percent discretionary spending. And about 10 years beyond that it will be nearly 100 percent mandatory spending. 
What my amendment says is we ought to fix it at 70 percent, we ought to do what we can to fix it at 70 percent, that at some point we have to stop the movement toward this budget becoming 100 percent mandated spending. 
The second set of numbers, Mr. President, illustrates that this problem is not caused by liberals; it is not caused by conservatives. It is caused by a very difficult demographic fact, and that demographic fact is the baby boom generation: 77 million people born between the years 1945 and 1965. 
Third, today we have 133 million Americans who are working; they are supporting about 39 million beneficiaries in the Social Security program. In 2030, when a baby born today will be 33 years of age, there will be 163 million workers, a 20-percent increase, but there will be more than a doubling of number of people who will then be beneficiaries, 80 million. We need to address the difficult policy issues behind these numbers sooner rather than later. 
Let me give you my last set of numbers, Mr. President, and then I will be finished. I have heard lots of people come to the floor and talk about the need to take care of our children and make sure that we are investing in our children. 
In 1996, 29 percent of our population is under the age of 20. In 2030, 24 percent of our population will be under the age of 20. So again, in 33 years, a relatively short period of time, we are going to go from 79 million people under the age of 20 to 83 million people under the age of age 20. But in the over 65 category we will go from 13 percent to 20, from 34 million to 68 million, a doubling of that population. 
This amendment simply says to understand the growth of mandatory programs and get that growth under control, it is the sense of the Senate that we make every effort we can to hold mandatory spending below 70 percent of the Federal budget and that we make the structural reforms necessary to make that happen. 
I appreciate very much the Senator from Texas allowing me to do this, and I appreciate very much both the Senator from New Mexico and the Senator from New Jersey agreeing to accept this as part of this budget resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I yield such time as desired to the distinguished Senator from Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, along with my colleague, my good friend, Senator Chuck Hagel from my home State of Nebraska, we are offering the Vietnam Veterans Memorial resolution to remember this memorial, but also to remind Americans that the possibility for healing exists in this memorial. There are constant reminders that open the wounds of this war once again. 
As Senator Hagel mentioned, in today's paper we read that our first Ambassador to Vietnam since we left in 1975, Pete Petersen, is coming back to the United States of America and bringing with him the remains of men who were killed in that war, once again, opening up, for a variety of reasons, a wound that makes it difficult for people to go on with their lives. 
Mr. President, this wall does a remarkable thing. It does enable an individual to begin to heal from this particular war, or for other wars, as well. On this Memorial Day we ask the Senate and we ask the American people to take a moment to reflect and remember those who served in Vietnam during this Nation's longest conflict. 
I served in Vietnam with five of my Senator colleagues, Senator Chuck Robb, who was here a few moments ago, Senator John Kerry, Senator John McCain, Senator Max Cleland, and Senator Chuck Hagel, and although we may argue legislation from different sides of the aisle, we share a bond beyond politics and beyond party, as do veterans of all conflicts, and are firm in the belief that we are all Americans first and foremost. 
As we gather with friends and with family in observance of Memorial Day, I urge all Americans to take time to reflect upon the day's true meaning. Whether we attend a public observance, mark a grave, or simply bow our heads in quiet reflection, we should remember to honor those who, by serving, put their faith and trust in the ideals for which our Nation stands. 
Mr. President, my colleague from Nebraska and I offer this resolution and feel it especially fitting because this August the Vietnam Veterans Memorial will be 15 years old, almost as old as the conflict was long. On May 24, 1997, more than 22 years after the last known United States casualty, the Vietnam Moving Memorial will pay a visit to Omaha, NE. For thousands of Vietnam veterans and their families, this memorial serves as a place of reconciliation and remembrance. It invites people to come and remember the bravery and valor of their fallen friends, family, and colleagues, while serving as well, Mr. President, as a permanent tribute to those who gave their lives. 
Through this resolution, and in observation of this 15th anniversary, I hope the Senate will encourage all Americans to remember to honor the memory of the brave men and women who fought and died in service to our Nation during the Vietnam war, and indeed all conflicts. 
Mr. President, at the dedication of the Bunker Hill Memorial on June 17, 1825, Daniel Webster closed his speech with these words:  
Let our object be our country, our whole country and nothing but our country. And by the blessing of God may that country itself become a vast and splendid monument, not of oppression and terror, but of wisdom, peace, and of liberty, upon which the world may gaze with admiration, forever. 
We honor those who have come before us not just with the memory of their efforts, but by building upon the freedom and prosperity we enjoy because of their sacrifice. The men and women we pay tribute to during this and every Memorial Day deserve nothing less. 
Mr. President, as I have said, one doesn't have to look very far for reminders of the divisive nature of this war, and one doesn't have to look very far for inspiration that enables us to overcome the worst of these memories. 
Indeed, I had the pleasure of sitting with the Presiding Officer and listening to his presentation to a roomful of young heroes who had been recognized for their service, and recognized in particular for their service at the community level--young men and women who saw something in their community they didn't like, saw something in their community that they thought was wrong, and decided on their own to correct that wrong. 
I heard the Senator from Arkansas say that he heard a long time ago a young girl talking about what it meant to be famous; what it meant to acquire fame. She wanted in her lifetime to be a famous person. Then she came to Washington, DC, and while at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier realized that fame by no means is the only object of our lives, nor should be the only object of our lives; that one can be a hero without recognition; that one can serve God and other human beings as a consequence of just believing that something needs to be done without regard to whether or not it would be recognized in headlines, or radio commentary, or television broadcasts. 
It is the most eloquent demonstration of why we as human beings are special; that we have inside of us a soul, a spirit that recognizes that at some point the greatest thing we can do is to say that somebody is more important than we are, that something is out there more important than just taking care of ourselves. 
I believe strongly, Mr. President, that we are not free until in love, and recognize that until in love we are willing to give ourselves. And I hope that this remembrance of the Vietnam Memorial will not just inspire people to say that we have got to get over the Vietnam war itself but I hope it will allow Americans as individual men and women to see that now in this moment heroes are needed more than ever before. 
This Nation was terribly divided in the Vietnam war, with families turning against families, sons against fathers, and neighbors against neighbors. 
On this floor on August 7, 1964, the Senate, by a vote of 88 to 2, and the House unanimously, enacted what was called the Gulf of Tonkin resolution that resulted in a substantial buildup of forces, of increased drafting, of increased calls going out to young men saying, `It is time for you to serve the cause of freedom.' That cause deteriorated and divided this Nation in a terrible fashion, and caused Americans to say not only do we question the cause of freedom but cause us as well to say that we no longer believe our Government; we no longer trust that this is a Government of, by, and for the people. `We feel as if we have been lied to. And the trust is broken, it has been snapped, it is permanent, and we are not going to put it back together.' 
This wall, this remembrance, enables us to see that trust can be put back together, if we are willing to forgive; if we are willing to say that we forgive those with whom we disagreed; that we recognize our common bond. And on this Memorial Day not only do we pay tribute to those who have sacrificed for us, but we rededicate ourselves to the task of sacrificing for others. 
Mr. President, it is a pleasure and an honor for me to share cosponsorship with my friend and colleague from Nebraska, Senator Hagel, and all the other Members of the Senate who have joined in this resolution. I appreciate their support. 
I call upon Americans not just to see this as another resolution but to see this as a Memorial Day, as an opportunity for us to rededicate ourselves to the cause of freedom. 
Mr. HAGEL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the time controlled on H.R. 1122 on the Democratic side be changed to reflect that Senator Daschle or his designee controls the time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, over the last several weeks, I have been meeting with colleagues about the need to aggressively pursue legislation to facilitate the creation of secure public networks for communication, commerce, education, research, telemedicine, and Government. There is an urgent need to enact legislation this year which can advance the creation of new networks and balance America's compelling interests in commerce and security. 
Secure networks are critical for the protection of personal privacy and the promotion of commerce on the Internet and other interactive computer systems. 
The Congress has been gridlocked for more than a year in a debate about the Nation's export policy for encryption software. I believe that meaningful compromise can be found on this issue which can clear the way for the consideration of broader legislation which fosters the creation of secure networks. 
If we are successful, a powerhouse of economic activity and opportunity can be unleashed. 
Senators Burns and Leahy as well as Congressman Goodlatte have introduced legislation which identifies a real problem with the current law on the export of encryption software. Thanks to their leadership, there is a growing consensus that reform is needed. In many ways, the introduction of their legislation has already motivated meaningful changes in the administration's policy on software exports. Yet, even with those changes, the underlying law needs to be changed and a broader agenda for secure networks needs to be adopted. 
What must happen in a relatively quick fashion is an agreement on a bipartisan, bicameral process to enact secure network legislation which includes a solution to the encryption export riddle. Our goal should be to enact legislation which the President can sign by October 1, 1997. 
The ability to use strong encryption is an important element in creating secure networks. Through encryption, messages are encoded and decoded. Encryption protects privacy and security. The American people need to know that their communications are safe and that the most private, confidential personal information can be confidentially communicated on computer networks. 
Encryption however, poses some very serious problems for law enforcement and national security which cannot be ignored. The challenge is to promote the use of encryption in a manner that does not unduly compromise national security or 
public safety and does not unnecessarily burden industry. 
What needs to be created is an electronic environment which gives users total confidence in the security of commercial transactions and personal communications. To do so, a largely private infrastructure must be developed to provide for authentication of messages, keys, and digital signatures and when necessary, the recovery of keys. 
As the largest purchaser of computer software and hardware, the Federal Government can create important incentives to help the market swiftly respond to this need. 
I see three big interests at stake--network commerce, network government, and network security. First, the need to facilitate commerce, both in advancing America's leading position as an exporter of software and in the promotion of commerce on the Internet, grows in importance every day. Second, there is the civic interest of Government. The American people should be able to have secure access to their Government, for the resolution of problems, the communication of ideas and access to services via electronic networks. Third, there is a security interest of law enforcement and national defense. Defensively, that interest is to protect citizens from foreign or criminal violations of privacy. Offensively, there needs to be a means fully consistent with our Constitution for discreet access to communications. That digital access should be no more or less expansive than exists in the nondigital world. 
Mr. President, there needs to be a commitment to a process for resolving a host of issues. First and foremost what is needed is a commitment by the leadership of this Congress to work together in good faith to find a resolution that can be signed into law by the President. 
I have proposed a discussion outline for compromise. If there can be agreement on principle and process, I am confident good faith negotiations between all interested parties can meet the ambitious goal of new legislation before the end of this session of Congress. This outline is meant to spark discussion and facilitate compromise on some very challenging issues. It is by no means etched in stone and I welcome suggestions for improvement and additions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to Bob Devaney, the former athletic director and head football coach of the University of Nebraska, who passed away last Friday. 
It is impossible to overstate the impact that Bob Devaney had on the people of our State. And although he was born and raised in Saginaw, MI, he was the pride of all Nebraska. 
In 1962, he came from Wyoming and took the helm of a football team that finished 3-6-1 the year before. In his first year as head coach, he turned them into a 9-1 winner--the best record at Nebraska since 1905. 
By the time he left the head coaching job to become athletic director in 1972, he had won two national championships, boasted the winningest record in college football at the time, and built the third-largest city in the State--Memorial Stadium on a fall Saturday. He won eight Big Eight championships, six bowl games, and in 1982, a place in the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Numbers alone cannot measure Bob Devaney's achievement. He brought pride to Nebraska and taught us what it took and what it felt like to be No. 1. He taught our children how to dream beyond the boundaries of the rural communities and urban neighborhoods in which they live, and he taught us all that with commitment and determination, our dreams could become realities. 
But his most important legacy was that of sportsmanship. One of the many tributes to Bob Devaney in the wake of his death shared this story, and captures the greatness of the man: 
In one game in 1970, after Nebraska trailed Kansas by 20-10, the Cornhuskers rallied for a 41-20 victory. `You learned something today,' Mr. Devaney told his players after the game. `You learned you can come back. Remember that. That's the lesson of life.' 
Bob Devaney taught all of us about the lessons of life. Bob was a source of inspiration, a great Nebraskan, and a friend to us all. Because of Bob Devaney, there is no place like Nebraska. He will be badly missed. 
Mr. President, I ask that Bob Reeves' tribute from the May 10 Lincoln Journal-Star and an editorial from the May 11 Omaha World-Herald be printed into the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, for most Americans a buck doesn't go very far. A dollar will not buy a cup of coffee at Starbucks, it will not buy a comic book at the 7-11, it will not buy a package of batteries at the True Value store, or even a gallon of gas at the Amoco station. But, at the FCC, a buck will buy a radio license to serve the city of St. Louis. 
On Friday, the FCC completed an auction of radio spectrum which should cause every American taxpayer to be concerned. This action yielded less than 1 percent of the amount anticipated. Rather than raising $1.8 billion as the Congress had expected, the FCC brought in only $13.6 million. 
Perhaps worse of all, several licenses were awarded to bidders for the incredible sum of $1. That's well below the bargain basement. Mike Mills of the Washington Post aptly observed that a sign should be put in front of the FCC auction headquarters advertising `everything for a buck.' One bidder won four licenses at a dollar a piece. Those licenses combined would allow services to reach 15 million people. Another bidder won the right to serve St. Louis, one of the largest cities in America for $1. It is as if we had returned to the days of license lotteries. That's one heck of a way to stretch a dollar. 
Radio spectrum is a national asset. It must be prudently managed. The taxpayers count on the Federal Communications Commission to allocate spectrum among and between various uses to assure that the public interest is served and to assure that those uses do not interfere with each other. 
In 1993, the Congress enacted legislation which revolutionized the way radio frequencies are allocated. After years of debate, the Congress took the step to authorized the Federal Communications Commission to use auctions to allocate licenses for radio spectrum. It was built on the premise that investors would pay for the right to offer new wireless communications services. 
Prior to 1993, licenses were awarded by lottery or by a comparative application process. In both cases, license winners would often sell their licenses soon after acquiring them to others for substantial sums. 
To cut out the middle man and give taxpayers a return from the valuable rights they were awarding, the Congress ordered the FCC to conduct auctions to award radio spectrum licenses. 
In general, this approach has worked very well. It has proven to be an efficient means of allocating scarce resources and it has reaped billions of dollars of deficit reduction for the American taxpayer. 
Unfortunately, something went wrong in this last auction. One problem was that the auction rules did not establish a minimum bid or a reserve price. That's how some lucky bidders won valuable licenses for a buck. 
Mr. President, I offer legislation today which will help ensure that taxpayers are protected in future FCC auctions. The importance of this legislation is heightened by the increasing congressional reliance on spectrum auctions in telecommunications and budget policy. The President's budget alone relies on $36 billion of revenues from spectrum auctions. 
The Reserve Price Act requires the FCC to set a minimum price for each unit auctioned. If no one bids the minimum, then what is not sold will be re-evaluated and placed in the next scheduled auction. With a reserve price system, taxpayers will be guaranteed that national assets are not sold for a song. 
The Chairman of the FCC reportedly said that the reason for the disappointing return from Friday's auction was the `the Congress got to greedy' with spectrum revenues. Perhaps, this auction was rushed. But with reserve prices, even a rushed auction would not have to be a disastrous auction. 
I urge my colleagues to review and support the Reserve Price Act. The American taxpayer deserves as much. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-2-19970429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the Department of Justice has approved the merger of the Bell Atlantic and Nynex Corporations. While this is a matter within the discretion and jurisdiction of the Department, I rise to express my concern and disappointment with this decision. 
With this merger, two strong potential competitors with two vibrant, rich markets have combined. 
Bell Atlantic/Nynex will control more than 25 percent of all access lines in the United States and would serve 26 million customers. The merger is the second largest in U.S. history and the new company will rank among the 25 largest U.S. companies. 
A little more than a year ago, the Congress enacted landmark legislation to open telecommunications markets to competition, preserve and advance universal service and spur private investment in telecommunication infrastructure. Over the last year, the Federal Communications Commission has worked overtime to implement the new law. It has been a daunting task. 
While the FCC struggles with implementation of the new law, it is important to remember that a key part of that legislation did not rely on regulation, it relied on the marketplace. The idea was to unleash pent up competitive forces among and between telecommunications companies. 
This transaction replaces the urge to compete with the urge to merge. 
To unshackle the restraints of the modified final judgment which controlled the break up of AT&T, the Congress gave regional Bell operating companies instant access to long-distance markets outside of their local service regions and access to long-distance markets inside their regions when they opened their markets to local competition as measured by the bill's competitive checklist. 
In addition to responding to the lure of long-distance markets, regional Bell operating companies and other local exchange carriers were expected to covet each other's markets. The attraction of serving markets like New York City, Baltimore, and Washington, DC, with local and long distance products was to be a key catalyst for breaking down barriers to competition. Who knows better what is needed to compete for local exchange customers in a new market better than another local exchange company? 
With this transaction, local competition and long-distance competition is lost. In addition, potential internet, video and broad-band competition has disappeared. 
The promise of the new law was that competition, not consolidation would bring new services at lower prices to consumers. Where competition failed to advance service and restrain prices, universal service support would assure that telephone rates and services were comparable in rural and urban areas. 
When large telecommunications companies combine, they not only eliminate the potential of competition with each other in each other's markets, but they create a market power which may be capable of resisting competition from others. They also create the possibility of an unequal bargaining power when they compete with or deal with small, independent and new carriers. 
A strong role for the Department of Justice was my No. 1 cause when the full Senate considered the Telecommunications Act. I supported final passage of the law because the conference committee bolstered the Department's authority as compared to the Senate version of the bill. The legislation relied on the existing, strong antitrust powers of the Department of Justice. It also removed the FCC's ability to bypass Department of Justice antitrust review. 
As we measure progress against promise, it is vitally important that the Congress have sufficient information to assure that those powers are sufficient to promote competition, affordable prices and universal service. 
Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today to monitor the progress of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. This bill instructs the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, in consultation with the Federal Communications Commission, the Department of Justice, other executive branch agencies and State regulatory utility commissions to issue an annual report to the Congress on telecommunications services in America. 
The report would review available information and consider at a minimum the level of competition, the provision of universal service in telecommunications markets, mergers among telecommunications providers and their effect, employment in the American telecommunications industry and the affordability of residential rates for telecommunications services. The report will also make legislative and policy recommendations to the Congress and the President. 
 Mr. President, I believe that if properly implemented, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 can deliver on its promises of competition, affordable rates, universal service, jobs, and investment. I am not prepared to recommend major change to the 1996 law, but I am prepared to argue for a higher level of competitive vigilance by this Congress and the executive branch.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970424</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today in support of striking condition 33 from the resolution of ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention. Condition 33 would bar the United States from ratifying the convention until the President can certify with high confidence that we have the capability to detect, within 1 year of a violation, the illicit production or storage of a single metric ton of chemical agent. As the authors of this condition fully realize, this standard is unattainable and would effectively bar the United States from participation in the CWC forever. 
Mr. President, I do not come to the floor as the vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee to say to my colleagues that this treaty is absolutely verifiable. The distinguished chairman of the committee indicated that Mr. Tenet, Acting Director of Central Intelligence, said it will be difficult to verify and quoted him as saying it would be easy to cheat. What he did not do, regrettably, is go on with the follow-on quote. The next sentence in his answer was, `But, in the absence of the tools the convention gives us, it will be much harder for us to apprise you'--meaning the committee--`and apprise the military and policymakers of where we think we are in the world with regard to these developments.' 
Let me be clear. The United States has made a decision that we are going to destroy our chemical weapons and try to lead the world in the elimination of chemical weapons. That is what this policy is all about. We didn't have this treaty presented to us. We made a conscious decision to eliminate our own chemical weapons and then try to develop a regimen that enables us to identify and detect as much as possible. Our Director of Central Intelligence, as well as our military, has indicated to us that this treaty will increase the identification that we are able to do and increase the likelihood that we will be able to end up with the result being that we have no chemical weapons in any military arsenal on this planet. 
No treaty is absolutely verifiable. Condition 33 make verification more difficult by setting a level of identification, we do not need to benefit from the convention. Far more important to our security are the improvements to our identification efforts we stand to gain under the CWC. 
Verification is a political decision made by policymakers. To make this decision, our intelligence agencies will need to provide evidence to support a conclusion made by policymakers. The benefits we will receive under the CWC come from our increased ability to identify whether a nation is developing, producing, and storing chemical weapons. Under the CWC's routine and challenge inspections, we will be better able to identify the storage and destruction of declared chemical weapon stocks. We will also be better able to identify a nation's attempt to develop the infrastructure to handle chemical weapons and any military training in the use of these weapons. 
U.S. intelligence officials have stated that the CWC will add to their monitoring tools to counter the chemical weapons threat. Data declarations will provide evidence of compliance or non-compliance, routine inspections make it more difficult and costly to use legitimate facilities to produce chemical weapons, and challenge inspections will give the United States the opportunity to seek further indications and evidence under the CWC. 
In addition, the CWC will help stymie chemical weapons development by non-signatory, rogue nations by restricting trade in key precursor chemicals to non-parties. Acquisition efforts for chemicals, technology, and equipment by non-signatories will provide tip-offs to pursue compliance concerns with parties who may be the source of the materials. 
These are real benefits to our identification efforts that will help ensure the safety of our troops and citizens. However, if we impose an impossible standard of verification and fail to ratify the CWC, we will lose these benefits. 
Further, condition 33 creates an arbitrary definition of what is a `militarily significant' amount of chemical weapons. This condition deems one metric ton of chemical weapons to be a threat to our military. But General Shalikashvili, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has testified that `a militarily significant quantity of chemical weapons is situationally dependent.' It depends on the terrain, the weather, the number of troops, the type of chemicals used, how the chemicals are delivered, and the chemical weapons defensive system of the targeted forces. He stated that, `The quantity is totally scenario dependent, and it would be difficult to cite a specific amount as militarily significant.' 
During the Iran-Iraq war, both sides used tens of tons against each other without altering the course of the war. The Defense Department found that it would take several hundred to a thousand tons to seriously disrupt U.S. logistics in a war; and the United States's own stockpile of chemical weapons, which we are committed to destroy with or without the CWC, is about 30 thousand tons. One metric ton of chemical weapons, while still posing a horrible threat under some conditions, in no way is a militarily significant threat to our national security. 
Without the CWC, chemical weapons production and stockpile on a small or grant scale will still be an acceptable practice. Under the CWC, not only will this no longer be acceptable, but we will have additional tools in our arsenal to identify chemical weapons programs. Since we will have to monitor this threat whether or not we join the CWC, our security interests are improved under the treaty rather than without it. 
This condition must be removed from the resolution if the United States is to participate in the Chemical Weapons Convention. Therefore, Mr. President, I support striking condition 33 from Executive Resolution 75. 
Mr. President, and colleagues, I believe strongly that this particular condition, regardless of how you feel about the treaty, sets an unrealistic level of requirement for verification, and under no circumstances are we going to be able to verify a ton of chemical weapons under the evaluations of the military. We do not need to accept this kind of arbitrary standard. 
Mr. President, regardless of whether or not you are going to vote for or against this treaty in the end, I urge my colleagues to vote to strike condition 33.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970423</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Chemical Weapons Convention. While some of my colleagues may have other means of measuring this convention, I believe when we consider any arms control treaty, the main concern must be how it will affect our national security. I support this treaty because, on balance, our Nation's security will be vastly improved in a world where chemical weapons are outlawed than in a world where the possession of these horrible weapons remains an acceptable practice. 
I believe it is important for all in this Chamber and for the public at large to realize that today the United States is committed to destroying all of our chemical weapons. Under a law passed by Congress and signed by President Reagan in 1985, we will destroy all of our chemical weapons stockpile by the year 2004. Further, in 1991 President Bush committed the United States to banning chemical weapons and foreswore their use even in retaliation upon the Chemical Weapons Treaty entering into force. 
Many of those who have spoken out against this treaty imply that possession of chemical weapons is the only deterrent against a chemical weapons attack by an adversary. However, in the judgment of our political and military leaders, our Nation does not require chemical weapons to defend our Nation. In fact, the United States has already begun the process of destroying all our chemical weapons. Our Nation reserves the right to retaliate against a chemical weapons attack with overwhelming conventional force or any other means at our disposal. The United States can and will defend itself against any foe armed with a weapon of mass destruction. We do not need these ghastly weapons to ensure the safety of our military personnel and our Nation. 
Mr. President, I also believe it is important to note this treaty was negotiated and signed under two Republican Presidents and transmitted for ratification under a Democratic President. The Chemical Weapons Convention is an example of how U.S. foreign policy can be bipartisan and how both parties can act outside the shadow of political maneuvering when it is in the best interests of our Nation. Presidents Reagan, Bush, and Clinton realized the benefits we receive under a treaty banning the possession of chemical weapons could far outweigh any costs incurred by our industries and Nation. 
No treaty is perfect. As with other treaties, the Senate has included conditions to the resolution of ratification which I believe strengthen this accord. But opponents of the convention have added five conditions meant not to improve but to kill the treaty. These five provisions must be struck from the treaty if we are to receive the national security benefits the CWC offers our Nation. 
The opposition to this treaty centers on three questionable and contradictory points. First, opponents state that since this treaty is not absolutely verifiable, the U.S. Senate should not ratify it. Second, contradicting the first point, opponents state this treaty's verification regime, while not strict enough, nevertheless places too much of a burden on our chemical industry. And, third, opponents state that since rogue nations may either not join the Chemical Weapons Convention or will not comply with the treaty once they 
become signatories, this treaty does not further our national security interests. I believe they are wrong on all points. 
No treaty--be it an arms control treaty, a trade treaty, or a humanitarian treaty--is completely verifiable. If absolute verifiability is the marker, no treaty could attain that ideal and our Nation would never experience the varied benefits we now gain from treaties such as the SALT Treaties, the START Treaties, GATT, NAFTA, the Convention on Fishing, or the Convention on Literary and Artistic Copyrights. Absolute verification should not be the measure of the CWC or any other treaty. Instead of insisting on absolute verification, our Nation has realized the strength of a treaty lies in the enforcement of the treaty and the measure to be taken if a party violates a treaty. America's treaties work because our treaty partners know the full power of the United States lies behind the conventions and we do not hesitate to protect our national interests by enforcing their provisions. 
When considering ratification of an arms control treaty, the question must be whether on balance the verification system is strong enough to significantly increase our national security. It is a simple fact that the verification measures included in this treaty are the most stringent and most intrusive of any multilateral arms control agreement currently in place. While still not powerful enough to allow searches of every warehouse, laboratory, or garage in the world, the means to be employed under the CWC are the most thorough and most rational ever to be included in a multilateral international agreement. 
The Reagan, Bush, and Clinton administrations all realized the nature of chemical weapons and their production created the need for a stringent system to verify compliance with the CWC provisions. And yet, some safeguards and limitations on the verification system would have to be put in place in order to protect companies engaged in legitimate chemicals from unwarranted hardships. Under President Bush's direction, the proper balance was struck between the strength and rigors of a verification regime on one hand and the intrusiveness of that same system on our industry and Nation on the other. Under the Chemical Weapons Convention, measures are in place which will severely increase the likelihood an illicit producer of chemical weapons will be caught while ensuring that any company that produces or uses potentially dangerous chemicals will not be unnecessarily burdened. 
Mr. President, some opponents argue that the treaty has it wrong both ways--they claim it is not intrusive enough to be completely verifiable and also claim the costs incurred by industry are too great under the verification regime. While the nature of all treaties makes them correct on the former point, since no treaty can reasonably be considered absolutely verifiable, the Chemical Manufacturers Association, which represents hundreds of chemical companies, and hundreds of individual chemical companies on their own have expressed their support for this treaty. 
If the vast majority of companies that produce or use chemicals pronounce their support for this agreement, I do not believe we should claim the treaty is unduly burdensome on these companies. They know what is in their own interest and they have stated their support for the Chemical Weapons Convention. 
Opponents also argue that since rogue nations can be expected not to join in the CWC or will not comply with its provisions the United States should not endorse this treaty. This argument overlooks the fact that even if the Chemical Weapons Convention does not enter into force these same rogue nations can develop and produce chemical weapons. Without the CWC we will still face this same threat. 
Yet, if we ratify the CWC and are vigorous in its enforcement, the United States will have a much improved ability to identify clandestine chemical weapons programs. The nature of chemical weapons make it possible to produce them in facilities as small as a high school laboratory or even a garage. Because these weapons of mass destruction can be produced in small areas, the intelligence community today faces extreme difficulties in locating programs already underway in rogue nations. However, as the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence noted in its September 1994 report on this issue, under the Chemical Weapons Convention, the United States Government will gain important new access to useful information, relevant to potential CWC threats to the United States, that would not otherwise be obtainable. As Acting Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet told the Intelligence Committee on February 5 of this year, the CWC will give our intelligence community more information and more tools to use in our efforts to combat those who would use these horrible weapons. 
The Chemical Weapons Convention's regular inspection process and its ability to perform challenge inspections on short notice are very powerful means of catching parties breaking the treaty. The convention also includes varied reporting requirements on the production and use of toxic agents and precursor chemicals which may help the intelligence agencies to locate clandestine production of chemical weapons. If the Chemical Weapons Convention is ratified and we use it to our advantage, the intelligence community will have another important tool with which to fight the battle against these weapons. If we do not ratify the convention, we will forgo a better chance to win a battle we must fight whether or not this treaty is in effect. 
The CWC will help protect our citizens by increasing the likelihood that a potential cheater would be caught under its inspection processes. But the CWC helps our national security in other ways as well. Three years after entry into force, the Chemical Weapons Convention prohibits parties from exporting high risk precursor and toxic chemicals to countries not belonging to the CWC. This will further limit the ability of nonsignatory countries to acquire chemicals which could be turned into a lethal gas. Finally, the power of international law created by the CWC against the possession of chemical weapons will assist our own Nation's continuing efforts against this abominable class of weapons. 
Taken together, the benefits we gain from ratifying the Chemical Weapons Convention far outweigh the minimal costs of implementing this treaty. The strict verification regime, increased opportunities for our intelligence agencies, the prohibition of exports to nonmember nations, and the force of international law complementing the United States' individual efforts will help protect our citizens and our national interests. 
We have already made the decision that possession and use of chemical weapons is not in the security interests of our Nation. We have determined the United States has the means and the will to protect our forces and our Nation without this type of weapon. It is time now to compel the other nations of the world to abide by these same rules. 
Mr. President, I have weighed the effects of the Chemical Weapons Convention on our national security and I believe our Nation is safer with this treaty than without it. It is my hope my colleagues will also realize that our national security interests lie in ratification, not in maintaining the status quo of a world where possession of chemical weapons remains acceptable under international law. I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I do not intend to support this constitutional amendment. During previous debates on this issue, I have said that I believe that an amendment dictating a balanced budget does not belong in our Constitution but that the path to balance belongs in our laws. I continue to believe that. And, I hope I am not being too optimistic when I say that I honestly believe we have an opportunity to set our budget on the path to balance this year through legislation and we have the chance to do so in a reasoned and bipartisan way. 
I believe it is important to balance the budget as a way to promote economic growth. And any effort to achieve a balanced budget must be done fairly and equitably. But I'm not convinced that the constitutional amendment before us will ensure a budget balanced fairly or a budget that will ensure economic growth. 
In particular, I do not think it is wise to require a three-fifths vote to waive this amendment in times of economic emergency. This gives entirely too much power to larger population States in the House and would hurt smaller States like my home State of Nebraska. In addition, the national security waiver provision in this amendment is too restrictive. And, I do not think it is a good idea to allow Congress to rely on estimates to determine whether or not the budget is in balance. As previous experience has shown us, when you lead with estimates, gimmicks are soon to follow. 
Still, even if we were voting on some other variation of this amendment, I'm not persuaded a constitutional amendment is the best way to mend our budget woes. I still believe that if we can succeed through a statute rather than through a constitututional amendment, we should leave the Constitution alone. 
All of this being said, I do not question the intentions of the authors of this amendment. Given our track record on living within our means, there are good arguments to be made for this amendment. I have long said that as 1 of the 535 Members of Congress we can, and should, get down to the work of crafting a reasoned, bipartisan balanced budget plan. But we have not managed to do so. We have not managed to muster the political will to tackle some of the tougher issues that stand in the way of a credible path to balance. We have not managed to talk in a meaningful way about how to control our entitlement spending and how to prevent that spending from consuming an ever-larger share of our Federal budget as time goes by. Absent change, a full 70 percent of the Federal budget will be consumed by mandatory spending and interest on the debt by the year 2000 and that percentage will continue to climb. That is a scary statistic. 
But I think, or at least I very much hope, that we are getting closer to having those conversations. Last year, I was part of the centrist coalition, a bipartisan group that included 11 Democrats and 11 Republicans. The coalition spent approximately 5 months putting together a balanced budget package which contained significant entitlement reform, a reasonable discretionary spending number and modest tax relief. The centrist package was offered as a substitute budget in May 1996 and received 46 votes in the Senate. As far as I am concerned, those 46 votes represent the start of a meaningful effort to balance the budget in a bipartisan, credible way. 
Regardless of how today's vote turns out, I hope we will not lose the will to move forward to balance the budget. If this amendment were to pass both Houses, I would hope that we would not use that passage as an excuse to delay balancing the budget while we wait to see if the amendment is ratified. And if this amendment fails, I hope that we--particularly people like me who maintain that we can balance the budget without this amendment--will redouble our efforts to get the budget on the path to balance in this Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to express my concern over bills introduced last Thursday, February 27, 1997 by the Senators from Vermont and Montana. These bills, the Encrypted Communications Privacy Act of 1997 and the Promotion of Commerce On-Line in the Digital Era Act of 1997, deal with the complex and controversial issue of encryption and the export of encryption products. I too am concerned over our Nation's policy regarding encryption, but I believe rash action on this issue at this time by Congress would be inappropriate. 
I agree with both Senator Burns and Leahy that digital communications, the internet, and the global information infrastructure are already revolutionizing the way we live and work. I also believe there is a need to ensure the security of private, commercial, and Government messages and information sent over global communication links and stored in computer databases. The information revolution is underway and technology is progressing at exponential rates. 
Nevertheless, Mr. President, our Nation still has needs that must be addressed. The same digital information, communication links, and computer memory that allows for great advances in personal convenience and entertainment, in commercial productivity and competitiveness, and in Government services and efficiencies can also be abused by individuals with other designs and intentions. Our society has entrusted its elected leaders and public servants to protect its citizens from such activities. Therefore, I think it is imperative that we study thoroughly how this proposed legislation will affect our Government's ability to fulfill its responsibilities. The National security and the ability to effectively enforce our extraterritorial laws is at stake. 
The executive branch is the part of our Government responsible for implementing and enforcing the laws of this Nation. For the past several years the administration has been involved in a dialog with industry leaders in an attempt to promote the use of encryption and expand exports while also protecting the legitimate needs of our Government to gain access with properly executed search warrants to communications. This is not done for nefarious intentions, as some have claimed. The negotiations took place because our Government is charged with fulfilling its responsibility to protect the lives and livelihood of all its citizens. 
But our concern for access to encrypted data extends beyond our shores. Our Nation faces threats from nations, groups, and individuals overseas. The United States' ability to counter and thwart these threats will likely be hampered if encryption products are allowed to be exported worldwide with unlimited strength or without key recovery provisions. 
 Mr. President, the administration has also been negotiating with other OECD nations regarding encryption policy. We are not the only nation which realizes the benefits and possible abuses of encryption products. Other nations are also considering how to ensure that their government needs and responsibilities are addressed in their encryption export and import policies. I do not believe our relations with other nations will be furthered if the administration's negotiations are undercut by unnecessary and potentially damaging congressional action. Further, the interests of our Nation's technology industry will not be advanced if other nations shut their borders to American encryption products. 
Today, many established software and hardware firms are successfully marketing encryption products with key recovery features here and abroad. The President has put forward a plan which in good faith attempts to balance our Nation's interests in commerce, security, and law enforcement. While other firms say the administration policy is untenable, these American companies are producing and selling advanced encryption products worldwide which meet both the needs of private commerce and industry, and the requirements of our Government. This suggests to me that the administration's policy not only can work, it is working. I believe Congress should let the administration's negotiations and policies on encryption go forward, to succeed or fail on their own merits. Mr. President, caution and careful study are in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-kerrey-ne-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I rise to support the confirmation of Rodney Slater to be the new Secretary of Transportation. Perhaps only the Secretary of Agriculture has as a profound effect on economy of my State as the Secretary of Transportation. 
As a large geography, small population State at the Nation's crossroads, Nebraska has a great deal at stake in America's transportation policy. Perhaps only the Secretary of Agriculture has as profound an effect on the economy of my State as the Secretary of Transportation. 
Coming from rural Arkansas, Rodney Slater understands the transportation problems of Nebraska and the Nation. He has demonstrated skill and vision as Administrator of the Federal Highways Administration. 
One of the most important bills the 105th Congress will consider is the reauthorization of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA). The new Secretary will lead the administration's efforts on this important bill. The Senate begins its work on the reauthorization of ISTEA with this confirmation. As the Senate debates the nomination of Rodney Slater to be Secretary of Transportation, I would like to take a few moments to discuss some of the transportation priorities I want our new Secretary and the Senate to consider. 
First, the new Surface Transportation law should promote a national transportation infrastructure which addresses rural and urban needs. That legislation must recognize that transportation investments in small population, crossroads States like Nebraska contribute to the productivity and efficiency of the entire nation. 
Second, ISTEA 2 should be truly intermodal by including an authorization for Amtrak, and assistance for communities dealing with an increasing density of rail traffic. The Congress has a tremendous opportunity to enhance safety where rails meet roads in America. 
Third, safety must remain the pre-eminent focus of transportation policy. In spite of long-term progress on the safety front, more than 41,000 Americans will die and more than 3 million Americans will be injured this year on the Nation's roads and highways. We can reduce that number by focusing much needed attention on two groups of drivers--Teenagers and repeat offenders. Traffic accidents are the leading cause of death among Americans ages 15-24. The reauthorization of ISTEA provides an opportunity to seriously address this problem. 
Fourth, in aviation, I applaud the Secretary-designate for his strong statement in support of the Essential Air Service Program. Air service is critical to the economic survival of many rural communities. Last year, the Congress solved the chronic funding problems of the Essential Air Service program. I am pleased that the Secretary-designate supports that action. 
Finally, Mr. President, I pledge to the new Secretary that I will continue to do everything I can to end the hemorrhage of the airways trust fund. The lapse of the aviation ticket tax is draining the trust fund at an astounding rate of $18-20 million a day. As a new member of the Finance Committee, I consider funding the Nation's investments in airport safety, security, and efficiency a top priority. I am proud that our committee yesterday took swift, bipartisan action on this important matter. 
Mr. President, with this confirmation, we begin work on the transportation policy for a new century. The Senate should not underestimate the importance of this task or the significance of this confirmation. Future employment, economic growth, international competitiveness, and national productivity are all at stake. I am confident that Rodney Slater understands the importance of his mission and I look forward to working with the new Secretary. 
Thank you, Mr. President.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

