<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this Congress has taken steps to significantly reduce the Federal judicial vacancy rate to its lowest level in almost a decade. As Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I am proud to boast about some of the successes that have been achieved this Congress by the Committee and Republican Senate. I also feel compelled to set the record straight that the Committee and Republican Senate this Congress have been dedicated and productive. 
One could speculate that if the Democrats controlled the Senate, more Clinton nominees would have been confirmed. But then again, maybe not. This Congress, the Committee held hearings for 111 out of 127 judicial nominees. Of the 16 nominees that did not have hearings, 3 withdrew from consideration. The Committee held 23 judicial, and an additional 8 non-judicial, nominations hearings for a total of 31 nominations hearings. In all, this Congress the Republican Senate confirmed 101 judicial nominees, which is well above the average confirmed over the last five Congresses, which is 96. Indeed, notwithstanding the rhetoric we often heard from the other side of the aisle, according to the Alliance for Justice, a liberal judicial watch group, almost 50% of the judges confirmed by the Republican Senate have been women and/or members of a minority group. 
The Republican Senate, by working in a fair and orderly manner, also reduced the vacancy rate of the Federal Judiciary to 5.9%--the lowest vacancy rate since the Judiciary was expanded in 1990. While considering this rate, keep in mind two things: first, that the Clinton Administration is on record as having stated that a vacancy rate just over 7% is virtual full-employment of the judiciary, and second, that the Clinton Administration did not get around to nominating anyone for 29 of the 50 vacant judgeships. To put it another way, this Administration failed to nominate anyone for almost 60% of the current judicial vacancies. Thus, the Republican Senate would have been precluded from filling every single judicial vacancy because it cannot confirm judges whose nominations it has not received. 
The accusation that the Republican Senate delays consideration of certain nominees is simply a ploy to divert attention away from the fact that qualified, non-controversial nominees, which constitutes the overwhelming majority of nominees, were confirmed promptly, usually by unanimous consent. Indeed, one need go no further than the high number of Clinton Administration nominees that were confirmed by this year's Republican Senate to determine whether their motives were anything but altruistic. 
Yes, there were some controversial nominees that did not move, and in fact, some of these nominees were forced to withdraw. But the confirmation process is not a numbers game, and I will not compromise the Senate's advice and consent function simply because the White House has sent us nominees that are either not qualified or controversial. There are a range of factors which make a nominee controversial or difficult to confirm, such as lack of experience or questionable information contained in materials not in the public domain or in their past records that may be at variance with the proper role of judges in society. But I assure you that gender, ethnicity, and race are not included in the determination. 
For me, the touchstones in evaluating the qualifications of a nominee are whether they are committed to upholding the rule of law and properly understand the limitations of the judicial role. The Senate has an obligation to the American people to review thoroughly the records of the nominees it receives to ensure that they are capable and qualified to serve as Federal judges and will not spend a lifetime career rendering politically motivated decisions. I would not, in good conscience, vote for the confirmation of any nominee whom I believed would abdicate his or her duty to interpret and enforce, and instead make, the laws of this Nation. 
As Committee Chairman, I take my role in the confirmation of judges very seriously, and would not allow irrelevant criteria to be analyzed in determining a nominee's fitness to sit on the Federal bench, practically speaking, for what amounts to life tenure. As a Senator, I take my role of advice and consent equally as serious and would not tolerate the disingenuous consideration of any nominee. 
The demagogues and naysayers can continue to impugn the purported secret motives of the Republicans and continue to malign those who exercise their Constitutional duty to thoroughly evaluate and review the complete record and background of each nominee before casting a vote in favor or in opposition thereto. And the Republican Senate will continue to plow ahead in the next Congress honorably and fairly discharging its Constitutional duties without wavering. However, I could not leave this Congress without congratulating my fellow Republican Senators, Senator Lott in particular, for all of their hard work and accomplishments in what, at times, has been a contentious atmosphere. Senator Lott has done his best and has acted in a fair and principled manner in processing these nominees. He is to be commended.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today the Senate will confirm the nomination of Edward J. Damich to be a judge on the Court of Federal Claims. Mr. Damich has been the Chief Intellectual Property Counsel to the Judiciary Committee since 1995. He has already had a distinguished career and is highly qualified to fill this challenging position. He received an A.B. degree from St. Stephen's College in 1970, a J.D. degree from the School of Law of Catholic University in 1976, and LL.M. and J.S.D. degrees from Columbia University School of Law. Upon his graduation from law school, he joined the faculty of the Delaware Law School of Widener University as a Professor of Law where he remained until 1984. From 1984-95, he was a Professor of Law at the George Mason University School of Law. During 1992-1993, Mr. Damich also served as a Commissioner of the Copyright Royalty Tribunal. 
Mr. Damich also has numerous accomplishments outside his professional career. He was named Outstanding Faculty Member in 1980 and 1984, and is listed in Who's Who in American Law. He has served as President of the National Federation of Croatian Americans and as a Board Member of the Washington Area Lawyers for the Arts. He is also widely published in both the acadmic and professional forums. 
His hard work and intellect has made him a true asset to the Committee, and his presence will be missed. I am confident that he will make a terrific judge, and I wish him all the luck in this very important stage of his career. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, 14 years ago, when I served as Chairman of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, I teamed up with Representative Henry Waxman, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health and the Environment of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to lead passage of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984. 
The bottom line of this law was to improve the health of the American people. The statute accomplishes this in two primary ways: First, it essentially created the market for more moderately priced generic drugs by allowing generic manufacturers to demonstrate their equivalence to pioneer products without duplicating all of the original safety and efficacy data. Relieved of this costly burden, generic drug firms can provide their products at competitive prices which are attractive to many consumers. 
Second, pioneer drug firms became eligible for restoration of some of the patent term lost due to the extensive FDA review of safety and efficacy that all new drugs must undergo. This partial restoration of patent term--up to five years in certain circumstances when such restoration would not result in a greater than 14 year effective patent life--allowed pioneer drug firms additional time to recoup the enormous investments required to bring a new drug to market. This helped attract the investment capital that pioneer firms need to develop the next generation of life-saving drugs. 
Consumers benefit from this win-win dynamic because the American public gets both new drugs and competitively priced off-patent medications. 
As we start the 15th year since the enactment of this important health and consumer law, we have a generic pharmaceutical sector that has developed into an integral part of the health care system, which together with innovator pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies lead the world in the development and marketing of new health care products. 
While I think that the track record of the Hatch-Waxman Act is enviable, I hope that we can even do better for the American public in the future. 
Accordingly, I intend to devote time during the next Congress to begin the necessary examination into how we can make changes in the law that will increase our ability to produce both the innovative products that we have come to expect and the lower priced generic products that are so attractive to the family budget. 
I intend for this examination to include a serious study of how well the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Extension Act has functioned over the past 14 years, whether the Act has fulfilled its initial promise, how the courts have interpreted the Act, and indeed, how it has been implemented. I hope to work closely in this endeavor with my good friend and colleague Senator Jim Jeffords, Chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee, which shares jurisdiction over the Act with the Judiciary Committee. 
A major test of such a review will be to assemble a package of initiatives that will retain the delicate but essential balance between the innovator and generic sectors of the industry. This will be a difficult task but it is a worthwhile endeavor for the American people. 
Even during this session of Congress, some have proposed changes to our nation's drug discovery laws. There has, for example, been some discussion about changing one of the most controversial provisions of the 1984 law--the so-called Bolar Amendment. Section 271(e) of the Title 35, contains language to overturn a 1984 Federal Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in the case of Roche v. Bolar Pharmaceutical Co., which held that conducting the tests required to secure approval of generic copies of pioneer drugs constituted patent infringement. Section 271(e)(1) establishes an exception to patent infringement laws to authorize generic pharmaceutical companies to conduct testing on patent approved pharmaceutical products for purpose of filing an abbreviated new drug application. 
Recently, the application of section 271(e)(1) has been a matter of some controversy in an on-going legal battle between two pioneer drug firms, one company holding existing patent protection and FDA product approval and the other company asserting its own patent rights and seeking pioneer rather than generic approval from FDA. While ultimately the courts must decide whether this is a case of patent infringement, it is clear that this is not merely a simple, garden variety patent infringement case because it also raises the question of precisely what type activities that section 271(e)(1) should allow, and should not allow, in the context of developing not only generic drugs but new drugs and biologicals that they potentially compete directly with. 
While I do not take a position on the merits of the actual patent rights in dispute in the current Amgen v. Hoechst Marion Roussel litigation, I must say this case is of some concern to me, especially with regard to court's initial findings which are not consistent with, and broaden, Congress' intent in enacting 271(e). 
I do believe Congress would be wise to reassess the breadth of section 271(e)(1) in light of this and a number of court decisions since 1984 that have tended to expand the scope of this provision. One case in particular is the 1990 Supreme Court decision in Lilly v. Medtronic. 
My position on these questionable decisions has been clear for some time. I was, in fact, a signatory to an amicus brief in the Lilly case that argued for a somewhat narrower interpretation of 271(e)(1) than has evolved in the courts. 
One proposal worthy of serious consideration is to more clearly limit the applicability of 271(e)(1) to exclude testing and other activities necessary for approval of NDAs and BLAs from the patent infringement exemption. Of course, the 271(e)(1) question is only one of many issues that will undoubtedly be proper for further discussion in the next Congress. 
Some are concerned about whether drugs that were already in FDA review at the time of enactment of Hatch-Waxman (the `pipeline drugs') have received adequate and fair patent protections in view of subsequent delays that were encountered. Congress should undertake complete review of this proposal during our study of Waxman-Hatch next year, as I believe the evidence will show that there are inequalities we should take steps to remediate. 
Others are concerned about the application of the 180 day generic drug exclusivity rule in the aftermath of the Mova decision. Indeed, some are advocating report language that will give FDA new leeway to adopt a `first-to-succeed' in patent litigation approach rather than the `first-to-file' an ANDA that the courts have found. 
Frankly, I have concerns about the current outcome whereby some ANDA applicants appear to be handsomely rewarded by pioneer firms for not selling generic competitors. 
Still others advocate in the spirit of international harmonization adopting the European rule of a 10 year marketing exclusivity period for all new drugs. And others point out that the advent of the new GATT-required 20 year from filing patent term may change the traditional incentives in coordinating PTO and FDA approvals. 
It is time, some argue, to do away completely with current rule by which only 5 years of patent life may be restored to compensate time lost at FDA and only if the effective patent term does not exceed 14 years. Some would also like to revise the rule that limits patent restoration for time lost during the IND phase in a for each 2-days lost, 1-day restored ratio. 
On the generic side of the industry, there is concern that as NDA approvals speed up due to user fees, generic approvals continue to lag and take much longer than NDAs. There is also great frustration about what some describe as challenges to the bioequivalence of generic products that are more a delaying and harassing tactic than a bona fide scientific dispute. 
And then, there are those in the generic industry who believe that FDA's Orange Book, which records the patents in effect for FDA approved drugs, should be renamed as the `Evergreen Book'! 
So there are many issues that merit consideration as we reassess the adequacy of the laws pertaining to the generic and pioneer sectors of the pharmaceutical industry. 
Our focus should be on ascertaining what steps we can take that will most benefit the American people in terms of providing incentives both for the development of new drugs and the production of competitively priced generic products. This has and will continue to require a delicate balance. There is an inherent tension between the twin goals discovering the next generation of drugs while at the same time providing generic versions of today's medications. 
My goal is to reconcile these somewhat conflicting but wholly meritorious goals in the interest of the American people, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate on this complex issue next year.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I introduce S. Res. 314 which expresses the sense of the Senate regarding the authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make adjustments in payments made to skilled nursing facilities under the Medicare program. 
As my colleagues are aware, pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Congress directed the Health Care Financing Administration to create a new prospective payment system, or PPS, for Medicare-certified skilled nursing facilities, or SNFs, as they are called. 
Skilled nursing facilities are now in the process of moving from the historical cost-based reimbursement system to the new prospective payment system. 
This new system combines costs associated with nursing services, capital investment, and other medical services bundled together and then adjusted to reflect the needs of the patients. 
Congress rightly sought this new system as a way of getting skilled nursing facility operators to manage both the quality and costs of health care for seniors qualified under Medicare. 
As this system has been developed quickly since the enactment of the BBA, there has been a problem identified with adjustments for services considered `non-therapy' services. 
These include respiratory therapy, pharmaceutical products, parenteral and enteral products, laboratory and x-ray services, and other covered medical supplies. 
While I believe that HCFA has done a remarkable job in getting this system in place over the past year, I am concerned that the adjustment in payment for these specific services has not yet been developed. 
This is especially true for a patient who is very ill--those with multiple disease conditions treated in a SNF. There is simply not adequate provisions for ensuring that the prospective payment made each day appropriately reflects the higher medical costs that these patients may need. 
As a result of this new system, many nursing homes cannot afford to treat certain types of patients. That was never our intent. 
HCFA officials have acknowledged that they needed more data to fix the problem. They commissioned a study last year to assist them to make corrections. 
However, the data was not yet available in time for the first year to implement some corrections. While I am certain that HCFA will correct this system, I want to ensure that services to our most vulnerable seniors in nursing homes getting complex medical services will continue to get their care. 
I do not want bureaucratic delays in any way to impede their care. 
The PPS theory of paying according to average does not work when the rates are not based on solid data and the case-mix adjustment for non-therapy ancillaries is based on very little data. This is obviously not what Congress intended with the BBA. 
In March, the Medicare Payment Assessment Commission advised the Congress that 
`the RUG-III system may not adequately differentiate among Medicare SNF patients . . . this may lead to significant overpayment and under payment for patients within a RUG group.' 
In September, the Appropriations Committee report for the Department of Health and Human Services included the following: 
The Committee has heard concerns regarding the equity of the new Medicare SNF prospective payment system as it relates to nontherapy ancillaries. The demonstration upon which the new system was based did not include this class of items and services. Due to the lack of sufficient data to make these changes, the new system may provide a windfall for some providers while seriously impairing the ability of others to treat patients requiring more intensive care. Therefore, the Committee urges HCFA to reexamine this policy and make budget-neutral changes this year to assure continued access to services for high cost patients pending the gathering of sufficient data on which to base permanent reforms. 
Mr. President, unless relief is provided and this anomaly in the payment system is corrected, a major impediment will remain for certain patients with high non-therapy ancillary costs to receive Medicare services in nursing facilities. 
An immediate transitional modification is needed before irreparable harm is done to quality care and access for high costs patients. Some facilities have already begun PPS coverage although HCFA apparently will not begin making actual PPS payments until December, or later. However, on January 1 about 60 percent of the SNFs will begin coverage under the PPS. 
We must, therefore, develop longer term solutions for these crucial services, but first we must do no harm in the interim. 
Providers can quickly change operations to maximize light care and minimize heavy care. Specialty staff, such as respiratory therapists, will be let go; special physical plant and equipment, such as air flow equipment for `clean room' level infection control will be dismantled; and hospital referral arrangements will be changed. 
Accordingly, I am submitting today S. Res. 314 expressing the sense of the Senate that the Secretary, pursuant to section 1888(e)(4)(G)(i), has the authority to provide for an appropriate adjustment to account for case mix which reflects a patient's medical needs requiring non-therapy ancillary services. 
HCFA has acknowledged the shortcomings of the current RUG-III system. The RUG-III demonstration project had treated these costs as a pass-through because the system did not have the data available to include such costs. 
My resolution will clarify and reaffirm Congressional intent that the Secretary has the administrative flexibility to make appropriate adjustments to the case-mix of SNFs to reflect the costs of these services. 
One approach, which accommodates HCFA's operational impediment of Year 2000 computer software problems, would be to make payment adjustments to reflect the relative resource utilization of non-therapy ancillaries by different patient types based on a SNF's cost report for the first year under the PPS. 
The resolution calls upon the Secretary to gather sufficient data on the provisions of non-therapy ancillaries in order to develop the appropriate adjustments. And, it also urges the Secretary to periodically report to Congress on the development of the appropriate adjustment. 
Mr. President, this issue is one of quality and access for America's seniors to community based skilled care. 
And, while it was my hope that the Senate could pass this resolution today, I trust my remarks and the language of the resolution will serve to further define the complex issues associated with this important matter. 
I am encouraged that the distinguished Chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth, and the distinguished Minority Member, Senator Moynihan, have indicated their interest, and look forward to working with them early next year to address this issue in the Finance Committee.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I concur with my colleagues. This is a very important tax credit for alternative fuels. It is an issue of fairness, not one of corporate welfare. 
Earlier this year I, along with 18 of my colleagues, introduced a bill that would extend for eight months the placed-in-service date for coal and biomass facilities. The need still exists to extend this date and I am very disappointed that this was not included. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I suppose that it is appropriate that we are passing this bill just a week before Halloween. It seems as though we have spent the better part of five days trying to unmask its provisions. And, some of the sections have been like ghosts--first you see them, now you don't. 
I confess that I share the frustration voiced by many of my colleagues yesterday from both sides of the aisle about this extremely unorthodox process. I suppose it is somewhat reassuring that Senators on both sides of the aisle are similarly put off by the process because perhaps then we will not inflict it on ourselves or the American people next year. 
Let me start with the fact that, at least technically, it is out of order to authorize on an appropriations bill. We have from time to time bent that rule--sometimes quite liberally. But, today, we not only bent it, we smashed it to smithereens. I admit to having tried to amend appropriations bills with authorizations during my tenure in the Senate, but I am quickly coming around to the notion that we must get back to a stricter adherence to that particular rule of the Senate. 
One of the reasons for this rule, in addition to being able to control the appropriations process, is to ensure that the authorizing committees are not circumvented. The authorizing committees of the Senate have developed expertise on the various policy issues we must consider and act upon, and I believe that we do not fully carry out our duty to citizens and taxpayers when we fail to vet thoroughly these proposed changes in law. 
I am not talking only about the Judiciary Committee, although I do feel strongly that we could have provided constructive input. The authorizing committees play an important role in policy development. 
And, I think it is essential that we assert right here and now that national policy is not just about money. While the appropriations aspects of Congress' job is certainly of utmost importance, the authorizing process shapes the programs and establishes the rules for the expenditure of federal funds. One function is as important as the other. I do hope that this major bypass of the authorizing committees will not become habit-forming. 
Second, we should all be concerned about the perception that this backwards procedure--one in which we are considering conference reports on bills that have not even passed the Senate yet--will set a precedent for the future. 
Mr. President, I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me in a sweeping denunciation of this as anything other than a one-time event. We cannot consider this omnibus, catch-all, 11th hour approach to be a model for how to extract ourselves from the dangerous prospect of an imminent government shutdown. 
And, by the term`we,' I also include the President of the United States. I would like to send a message to President Clinton right now. Don't try playing this game of legislative chicken again. I may resolve much differently. 
Third, while I appreciate the effort of Senators Lott and Stevens and others to ensure that this bill does not make permanent changes in the budget rules or lift the budget caps we so painstakingly negotiated in the Balanced Budget Act, the bill before us takes the unheard of step of designating tax breaks as `emergencies.' 
While I strongly support the idea of tax relief--indeed, I have strongly supported each one of the items in this tax package for farmers--I am not so sure that we should be starting down the steep and slippery slope of using the emergency designation in this way. I hope that we will all look at this as one-of-a-kind occurrence and not as a new procedural loophole that we continue to use in the future. 
Fourth, Mr. President, I am also disappointed by the fact that we are using a portion of the surplus to pay for additional spending. I supported the pledge of saving the surplus for Social Security and thought that we should move toward that goal. This bill, however, breaks that promise. 
Last January, one of the President's most memorable lines from his State of the Union speech was `Save Social Security first.' In reality, however, he has supported, practically insisted, on using that same surplus for more government spending. I applaud Senator Lott and Speaker Gingrich for keeping this encroachment on the surplus and Social Security to a minimum. 
I hope that during the next Congress, we can resurrect that bipartisan spirit of fiscal integrity and responsibility we shared to get the budget balanced in order to keep the budget balanced. If we continue to feed the voracious appetite of big government at the trough of the so-called surplus, we will not have that surplus for long. 
If there is one thing that we should all be united in, it is maintaining a balanced budget. This is perhaps the most important thing that any Congress can do. It is critical for the future growth of the U.S. economy, increases in the standard of living for our workers, and, indeed, the very future of the country. 
Mr. President, the unorthodox process is certainly one issue, but it is not the only or even the principal issue. There are substantive problems with this bill as well. 
Let me begin with a provision that is under the jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committee. I must speak out against inclusion of Title One of the euphemistically entitled `Citizens Protection Act.' This ill-advised provision passed the House as an amendment to 
the House Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations bill but it never passed the Senate. Indeed, it has been opposed by a bipartisan majority of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Under the guise of setting ethical standards for federal prosecutors and other attorneys for the government, it will severely hamper the ability of the Department of Justice to enforce federal law and cede authority to regulate the practice of law by federal prosecutors in our federal courts to more than fifty state bar associations. Indeed, this provision alone caused me to consider voting against this conference report. 
The sponsor of this measure is Representative Joe McDade, a man who, by all accounts, was wrongly prosecuted by zealous federal prosecutors and who has been vindicated. I have great respect for Representative McDade and sympathy for the objectives he seeks to protect. 
Many in Congress and citizens around the country have been, at one time or another, the subject of unfounded ethical or legal charges. No one wants more than I to ensure that all federal prosecutors are held to the highest ethical standards. That is why the Judiciary Committee staff met with Congressman McDade and his staff. That is why we proposed a more narrow, workable version of his ethics amendment. That is why I proposed that we establish a Commission to investigate alleged cases of wrongdoing by federal prosecutors and to make recommendations to Congress. 
Unfortunately, the House Leadership and others did not accept my proposal. Instead, I fear that, in a understandable desire to redeem those who have been wronged by zealous prosecutors, we have included a provision which is far too broad. 
In its most relevant part, the so-called McDade provision states that an `attorney for the government shall be subject to State laws and rules . . . governing attorneys in each state where such attorney engages in that attorney's duties, to the same extent and in the same manner as other attorneys in that state.' This may sound innocuous, until one realizes why state laws and rules governing the conduct of attorneys exist in the first place--to protect the integrity of the civil and criminal legal systems in the state and govern the practice of law in the courts of that state. It is this very purpose which makes inappropriate the blanket application to federal attorneys in federal court of all state bar rules. 
The federal government has a responsibility and the legitimate lead role in the investigation and prosecution of complex multistate terrorism, drug, fraud or organized crime conspiracies, or in rooting out and punishing fraud against federally funded programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. It is in these very cases that the McDade provision will have its most pernicious effect. 
Federal attorneys investigating and prosecuting these cases, which frequently encompass three, four, or five states, will be subject to the differing state and local rules of each of those states, plus the District of Columbia, if they are based here. Their decisions will be subject to review by the bar and ethics review boards in each of these states at the whim of defense counsel, even if the federal attorney is not licensed in that state. Practices concerning contact with unrepresented persons or the conduct of matters before a grand jury, perfectly legal and acceptable in federal courts, will be subject to state bar review and, as a result, could put an end to some undercover, federal investigations. And the very integrity and success of sensitive investigations could be compromised by the release of information during the course of these reviews. This provision is also an open invitation to clever defense attorneys to stymie federal criminal or civil investigations by bringing frivolous state bar claims. 
Mr. President, the McDade provision is opposed by Attorney General Reno and by the Administration. It is opposed by a bipartisan group of six former Attorneys General of the United States from the Nixon, Carter, Reagan and Bush administrations. It is opposed by the Director of the FBI, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. It is opposed by law enforcement organizations such as the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the National District Attorneys Association and the Federal Criminal Investigators Association. The National Victims Center opposes it on behalf of the victims of crime. And this provision is vigorously opposed by an overwhelming bipartisan majority of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the committee with jurisdiction over this matter. The Committee's Ranking Member Senator Leahy has opposed this provision. Former Committee Chairmen Senators Kennedy and Thurmond, and Committee members Senators Sessions, Kohl, DeWine, Durbin, Abraham, Feingold, Thompson, and Feinstein have also written in opposition. 
I would note, however, that in response to our concerns, the Leadership has inserted a provision which will delay the implementation of this provision for six months. At the very least, this will give the Department of Justice and others the opportunity to educate the Congress as to the serious effect this blanket provision will have on law enforcement. It is my hope and expectation that, during the next six months, we will be able to develop a more workable and effective solution. 
In addition, the so-called 100,000 Teachers program so trumpeted by President Clinton will do virtually nothing for Utah. As if the concept of this teacher hiring program would be any more effective than the 100,000 cops program, we are appropriating $1.2 billion at the insistence of President Clinton and under threat of government shutdown. 
Well, Mr. President, Utah is continually disadvantaged by the use of the Title I funding formula, which is how this money will be predominantly allocated among the states. Under this formula, we are year after year punished for our demographics. We will be lucky to eke enough out of this grant to hire a handful of teachers per district. And, the irony is that Utah ranks among those states with the highest average class sizes. This program claims reduction of class size to be its raison d'etre. I think not. 
Furthermore, Mr. President, the President had an opportunity to reward states that were taxing themselves heavily for education and that were addressing the needs of poorer and rural school districts with state funds. Did he support an appropriation for the effort and equity component of the Title I formula? No, he did not. 
And, what happened to ed-flex, one of the more innovative, albeit common sense, 
educational reforms we have seen in recent years? We are told the President would have vetoed the bill with the ed-flex provisions in it. I find myself resentful that I am in the position of being grateful for the limited flexibility that has been incorporated into the Teacher program. 
I do not mean to cast any aspersions on my colleagues, who I know worked very hard to keep some local control in this program and who support educational flexibility as much as I do. 
But, I ask President Clinton: What is your problem with giving states and local school districts some authority to make decisions about resource allocation? Are you afraid that the state or the locally elected boards of education may have a different priority than you do? 
I am most annoyed at this lost opportunity to give states and local school districts some unrestricted federal assistance. There is no question in my mind that Utah could stretch the impact of federal help much further if given the freedom to make these determinations and to pool resources more effectively. 
In view of all of this, some have suggested that I vote against this bill. I will say that on the basis of a few of these provisions, I was tempted to do so. 
But, there are also some very worthy provisions in the bill which mitigate its poorer aspects. 
For example, I am pleased that the tax extenders package is included in this bill. Despite my dislike for the idea of inserting a tax bill in an appropriations bill, I am glad we are getting this done. These tax provisions should not be allowed to expire; in fact, we ought to be making them permanent so we would not have to face this annual expiration crisis. 
I am particularly pleased that the bill accelerates the deduction for health insurance premiums for self-employed people. It is about time we gave entrepreneurs a break on this. 
I support the funding of the empowerment zones. This program is a powerful tool for revitalizing our urban areas; and I appreciate the fact that much of it is private sector driven. 
Of course, the Interior Department appropriation, which is contained in the Omnibus bill, is critical to Utah. It contains funds for Washington County's desert tortoise habitat conservation program; the Bonneville Shoreline Trail; program development and facility construction at the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument; and a prohibition on funds to study draining Lake Powell or decommissioning the Glen Canyon dam. 
While I am critical of the Administration's educational priorities, I support the additional funds for IDEA and Impact Aid. Utah, because of our heavy concentration of federal installations, will benefit from this sizable boost in Impact Aid. 
I am sincerely grateful to my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee and in the leadership for their attention to the pressing transportation needs in Utah as well as to the planning that is underway for security at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. 
Staging this event is going to require a state-of-the-art transportation system, including intermodel centers, light rail, an adequate fleet of buses, and intelligent transportation systems. This appropriation will give Utah the ability to move ahead in these areas. 
Additonally, I am extremely worried about our defense. We have alarming reports that entire air squadrons are grounded for lack of spare parts to keep planes in the air. We are told that junior officers and experienced non-commissioned officers are packing up and leaving the service, creating manpower and staffing problems in every branch of the military. 
Military readiness backs up diplomacy. The latter cannot succeed without the former. We simply must stop using the defense budget like a bank we can go to for spending offsets when we want them. We are risking our nation's strength and ability to influence outcomes throughout the world. And, what is more, if we do not properly maintain equipment, if we do not invest in new technologies, if we do not provide adequate housing and medical care, we do not honor our men and women in uniform. 
This bill begins the process of recognizing the importance of reinvesting in defense. I support the supplemental spending in this bill for defense, particularly the emphasis on readiness and personnel. 
Some defense funds are also directed toward drug interdiction efforts. This is one of several positive actions taken in this bill to fight the war on drugs. Drugs are poisoning our society, particularly our children. Drugs contribute to a variety of other crimes, including murders and robberies. We must not give up trying to eradicate this cancer from our communities, and I applaud the addition of these anti-drug measures to this bill. 
I remember when, more than a year ago, Speaker Gingrich, Congressman Hastert, and I met to discuss how we might force this Administration to focus on the worsening drug problem. We decided that we needed to undertake a comprehensive, bicameral effort. And so we did. We met with the Administration, held numerous hearings, and worked in a cooperative manner, extending our hands across the Capitol in a united effort to do what's best for our children. 
I am pleased to say that our efforts have led to some success. A number of these important provisions were produced and considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee. I want to express my pleasure with the decision to include my proposal to reauthorize the Office of National Drug Control Policy. As well, I am pleased that we were able to include the Drug Demand Reduction Act, a measure sponsored by Congressman Portman in the House. I was pleased to work with Congressman Portman on getting this measure considered and put in a form which would pass the Senate. In fact, I recently introduced the Senate companion measure. For all of those involved in the effort to include this important, comprehensive anti-drug package in the bill--Speaker Gingrich; Senators Coverdell, Grassley, and DeWine; and Congressmen Hastert, McCollum, Portman and others--I want to 
express my congratulations and thanks. 
Mr. President, let me conclude by saying that although there are some very ligitimate things to complain about regarding the bill--and process is one of them--we must recognize as well as the bill is a compromise. And, a compromise by definition means that neither side gets everything it wants. 
If I were king, would I have put forward this bill? Certainly not. But, I am not king, and neither is Senator Lott nor Senator Stevens. Neither is President Clinton nor Representative Gephardt. 
The stakes in this negotiation were particularly high. We were in a situation in which we were faced with an imminent shutdown of the federal government and all of the confusion, disruption, and dislocation that entails. So, when asked by pundits why the Republicans did not hold firm on a key issue like redirecting $1.2 billion in educational assistance to states and local schools with fewer strings attached, the answer is not difficult. Because in our system of checks and balances, the President has the veto pen. 
Had we engaged in a war of wills, we could have held out for a perfect version of this educational component--a more perfect version of the entire appropriation--but the result would not necessarily be good for the country. Maybe some day, the American people will reward Republicans for being better statesmen than they are politicians. 
Instead we negotiated a bill that is, indeed, a compromise. There are beneficial elements to it. It is not all bad. I would like to commend the Majority Leader, Senator Lott, and Speaker Gingrich for their efforts on this bill. Faced with a situation in which we could not act on the regular appropriations bills individually, as we would all have preferred, he steered us through this negotiation in the best manner he could. He deserves great credit, and he deserves our support. 
How we ended up in this situation has already been addressed by several members on this side of aisle. Suffice it to say that it should not be necessary to file cloture petitions on appropriations bill; it should not be necessary to debate nongermane amendments ad infinitem. But, regardless of how we ended up here, we have made the best of it, and, I believe, have finally delivered a reasonable appropriations package. 
It is always easier to criticize a compromise than it is to carve one out of disparate views and agendas. I have had some experience in this. I have often been criticized for a result that was not viewed as perfect or politically advantageous, even if it was fair or worthwhile. 
This omnibus appropriation is not perfect. I dare say the Majority Leader would not say it is perfect. But, it is fair, and it is worthwhile. It is worthwhile because of the components I believe merit support, some of which I have advocated for years. It is also worthwhile because it will relieve the American taxpayers of the dread and uncertainty that the government will shutdown and of their anger and frustration that their government still doesn't get it. 
It is worthwhile, I believe, because it is time to put the country first--ahead of the `wag the dog' diversionary strategy and ahead of seeking partisan advantage on election day. 
Therefore, I will vote for this omnibus appropriations bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to speak on a patient care issue of enormous importance: regulations being promulgated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) with respect to organ transplantation. 
I have long championed the need for our country to bring the innovations of medical science to the forefront of patient treatment, be it through pharmaceutical development, gene mapping, or artificial organ development. Nowhere has this been more necessary than in the realm of organ transplantation. 
Over 14 years ago, with the passage of the National Organ Transplant Act (NOTA), Congress intervened to advance medical science at a time when our health care system was not keeping pace with the tremendous advances medicine had to offer. As a result, we examined the role of the private sector and the Federal government in organ transplantation to formulate an equitable policy for individuals throughout this country to have access to organ transplantation when appropriate and necessary. 
We needed a better system than that which existed at the time, and that is what NOTA established. As the author of the National Organ Transplant Act (NOTA) in 1984, which was cosponsored by our colleagues Sentors Nickles, Thurmond, Grassley and Roth, I am proud of our accomplishment, and I continue to maintain a very keen interest in our country establishing and operating a viable, effective organ transplant network. 
There is no question that passage of NOTA has allowed us to save thousands of lives. The medical community has been transplanting over 4,000 livers each year. We have seen valuable transplant technology and services spread from only a handful of research institutions to hospitals in rural America. 
In my home State of Utah, LDS Hospital has been able to increase its liver transplant volume over 15-fold since its inception only 13 years ago. We have aspired to promote a system which allows medical science to reach the people it was meant to serve, and I believe we are in large part achieving that goal, in great measure due to enactment of NOTA. 
Today, I stand before the the Senate to urge that we not precipitously reverse that work by allowing implementation of a new system which could threaten to undermine many of the successful organ transplant centers who are doing so much good in this Nation. Utah's own successful transplant center comes to mind, although centers in several other States such as Alabama, Louisiana, and South Carolina would also be jeopardized if this regulation goes into effect. 
While we in America are fortunate to enjoy the best health care in the world, we also have concerns about the availability of life saving care should an organ fail. Advances in medicine have made once rare transplants commonplace. Yet, there is a scarcity of organs, despite the hard work of local organ procurement agencies, transplant centers, and, indeed, developers of artificial technology such as the work being done on artificial hearts at the University of Utah. 
Added to this concern about the availability of organs is a growing anxiety about the impact of HHS's proposed transplant allocation rules. A large source of this concern is within the hard-working transplant community. In fact, the Department of Health and Human Services has indicated that more than 85% of the almost 18,000 comments received oppose the organ procurement transplant network final rule. 
In particular, we are seeing a rising concern about variations in the availability of organs from region to region. The HHS response, which is to, in effect, nationalize distribution, seems logical at first, but upon further reflection is a flawed policy with potentially devastating near-term effects on many transplant centers. By diverting resources from relatively `organ-rich' to relatively `organ-poor' regions, the HHS rules penalize communities which have worked to build up successful programs, including those which have done so much to improve the harvesting rates of much-needed organs. 
I commend Secretary Shalala for bringing the need to further improve the organ transplant system to the forefront. One positive step is the recent rule requiring all 5,200 U.S. acute care hospitals to notify an organ procurement organization of every death as a condition of Medicare participation. Health Care Financing Administrator Nancy Ann Min-Deparle estimates that this step alone will increase organ donations by up to 20 percent. 
While this was a widely supported step, the proposed rules governing the Organ Procurement and Transplant Network have not enjoyed the same enthusiasm. 
In January, I joined 41 other Senators who wrote to Secretary Shalaha expressing concern that the proposed final rule could be used as vehicle to turn organ allocation into a political process. Her response did not alleviate my concerns, nor those of the transplant community. 
We cannot damage the public trust in the organ network, nor in the decisions of health professionals who operate the transplant system. While it will never be an easy task to allocate such a critical scarce resource--organs--we cannot let this become nothing more than a turf war between large and small transplant centers. 
Large centers play an important role by being at the heart of the innovations which have brought us the technical advances making current liver transplant possible. Smaller centers also make many contributions including making such technology more accessible to Americans. This allows the patient to be closer to family and loved ones during this stressful time. 
We must find a way to increase the organs and reduce the perceived inequities in the current system. We need the facts to address the problem. 
For this reason, I support the provision, which I understand will be contained in the omnibus appropriations bill, that will place a one-year moratorium on the implementation of the HHS rules. This moratorium will allow us to learn the facts necessary to improve the availability of transplantation. 
Mr. President, what we have at stake is not just the amelioration of a flawed organ transplant procurement and allocation system, but the future of allocating scare health care resources of all types. It behooves us to proceed carefully on this matter of utmost concern.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the `Drug Demand Reduction Act,' a bill that improves demand reduction efforts by focusing on the anti-drug media campaign, drug-free jails, and drug-free schools. The bill also contains several congressional resolutions aimed at encouraging community involvement, rejecting efforts to legalize illegal drugs, and streamlining prevention and treatment programs. 
This legislation is supported by General Barry McCaffrey, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The original companion bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Portman and Congressman Barrett on September 16, 1998, and passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, 396-9. I commend them for their leadership and thank them for their efforts. 
As many of you know, I worked hand in hand with my colleagues in the House on this issue, I held hearings in the Senate Committee on the Judiciary concerning these issues, and more recently, I worked with the Leadership to include this bill into the legislative package of anti-drug bills that is being incorporated into the Omnibus Appropriations bill for Fiscal 1999. This bill represents a substantial step toward reducing the rates of drug abuse in our country. 
According to the respected Monitoring the Future from 1991 to 1997, the lifetime use of marijuana--the gateway to harder drugs--has increased among school-age youth. The lifetime use of marijuana by 8th graders--that is those 8th graders who have ever used marijuana--increased by 122% from 1991 to 1997. For 10th graders, marijuana use increased by 81% and for 12th graders, 35%. 
Cocaine use among our youth has also seen staggering increases. From 1991 to 1997, the lifetime use of cocaine increased by 91% for 8th graders. The lifetime use of cocaine by 10th graders increased by 73% during the same time period. The number of 8th graders who have used cocaine within the past year increased by 154% from 1991 to 1997. 
Heroin use has also exploded since 1991. The reported lifetime use of heroin for both 8th and 10th graders increased by 75%. For 12th graders, heroin use increased by 133%. The number of 8th graders who have used heroin within the past year has increased by 86% from 1991 to 1997. For 10th and 12th graders, heroin use increased by 180% and 120%, respectively. 
These figures are staggering when you consider that each percentage point represents thousands of teens who are much more likely to become bigger problems for society as they become adults. 
The drug abuse situation in our country is an issue about which I care deeply. In June of this year, the Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the growing national crisis of drug abuse among our children. I think it is clear from all the available information and from the testimony heard at the hearing that youth drug abuse is not stable, but is instead rising sharply. Several of the witnesses who testified described how accessible drugs were to our young people. 
For example, Chris who works as an undercover investigator in high schools in Dayton, Ohio, described to the Committee how easy it was to get drugs in today's high schools. `Within the first investigation, I was approached within three weeks, by someone offering to sell to me. The second investigation, I was approached in a week-and-a-half by someone again wanting to sell to me. In high schools, you don't have to do a lot of seeking, you know. . . . Pretty much, they are going to come to you.' 
What is the reason behind this surge in teen drug consumption? I believe several things. First, there has been a decline in anti-drug messages from elected leaders--like President Clinton and similar messages in homes, schools, and--until recently with the airing of anti-drug messages developed for the Youth Media Campaign--the media. Second, the debate over the legalization of marijuana and the glorification of drugs in popular culture has caused confusion in our young people. Third, disapproval of drugs and perception of risk has declined among young people. The percent of 8th, 10th and 12th graders who `disapproved' or `strongly disapproved' of use of various drugs declined steadily from 1991 to 1995. In 1992, 92% of 8th graders, 90% of 10th graders, and 89% of 12th graders disapproved of people who smoked marijuana regularly. By 1996, however, those figures had dropped significantly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today in support of Senate passage of H.R. 1197, the Plant Patents Amendment Act of 1997. This legislation, passed by the House last Friday, would close a loophole in the Patent Act through which foreign infringers are able to exploit the products of their infringements within the United States, depriving American plant patent owners of millions of dollars in royalties. This bill is identical to legislation introduced in the Senate by Senator Gordon Smith, and its substantive provisions are mirrored in the omnibus patent bill I introduced and which was reported favorably to the Senate by the Judiciary Committee last year. 
The development of new plant varieties in the United States is encouraged by chapter 15 of the Patent Act, which grants patent-like protection to anyone who develops new, distinct varieties of asexually reproduced plants. Plant patent owners are rewarded for their ingenuity with a limited monopoly that allows them to prevent others from asexually reproducing the plant or selling or using a plant so reproduced. 
The so-called loophole exists because the sale or use of plant parts is not explicitly prohibited. As a result, plant patent owners must stand by while their patents are infringed abroad and the products of such infringement--for example, fruit or cut flowers--are then imported to and sold within the United States, without a single dime in royalty revenue to the patent owner. This is no small problem. Royalty losses with respect to some key horticultural plants have been estimated to reach between $50 to $100 million over the past five to ten years. This is money that rightfully should be directed to American plant patent owners--many of whom are small businesses and family farmers--and which would otherwise contribute tremendously to the U.S. economy. 
Enactment of this legislation is not only good for American business and the economy, it is consistent with our international treaty obligations. The International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV) was last revised in March 1991, and the United States signed the convention in October 1991. This convention provides protection for plant breeders by requiring member countries to accord certain plant patent rights, including specifically the right to prohibit others from selling, importing, or exporting harvested material (i.e., plant parts) derived from unauthorized asexually reproduced plants. 
Mr. President, I had hoped to enact this change in the context of a comprehensive patent reform bill. I am disappointed that consideration of that bill has been blocked by a few senators with unrelated and rather non-descript objections, and that we are forced to take this measure up as a stand-alone bill. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the House has acted on this measure, and I commend the efforts of my colleague, Senator Smith, to bring this bill to a vote in the Senate.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, after months of review and careful Committee action, I am proud that the full Senate is poised to approve the International Crime and Anti-Terrorism Amendments of 1998. Along with Senators Leahy, Biden, and others, the Senate Judiciary Committee has undertaken a careful review of the ambitious and expansive international crime package developed by the administration and introduced by President Clinton on May 12. This proposal took the best ideas developed by the Department of Justice, the Customs Service, the Treasury Department, and other federal agencies involved in the fight against international crime. 
Senator Leahy and I have worked with the Department to winnow the bill down to 17 sections which are generally noncontroversial but would provide valuable assistance in the fight against international crime, terrorism, and drug trafficking. Potentially controversial sections have been shelved in an effort to broaden support for the legislation, and Senator Leahy supports each of the remaining 17 sections. I hope that next Congress we can undertake a broad review of these issues and confront the more difficult provisions which have been placed aside for the moment. 
It is clear that the world has become a smaller place, with faster transportation and communication, loosening of borders, and great leaps in transnational economic activity. But as these changes have benefited law-abiding citizens, they have also made it easier for criminals to spread their misery and destruction throughout the globe. Whether we talking about drug cartels, arms smugglers, terrorists, or those involved in economic espionage, international crime is an increasing threat to our national security and well-being. 
This legislation should not be seen as a comprehensive response to these problems, but rather as a package of moderate technical responses to weaknesses in current law that would make a real difference in the fight against international crime. Our proposal, among other things, improves federal laws which regulate the jurisdiction of law enforcement, allows exclusion of violent criminals, determines how our legal system deals with foreign defendants and records, and responds to emerging computer and financial crimes. 
On a title-by-title basis, the bill does the following: 
Title I--Investigating and Punishing Violent Crimes Against U.S. Nationals Aboard 
101 Extend investigative authority to cover crimes committed against U.S. nationals abroad by organized criminal groups 
102 Allow federal authorities to investigate murder and attempted murder of state and local officials 
Title II--Strengthening the Borders of the United States 
201 Strengthen law enforcement authority to board ships 
Title III--Denying Safe Haven to International Criminals and Enhancing National Security Responses 
301 Allow exclusion from U.S. of persons fleeing lawful, non-political prosecution 
302-04 Allow exclusion of persons from U.S. involved in RICO offenses, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, or alien smuggling from U.S., with waiver authority to Attorney General 
305 Forfeiture of proceeds of foreign crimes held in U.S. 
306 Expand administrative summons authority under Bank Secrecy Act 
307 Increase monetary penalties for violations of International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
308 Add attempt crime to Trading with the Enemy Act 
Title IV--Responding to Emerging International Crime Threats 
501 Expand wiretap authority to cover computer fraud and hackers 
502 Expand extraterritorial jurisdiction to cover credit card, ATM, and other electronic frauds with can cause harm in U.S. 
Title V--Promoting Global Cooperation in the Fight Against International Crime 
601 Authority to share proceeds from joint forfeiture actions with cooperating foreign agencies 
602 Changes in procedures for MLAT's (mutual legal assistance treaties) 
Title VI--Streamlining the Investigation and Prosecution of International Crimes in U.S. Courts 
701 Allow Attorney General to reimburse state and local governments for costs incurred in assisting extraditions 
702 Change Federal Rules of Evidence to ease admission of foreign records 
703 Bar foreign fugitives from receiving credit for time served abroad  
I appreciate the Senate's quick action on this necessary legislation, and I urge the House to pass this bill before we adjourn. 
Following my statement is a detailed section-by-section analysis of the legislation. 
International Crime and Anti-Terrorism Amendments of 1998 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am generally supportive of the concept embodied in the amendment offered by the Senator from Arizona which was discussed in committee, and I regret that it was not possible to work out acceptable language to include in this bill. Next Congress, I believe the Judiciary Committee should take up the challenge of reviewing this Nation's encryption policies and ensure that law enforcement agencies can continue to fulfill their critical responsibilities. This review will include a hearing to consider the FBI's proposed Technical Support Center, in order to evaluate its potential for solving some of law enforcement's access concerns. I pledge my support to help enact legislation to address the use of encryption in furtherance of a felony. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, prior to the passage of H.R. 3494 by the Senate and House, Title 18 of the United States Code, Section 2252 and 2252A permitted prosecution for possession of child pornography only when it could be alleged that an individual possessed three or more pictures or images of child pornography. When the original Senate substitute to H.R. 3494 was reported out of the Judiciary Committee, no agreement had been reached on amending the federal child pornography laws to prohibit the possession of even one picture or image of child pornography. 
Thanks to the diligent efforts of Senators Leahy, DeWine, and Sessions, we were able to reach agreement on that issue. The final bill makes it clear that the United States has `Zero Tolerance' for the possession of any child pornography. Unfortunately, Senators Leahy, DeWine, and Sessions were inadvertently omitted from the list of cosponsors of Senate amendment 3812 to H.R. 3494, which incorporated that agreement. The Record should be corrected to reflect their work on, and cosponsorship of, this important amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, last Thursday the Senate approved, by unanimous consent, the conference report on H.R. 2281, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). I rise today to laud the House's action in adding its vote of approval to that of the Senate. The bill now goes to the President, who I expect will move swiftly to sign this important legislation into law. 
As I said last Thursday, and on many other occasions, I believe the DMCA is one of the most important pieces of legislation to be considered by Congress this year, even in recent memory. It has been over twenty years since such significant copyright law reforms have been enacted in this country, and this vote has come at a critical juncture in our nation's transition to a `digital millennium.' 
But all this would not have happened without the critical support of countless parties who have come together in negotiations to refine the bill and reach a compromise that best promotes American interests at home and abroad. Once again, I want to thank all of the conferees who participated in bringing this legislation to closure. 
In particular, I want to recognize the efforts of my counterparts on the Senate side, Senator Leahy and Senator Thurmond. I also want to convey my appreciation for the dedicated efforts of Congressman Henry Hyde, the distinguished Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Congressman John Conyers, the distinguished Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congressman Howard Coble, the distinguished Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Courts and Intellectual Property. They have been committed to seeing this bill through from the start and have been wholly undeterred by other pressing business that has occupied the House Judiciary Committee in recent weeks. I also want to recognize Congressman Tom Bliley, the distinguished Chairman of the Commerce Committee, for his willingness to consider the Senate's views objectively and dispassionately. 
In addition, I want to acknowledge once again the hard work done by staff. In particular I want to recognize the efforts of Manus Cooney, Edward Damich, and Troy Dow of my staff, whose long hours and tireless efforts were key to guiding this bill through every stage of the legislative process. Bruce Cohen, Beryl Howell, and Marla Grossman, of Senator Leahy's staff, likewise provided invaluable assistance on all levels. I also want to thank Garry Malphrus of Senator Thurmond's staff for his work in conference, as well as Paul Clement and Bartlett Cleland of Senator Ashcroft's staff for their invaluable assistance in reaching key compromises in the Judiciary Committee. Finally, I want to thank the House staff, including Mitch Glazier, Debra Laman, Robert Raben, David Lehman, Bari Schwartz, Justin Lilley, Andrew Levin, Mike O'Rielly, and Whitney Fox. 
I also want to recognize the long hours and persistent dedication of the many people who engaged in hard-fought, but ultimately fruitful, private-sector negotiations on related issues. Many of the compromises embodied in this legislation would not have been reached without the support of these parties. For example, we would not be lauding the passage of a bill today at all were it not for the willingness of the copyright industries, Internet service providers, educators, libraries, and others in the fair use community to come together at the direction and under the supervision of the Judiciary Committee to arrive at a consensus position regarding standards for limiting the copyright infringement liability of Internet service providers. 
Many other negotiations were conducted and agreements reached that made this legislation possible, including agreements between copyright owners and manufacturers of the consumer electronics devices that make the use of their works by the public possible. One such agreement reflects the understanding of the motion picture industry and consumer electronics manufacturers regarding standards for the incorporation of certain copyright protection technologies in analog videocassette recorders. This agreement was the basis for the new section 1201(k) of the Copyright Act, as added by the DMCA, which requires analog videocassette recorders to accommodate specific copy control technologies in wide use in the market today. I have received a letter from Mr. William A. Krepick, President and Chief Operating Officer of Macrovision Corporation--the producer of such copy protection technology--assuring me of his commitment to adhere to the spirit of this agreement by making such technology available on reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms, which in some circumstances will include royalty-free licenses. I would ask unanimous consent that the text of this letter be incorporated in the Record immediately after my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the DMCA is a remarkable bill that is the result of a remarkable process. By enacting this legislation in a timely fashion, the United States has set the marker for the rest of the world with respect to the implementation of the new WIPO treaties. As a result, the United States can look forward to stronger world-wide protection of our intellectual property and a stronger balance of trade as inbound revenues from foreign uses of our intellectual property continue to increase. I am pleased to have been a part of this great effort, and I look forward to the President's signing of H.R. 2281. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am delighted at the recent passage of S. 505, the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure adequate copyright protection for American works abroad by extending the U.S. term of copyright protection for an additional 20 years. The late Sonny Bono was an avid supporter of the bill, and he fully appreciated what its passage would mean to the American economy. It is therefore an appropriate memorial to this fine American. 
20 years ago, Mr. President, Congress fundamentally altered the way in which the U.S. calculates its term of copyright protection by abandoning a fixed-year term of protection and adopting a basic term of protection based on the life of the author. In adopting the life-plus-50 term, Congress cited three primary justifications for the change: (1) the need to conform the U.S. copyright term with the prevailing worldwide standard; (2) the insufficiency of the U.S. copyright term to provide a fair economic return for authors and their dependents; and, (3) the failure of the U.S. copyright term to keep pace with the substantially increased commercial life of copyrighted works resulting from the rapid growth in communications media. 
Developments over the past 20 years have led to a widespread reconsideration of the adequacy of the life-plus-50-year term based on these same reasons. Among the main developments is the effect of demographic trends, such as increasing longevity and the trend toward rearing children later in life, on the effectiveness of the life-plus-50 term to provide adequate protection for American creators and their heirs. In addition, unprecedented growth in technology over the last 20 years, including the advent of digital media and the development of the national Information Infrastructure and the Internet, have dramatically enhanced the marketable lives of creative works. Most importantly, though, is the growing international movement towards the adoption the longer term of life-plus-70. 
Thirty five years ago, the Permanent Committee of the Berne Union began to reexamine the sufficiency of the life-plus-50-year term. Since then, a growing consensus of the inadequacy of the life-plus-50 term to protect creators in an increasingly competitive global marketplace has lead to actions by several nations to increase the duration of copyright. Of particular importance is the 1993 directive issued by the European Union, which requires its member countries to implement a term of protection equal to the life of the author plus 70 years by July 1, 1995. 
According to the Copyright Office, all the states of the European Union have now brought their laws in compliance with the directive. And, as the Register of Copyrights has stated, those countries that are seeking to join the European Union, including Poland, Hungary, Turkey, the Czech Republic, and Bulgaria, are likely, as well, to amend their copyright laws to conform with the life-plus-70 standard. 
The reason this is of such importance to the United States is that the EU Directive also mandates the application of what is referred to as `the rule of the shorter term.' This rule may also be applied by adherents to the Berne Convention and the Universal Copyright Convention. In short, this rule permits those countries with longer copyright terms to limit protection of foreign works to the shorter term of protection granted in the country of origin. Thus, in those countries that adopt the longer term of life-plus-70, American works will forfeit 20 years of available protection and be protected instead for only the duration of the life-plus-50 term afforded under U.S. law. 
Mr. President, as I've said previously, America exports more copyrighted intellectual property than any country in the world, a huge percentage of it to nations of the European Union. In fact, in 1996, the core U.S. copyright industries achieved foreign sales and exports exceeding $60 billion, surpassing, for the first time, every other export sector, including automotive, agriculture and aircraft. And, according to 1996 estimates, copyright industries account for some 5.7 percent of the total gross domestic product. Furthermore, copyright industries are creating American jobs at nearly three times the rate of other industries, with the number of U.S. workers employed by core copyright industries more than doubling between 1977 and 1996. Today, these industries contribute more to the economy and employ more workers than any single manufacturing sector, accounting for over 5 percent of the total U.S. workforce. In fact, in 1996, the total copyright industries employed more workers than the four leading noncopyright manufacturing sectors combined. 
Clearly, Mr. President, America stands to lose a significant part of its international trading advantage if our copyright laws do not keep pace with emerging international standards. Given the mandated application of the `rule of the shorter term' under the EU Directive, American works will fall into the public domain 20 years before those of our European trading partners, undercutting our international trading position and depriving copyright owners of two decades of income they might otherwise have. Similar consequences will follow in those nations outside the EU that choose to exercise the `rule of the shorter term' under the Berne Convention and the Universal Copyright Convention. 
The public performance of musical works is one of the copyright rights that will be benefited by the 20-year extension. But--ironically--in title II of the bill, Mr. President, we are cutting back on that right by expanding the exemption that currently exists in the Copyright Act for `mom-and-pop' establishments. Because of the public performance right, businesses that use music to attract customers are required to obtain a license. The licenses can be obtained from the performing rights organizations (PROs), namely, ASCAP, BMI, and SESAC. The PROs, in turn, pay the owners of copyright in the music--music publishers, composers, and/or songwriters--from the proceeds. Because the rates charged by the two biggest PROs, ASCAP and BMI, are monitored by the Rate Court of the U.S. District Court of the Southern District of New York, the rates today amount to a very small amount per annum per business. The rates are even smaller for the kinds of performances covered by title II of the bill--performances of music over television and radio sets that businesses turn on for the benefit of their customers. And, as I said, `mom-and-pop' establishments do not have to pay anything. Nevertheless, some have sought for over 3 years to eliminate the licensing of music that arrives in a business establishment through the reception of radio and TV signals. 
I have a stellar record in supporting legislation that benefits small business, but this includes songwriters, who themselves are small businesses. I have yet to discover a reason to eliminate or even reduce the charge for the commercial use of some one else's property. In my view, property is property whether it's dirt or intangible, and I have always been a defender of property rights. 
The associations that want to eliminate the public performance right for business establishments have held up passage of copyright term extension for more than three years, although they had no quarrel with copyright term extension on its merits. Since copyright term extension is so important to America, Mr. President, I began a series of negotiations last year to try to resolve the problem. Other negotiations were begun by others, and, in the end, a compromise was worked out. This compromise is included in title II of the bill. 
Title II greatly expands the current `mom-and-pop' exemption in the Copyright Act. Indeed, data supplied by the Congressional Research Service reveals that over 65.2% of restaurants will be exempt. 
But lest we think that the music licensing issue has been put to bed, I want to sound a note of caution. Despite the months of negotiations that produced title II, an unanticipated problem popped up just as a compromise was reached--the exemption contained in title II applies to radio broadcasts licensed by the FCC and does not cover Internet radio. We did not have time to address this problem, and, frankly, the novel nature of Internet radio precluded a simple solution. This issue concerns me, however, and I will turn to the music licensing question again in the future, if I see that a disparity exists between FCC-licensed radio and Internet radio. I would not want businesses to turn away from new technology because of artificial forces acting on the market. If we do turn to this question, we may discover that it is impossible to integrate Internet radio and TV into the exemption without modifying its scope. 
Nevertheless, Mr. President, on balance, S. 505 is a good bill. I'm glad it passed, and I'm glad that a compromise was worked out on music licensing to allow the copyright term to be extended. I thank all who had a hand in the solution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Senator from Minnesota for his comments. This will be a top priority for the Committee next year. I intend to hold a hearing on database legislation and move for prompt consideration in the 106th Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as we begin to wrap-up the 105th Congress, there remains one essential item of business which I strongly believe warrants Senate action before we adjourn for the year. 
Over the past year, numerous concerns have been raised by home health care agency officials and Medicare beneficiaries over the new Medicare payment system established in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. 
As a strong home health care advocate in the Senate for virtually my entire career, I am well aware of the importance home health care is for Medicare beneficiaries with acute needs such as recovering from joint replacements and chronic conditions such as heart failure. 
Utahns have consistently told me they prefer to receive care in their homes rather than in institutional settings such as hospitals and nursing homes. 
In fact, patients actually do better in their recovery while at home than in a nursing home or hospital. And, clearly, the costs associated with home care are far less than what is charged in an institutional setting. 
As a member of the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicare program, I am also well aware of the impending financial crisis Medicare was facing last year. Home health care was the fastest growing component in Medicare. 
Between 1989 and 1996, Medicare spending for home health services rose from $2.5 billion to $16.8 billion. Concurrently, according to the GAO, the number of home health agencies grew from 5,700 in 1989 to more than 10,000 in 1997. 
Indeed, home health care spending threatened to consume more and more of the limited Medicare dollars. 
Last year, Congress was faced with an extraordinary and daunting task--namely, the financial survival of the Medicare program. 
No less than President Clinton's own advisors who serve as his appointed Trustees for the Medicare Trust Fund warned Congress that absent immediate action Medicare Part A would be insolvent by the year 2001. 
Clearly something had to be done. The status quo was unacceptable. 
To control the rapid cost growth in all components of Medicare, Congress passed the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, or the BBA, which required the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), the agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, to implement a Prospective Payment System that sets fixed, predetermined payments for home health services. 
Until that system could be developed and implemented, agencies would be paid through an Interim Payment System, or IPS, which imposes limits on agencies' cost-based payments. These limits were designed to provide incentives to control per visit costs and the number and mix of visits for each user. 
Since the implementation of the IPS on October 1, 1997, numerous concerns have been raised about severe equity issues in the payment limit levels. 
For instance, wide disparities exist in reimbursement levels ranging from $760 to $53,000 on average per beneficiary. The payment limits are further exacerbated by a major distinction in the payment rules between the so-called `new' verses `old" agencies. 
The impact of the IPS has caused comparable home health agencies providing comparable home health services to receive very different reimbursement payments. The payment limit issues are further exacerbated by the imposition of a 15% across the board cut in payment rates which is scheduled to take effect in October 1999. 
According to a September 1998 report from the General Accounting Office, at least 12 home health agencies in my state of Utah have been forced to close their doors since the implementation of the IPS. 
This leaves just 75 agencies to serve the entire estimated home health care population of 22,000 home health beneficiaries throughout my state. 
And, I note for my colleagues who have not had the pleasure of visiting Utah, with its spectacular vistas and magnificent mountains, essentially is a rural state with population centers far apart. 
So if you live in Panguitch or Vernal, and your home health agency closes its doors, you will be very lucky if there is any other service option available. 
Home health care is particularly vital in improving efforts to deliver health care in rural areas where quality, long term care has been deficient for too long. 
As my colleagues recall last year, there was no disagreement on the need to move to the PPS. The home health care industry was supportive of the new system--and remains supportive to this day. 
The problem is with moving to the PPS from the current cost-based payment system. Data which was not available to accurately develop the PPS would be needed before such a system could be put into place. 
Accordingly, the IPS was proposed as a mechanism to provide HCFA was the necessary baseline information to develop the PPS. 
As we now know, the IPS has resulted in new cost limits causing many home health agencies to close and resulted in beneficiaries, particularly those with high-cost needs, to have difficulty in obtaining care. 
I am especially mindful of the situation in my state of Utah where many of my constituents have talked to me about the problem. 
I have met with officials from Utah's home health agencies from around the state as well as with beneficiaries who depend on the services performed by these agencies. 
Moreover, the Senate Small Business Committee held a hearing on July 15, 1998 on the impact of the IPS on small home health businesses. One of my constituents, Mr. Marty Hoelscher, CEO of Superior Home Care in Salt Lake City testified at the hearing. He stated:  
The IPS provides a flat payment to agencies for each patient, regardless of the amount of care the patient medically requires. What happens to the really sick patients? What happens to the agencies who don't turn their backs on them? In Utah, the patients of the 18 free standing agencies which have recently ceased operations are filling our emergency rooms, intensive care units, nursing homes or morgues. 
I have been working concertedly with my Senate colleagues to resolve these problems. For example, in July, I joined with 20 of my colleagues in the Senate on July 16, 1998 to cosponsor S. 2323, the `Home Health Access Preservation Act of 1998.' 
This legislation was designed to alleviate the problems created by the IPS, and specifically, to address the problems associated with the high costs of caring for the sickest patients and those who need care on a long term basis. 
After Senator Grassley introduced S. 2323, it became evident that the budget neutrality provision--which necessitated that S. 2323 incur no new spending--was requiring us to reallocate resources in a way that disadvantaged some home health providers in order to assist others. 
Many members expressed concerns that because of the problems inherent in such a reallocation, we should just repeal the IPS totally. I was extremely sympathetic to those concerns, but unfortunately, the Congressional Budget Office advised us that such a repeal was very costly; in fact, it was so costly that a total repeal was clearly out of question if we are to maintain the balanced budget which is so important to our country. 
I am pleased that as a result of several months work by the Chairman and ranking minority member of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth and Senator Moynihan along with those of us on the committee have developed this bipartisan proposal which is supported by the home health industry. 
The legislation we are introducing today, while not a perfect measure, is a responsible bill that will improve problems inherent in the current law and which will work to the benefit of thousands of Americans who rely on very valuable home health care services. 
Under this legislation, several steps will be taken to improve the IPS. 
First, the bill will reduce the extreme variations in payment limits applicable to old agencies within states and across state lines. 
The bill also provides for a reduction in the payment level differences between `old' and `new' agencies. Such provider distinctions exist nowhere else in the Medicare system and contribute to the arbitrary nature of the payment system for health care services. 
Moreover, the bill delays for one year the 15% across the board cut in payment limits for all agencies that was to take effect in October 1999. Home health agencies in my state tell me this is perhaps the most significant and important feature of the bill. 
The bill further directs the Health Care Financing Administration to take all feasible steps necessary to minimize the delay in the implementation of the PPS. Specifically, HCFA will be required to accelerate data collection efforts necessary to develop the case-mix system which is at the heart of the PPS model. 
Mr. President, I am pleased to add my name as an original cosponsor to this vitally needed legislation. 
As we are all too painfully aware, our budget rules require that any legislation such as this which proposes `new' Medicare spending be accompanied by a reduction in spending to offset the costs. 
While I understand the need to maintain budget neutrality, I am concerned about the offsets in the Roth bill, but I am pleased Senator Roth has agreed to consider other offsets in order to address my concerns. We cannot move forward without an offset since the Congressional Budget Office has scored the bill at a cost of $1 billion. 
With the assurance that I now have received from the Chairman of the Finance Committee, I am lending my support to this important bill. 
Our overriding objective at this late time with only hours left in the 105th Congress is to get this bill passed by the Senate and into conference with the House. 
I am pleased that the House approved its version of the legislation just moments ago, and while the House legislation is not the measure I would want, its passage does move us substantially closer toward enactment of a final bill prior to adjournment. 
I can assure my constituents in Utah who depend on home health care services that I will continue to pursue legislative resolution of these financing issues to preserve the home health care benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries. 
And finally, let me also assure the dedicated and hard working people of Utah who provide home health care services that I will continue to work with them to bring some logic to the new Medicare payment system. 
I especially want to thank Marty Hoelscher, Steve Hansen, Grant Howarth, Vaughn McDonald, Dee Bangerter and the many others in Utah, especially the Utah Association of Home Health Agencies, for their counsel and leadership over the past year in working on this very complex issue.  
Mr. KERRY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is fitting that, as we conclude the 105th Congress, we can add to our long list of accomplishments the passage of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998. 
This bill has been in the works throughout this Congress and is a fine example of the legislative results we can achieve through long, thoughtful study and debate. I would like to compliment the numerous members and their staffs who have worked on this bill since its inception. Senator Specter introduced the first version of this bill last year. Senator Lugar and Senator Lieberman worked diligently to develop that initial draft. And Senator Nickles took the final drafts and brought the bill to the version we will vote on today. 
Numerous compromises were made, but the lasting product of this body rarely passes without such compromising, and again I wish to compliment all the senators who so assiduously developed the bill I expect will pass overwhelmingly this morning. 
There is a conceptual problem whenever we seek to apply serious diplomatic and economic sanctions to worldwide problems. On the one hand, you risk over 70 cases of unintended consequences. I use that number because recent estimates are that at least 70 nations violate, abuse or proscribe outright religious freedom. One legislative solution mandating tangible and serious sanctions applied to over 70 cases can have a myriad of consequences we don't intend. 
On the other hand, a mere resolution of disapproval of such behavior appears weak, and can give the signal that the Congress is strong on denunciation, but weak on action. 
Mr. President, one of my favorite quotes on geopolitics comes from the British historian Paul Johnson, who wrote in his magisterial history of the blood-soaked 20th century, Modern Times, that `it is of the essence of geopolitics to be able to distinguish between different degrees of evil.' 
Of course, evil is evil. But, it takes sophisticated legislating to address it in a geopolitically sound way, and I believe that this current bill has succeeded in doing that. 
By the detailed and considered list of incremental actions directed of the President, and by the selective waiver authorities, we have, in the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, a piece of legislation that is both substantive and flexible. It conscientiously fulfills the Congress's intent to act against one of the most hideous violations of human rights, persecution based on faith. 
We could not ignore the moral imperative to act, Mr. President. It would be impossible now to list all of the egregious abuses of this fundamental right that are occurring today, and I fear that to select a few examples risks suggesting other, unmentioned, abuses are less objectionable. 
Nor would it be accurate to suggest that abuses of religion occur merely in totalitarian or authoritarian regimes. The renowned human rights organization Freedom House recently reported that the number of democracies in the world has grown over the past ten years from 66 democracies to 117. This is a remarkable accomplishment and bodes well for global political trends. 
But we should not believe this trend is irreversible, nor should we assume that all of the new democracies are well-established in their institutions. While democratic development is required to further the protection of individual rights, including the right to conscience and faith, certain democratic regimes around the world still constrain complete freedom of religion. 
There is a relation, however, between the degree of abuse of the right to individual faith and authoritarian regimes, because it mostly is in authoritarian regimes do you the horrific abuses--torture, imprisonment, execution and disappearance--that are most disturbing to Americans. That is why all of us gathered today to support this bill must redouble our efforts to maintain a strong commitment to the development and expansion of democracy as a pillar of American foreign policy. 
Mr. President, I take my own Mormon faith seriously; and, because of my faith, I am acutely aware of the historical suffering of an intolerant society. Perhaps that is what makes me more attuned to the sufferings of the faithful--of all the great religions--around the world. Perhaps it is because I am a conservative, who simply believes in a life based on faith, family and country, with faith underpinning the values of family and country. 
But it is probably because I am an American, a proud citizen of a country where we have so developed a rule of law that enshrines the individual right to belief that we are the envy of freedom-seeking people around the world and the enemies of those regimes too insecure, too primitive, and, in some cases, too barbaric to countenance this most fundamental freedom. 
Mr. President, I have traveled a great deal in this world, and I have met many leaders. I have met communists who believed, and believers who countenanced oppression of other faiths. The varieties of personal faith and its expressions are countless, but the fundamental political right to personal conscience is indivisible, and universally desired. 
This bill before demonstrates that the United States Congress, and all its members with all their faiths, believe that the pursuit of this political right must be a conscious, vocal, activist, and determined part of our foreign policy. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to note the passage of H.R. 3494, the Hatch-Leahy-DeWine `Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998.' I want to thank Senators Leahy and DeWine for their cooperation in drafting and advocating the passage of this important piece of legislation. I also want to commend Congressman McCollum for his determined efforts in marshaling H.R. 3494 through the House. 
Although it was necessary to make some changes to the House version in an effort to achieve bipartisan support in the Senate, the final product is a strong bill which goes a long way toward improving the ability of law enforcement and the courts to respond to high-tech sexual predators of children. Pedophiles who roam the Internet, purveyors of child pornography, and serial child molesters are specifically targeted. 
The Internet is a wonderful creation. By allowing for instant communication around the globe, it has made the world a smaller place, a place in which people can express their thoughts and ideas without limitation. It has released the creative energies of a new generation of entrepreneurs and it is an unparalleled source of information. 
While we should encourage people to take full advantage of the opportunities the Internet has to offer, we must also be vigilant in seeking to ensure that the Internet is not perverted into a hunting ground for pedophiles and other sexual predators, and a drive-through library and post office for purveyors of child pornography. Our children must be protected from those who would choose to sexually abuse and exploit them. And those who take the path of predation should know that the consequences of their actions will be severe and unforgiving. 
How does this bill provide additional protection for our children? By prohibiting the libidinous dissemination on the Internet of information related to minors and the sending of obscene material to minors, we make it more difficult for sexual predators to gather information on, and lower the sexual inhibitions of, potential targets. By prohibiting to possession of even one item or image containing child pornography, we are stating in no uncertain terms that we have `zero tolerance' for the sexual exploitation of children. And by requiring electronic communication service providers to report the commission of child pornography offenses to authorities, we mandate accountability and responsibility on the Internet. 
Additionally, law enforcement is given effective tools to pursue sexual predators. The Attorney General is provided with authority to issue administrative subpoenas in child pornography cases. Proceeds derived from these offenses, and the facilities and instrumentalities used to perpetuate these offenses, will be subject to forfeiture. And prosecutors will not have the power to seek pretrial detention of sexual predators prior to trial. 
Federal law enforcement will be given increased statutory authority to assist the States in kidnapping and serial murder investigations, which often involve children. In that vein, H.R. 3494 calls for the creation of the Morgan P. Hardiman Child Abduction and Serial Murder Investigative Resources Center. That center will gather information, expertise and resources that our nation's law enforcement agencies can draw upon to help combat these heinous crimes. 
Sentences for child abuse and exploitation offenses will be made tougher. In addition to increasing the maximum penalties available for many crimes against children and mandating tough sentences for repeat offenders, the bill will also recommend that the Sentencing Commission reevaluate the guidelines applicable to these offenses, and increase them where appropriate to address the egregiousness of these crimes. And H.R. 3494 calls for life imprisonment in appropriate cases where certain crimes result in the death of children. 
Protection of our children is not a partisan issue. We have drawn upon the collective wisdom of the House as well as from Senators on both sides of the aisle to draft a bill which includes strong, effective legislation protecting children. Once again, I urge the House to act quickly to pass this bill so that we can get it to the President for his signature this session. Protection for our children delayed is protection denied.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Without losing my right to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. how much time would the Senator want? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could the Senator do it in 2? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Three. Three minutes. Go ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Without losing my right to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, what this legislation will accomplish is straightforward. If a person is able to repay their debts, they will be required to do so. We must restore personal responsibility to the bankruptcy system. If we do not, every family in America, many of whom struggle to make ends meet, will continue to shoulder the financial burden of those who abuse the system. 
It always has been my view that individuals should take personal responsibility for their debts, and repay them to the extent possible. Under the present system, it is too easy for debtors who have the ability to repay some of what they owe to file for chapter 7 bankruptcy. Under chapter 7, debtors can liquidate their assets and discharge all debt, while protecting certain assets from liquidation, irrespective of their income. Mr. President, I believe that the complete extinguishing of debt should be reserved for debtors who truly cannot repay them. 
Mr. President, let's think about this problem in fundamental terms. Let's say that somebody owes you money, and is perfectly able to pay you back However, this person finds a clever way under Federal law to avoid paying you. That would be wrong--it would be unfair. Yet, we are allowing this to happen every day in our bankruptcy courts. We have a system woefully in need of reform. The bankruptcy system was never intended to be a means for people who are perfectly able to repay their debts to get out of paying them. It was designed to be a last resort for people who truly need it. What our bill does is allow those who truly need bankruptcy relief to have it, but requires those who can repay their debts to do so. This is not a novel concept. It is basic fairness. 
Americans agree that bankruptcy should be based on need. As this chart demonstrates, 87 percent believe that an individual who files for bankruptcy should be required to repay as much of their debt as they are able to and then be allowed to extinguish the rest. Yet, as stated in the Wall Street Journal (Nov. 8, 1996) bankruptcy protection laws give an alarming number of `obscure, but perfectly legal places for anyone to hide assets.' For instance, one Virginian multimillionaire incurred massive debt, but under State law was entitled to keep certain household goods, farm equipment, and `one horse.' This particular individual opted to keep a $640,000 race horse. 
This bill does a number of things to make ti harder for people who can repay their debts to avoid doing so by using loopholes in the present bankruptcy system. 
It provides a needs-based means test approach to bankruptcy, under which debtors who can repay some of their debts are required to do so. It contains new measures to protect against fraud in bankruptcy, such as a requirement that debtors supply income tax returns and pay stubs, audits of bankruptcy cases, and limits on repeat bankruptcy filings. 
Mr. President, I am amazed to hear critics of this legislation make the argument that his report does not protect consumers. As recently as yesterday, I read that an opponent of this legislation said, `The Republican conferees stripped out every significant consumer 
protection in the Senate bill, and to add insult to injury, repealed existing consumer protections in the law.' How, Mr. President, does this bill `repeal existing consumer protections?' Further, I challenge anyone who would make such an unfounded claim to compare the House bill, which passed with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 306 to 118, with this balanced conference legislation, and tell me there are no new significant consumer protections. 
Let's get beyond the politics. Let's stop with the unfounded criticisms of this legislation, and look at what it really gives to consumers: 
A debtor's bill of rights with disclosure requirements for debtor lawyers who advertise. This provision is designed to protect consumers from `bankruptcy mills' that are out to make money without regard to consumers. This provision will protect unwary consumers from being lured into bankruptcy without knowing what they are getting into and without knowing their alternatives. 
Credit counseling for debtors before they file for bankruptcy, so that they may be able to avoid bankruptcy altogether. 
New consumers protections with regard to reaffirmations. Every debtor who reaffirms unsecured debt will have the opportunity to appear before a judge. And, a new heightened standard is required in the review of each of these agreements to make sure debtors are not coerced into making them. 
New reaffirmation disclosure requirements. Even it a debtor is represented by counsel, the creditor must give new disclosures to the debtor with regard to the debtor's rights. 
New penalties for pressuring debtors after discharge. A $1,000 penalty plus actual damages and attorneys fees if a creditor violates the post-discharge injunction. 
New penalties for abusive reaffirmation practices: Another $1,000 penalty on top of actual damages and attorneys fees if a debtor is injured by a creditor's failure to follow the procedures for a reaffirmation agreement. 
New penalties for refusal to credit the payment plan properly--again, $1,000 plus actual damages and attorneys fees when the creditor refuses to credit payments under a plan. 
New protection for debtors from unjustified motions for dismissal in the form of liability for the debtor's attorneys fees and costs. 
New penalties for creditors who fail to negotiate. If a creditor unreasonably refuses a good faith offer to settle before bankruptcy for 60 cents on the dollar, the court can decrease the creditor's claim by up to 20 percent. 
New penalties for violating the automatic stay--including actual damages and attorneys fees. 
New protections from credit card cancellation. A credit card company is prohibited from terminating a customer's account solely because the debtor has not incurred finance charges on the account. 
New credit card warnings and disclosures, including new initial disclosures, new periodic statement disclosures and new annual disclosures about the reality of paying off a balance by making only the minimum payment. 
A new study on disclosures for closed and 
open end credit secured by the debtor's house, to be conducted by the Federal Reserve Board, with authority to issue new disclosure regulations. 
A new Fed study on the sufficiency of current consumer protections on debit card liability and the authority to issue new disclosure regulations. 
A report from the comptroller general within 1 year on whether there are excessive extensions of credit to college students. 
And, the bill makes extensive reform to the bankruptcy laws in order to protect our children. The bill ensures that bankruptcy cannot be used by deadbeat dads to avoid paying child support and alimony obligations. The obligation to pay child support and alimony is moved to a first priority status under this legislation, as opposed to its current place at seventh in line, behind bankruptcy lawyers and other special interest. With this new law, debtors who owe child support will have to keep paying it when they file for bankruptcy, and they cannot obtain a discharge until they bring their child support and alimony obligations current. Also, if a debtor pays child support right before filing for bankruptcy, the child support payment can't be taken away from the kids. 
The National Association of Attorneys General has told me that they `applaud the provisions * * * that improve the tr4atment of domestic support obligations by ensuring that the spouse and children will continue to be able to collect support payments they are owed during the bankruptcy case and that debtors will not obtain a discharge until they have met their obligations to their spouse and children.' The attorneys general go on to say that `these are much needed additions to current law, and we strongly support these changes.' the National Child Support Enforcement Association has also written to me in support of these improvements to bankruptcy law because of the need `to strengthen and clarify the rights of separated families during and following bankruptcy proceedings.' 
In addition, this bill protects our children's educations. With this legislation, postsecondary education accounts will be protected in bankruptcy up to $50,000 per child or $100,000 in the aggregate. 
This bill also provides new and important protections for retirement savings. The AARP has stated, `The accumulation and preservation of retirement funds * * * represents an important national goal.' The AARP believes--and I agree with them--that retirement savings should be more uniformly protected, and that `Shielding retirement funds would reduce the likelihood that legitimate petitioners will be impoverished later in life.' Under this bill, retirement plan assets are categorically untouchable by creditors, even if State exemptions are otherwise claimed. 
Furthermore, this legislation keeps drunk drivers from using bankruptcy to get out of paying their victims the judgments they owe them. 
I simply can't believe that opponents of this legislation can say with a straight face that this legislation doesn't help the American people. 
About $40 billion in consumer debt will be erased this year in personal bankruptcies. 
Let me put this figure in perspective. $40 billion is enough to fund the entire U.S. Department of Transportation for a year, or to provide Pell grants to 13 million needy college students. 
It has been estimated that bankruptcies cost every American family about $400 per year. Apparently, critics of this legislation are content to throw this money away. But where I come from, $400 a family means something. It buys 5 weeks worth of groceries, 20 tanks of gas, 10 pairs of shoes for a grade school child, or more than a year's supply of diapers. 
Are opponents of this bill really comfortable with the status quo? Are they willing to throw away all of the important new consumer protections we have worked for in this bill? Are they willing to have retirement savings and educational savings exposed to the claims of creditors in bankruptcy? Are they willing to continue to let deadbeat dads use the U.S. bankruptcy system to get off the hook for child support? Are they willing to let drunk drivers use bankruptcy to get out of paying their victims? 
The only conclusion we can reach is that opponents of this legislation simply never wanted to see bankruptcy reform at all. Apparently, they are content to do nothing to curb the record increases in bankruptcy filings. They are willing to allow people to continue to `game' the bankruptcy system at the expense of honest, hardworking Americans. And, they are happy to sit idly by and do nothing when they see a $400 hidden bankruptcy tax imposed on every American family year after year. 
It is my sincere hope my colleagues will not derail this bill just to make a political statement, and instead vote their conscience on the substance, and support this bill. I am also hopeful that the President and his advisors will recognize the importance of this bill to the economy and to all consumers. 
In conclusion, Mr. President, I have heard these arguments from my colleagues on the other side that this process has not been a good process and all of their consumer protection items have been taken out of this bill. 
Look, I negotiated with the House on this, and we had to do it in a very intensive, tight framework. It was a very difficult thing to do. Let me go down through some of the new consumer protections that are in this bill, because nothing could be farther from the truth than for them to come out here and indicate there are no consumer protections. 
No. 1, we have a Debtor Bill of Rights in this bill, credit counseling; we have judicial review of reaffirmation; we have reaffirmation of disclosure requirements; we have penalties for pressuring debtors after discharge; we have penalties for abusive reaffirmation; we have penalties for refusal to credit payments; we have protections from unjustified motions; and penalties for failure to negotiate. 
This is all for the protection of consumers. Penalties for violating automatic stays, protection from credit card cancellations, credit card warnings and disclosures that we require, rules and study on disclosures, over 100 percent mortgage credit study; we have a study on debit card liability; we have a college student and credit card study. All of this is important, meaning we are going to continue to revisit this and do all of the things we can to do what is right here. 
We have child support protected, education savings protected, retirement savings protected; we have drunk-driving judgments are going to get paid. 
Now, there are a lot of consumer protections here. Look at this: `Americans agree bankruptcy should be based on need.'  
An individual who files for bankruptcy should be able to wipe out all their debt regardless of their ability to repay that debt. 
That is 10 percent of the people. 
The `DK refused,' 4 percent. 
An individual who files for bankruptcy should be required to pay as much of their debt as they are able to and then be able to wipe out the rest. 
Eighty-seven percent fit in that category. What does that mean to the American taxpayers and the real consumers in this country and everybody else who is paying for this ungodly process? About $40 billion in consumer debt will be erased this year in personal bankruptcy. First, $40 billion would fund the entire U.S. Department of Transportation for 1 year; second, provide Pell grants to 13 million needy college-bound students; third, `The Flawed System Costs Every American Household $400.' Just think about that. Last but not least, `Bankruptcies Cost American Families $400 a Year.' 
That $400 could buy a family of four 5 weeks of groceries, 20 tanks of unleaded gasoline 10 pairs of shoes for the average grade-school child, and more than 1 year's worth of disposable diapers. 
There is a lot we have done here. Is it perfect? No, because we have two bodies here that have to get together. 
I would also like to express any disappointment that despite hours and hours and numerous meetings between Democrats and Republicans, some say that the process was not fair or somehow excluded Democrat participation. 
I lived through years and years of Democrat control of this body, and the other body, and I have to tell you, they were not nearly as fair in most conferences as we have been here in trying to accommodate Democrats--when many did not want to. So we have tried to do it. I think it is just really very phony to go otherwise. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to express my support for this legislation to exchange school trust lands located in Utah to the federal government. This timely piece of legislation has the full support of the Utah delegation, the Governor of Utah, and the Clinton administration, as well as the PTA and local educators from across our state. It is, in some small measure, the result of the unfortunate situation created several years ago when President Clinton created the Grand Staircase Escalante Monument that withdrew hundreds of thousands of additional Utah school trust lands from benefitting Utah s school children. This bill represents the largest land exchange in the history of Utah. 
I commend the President for being willing to do this, the Secretary of the Interior for being willing to do this, and others on the floor, including my colleague, Senator Bennett, the chairman of the Energy Committee, Senator Murkowski, and the distinguished Senator from Arkansas, Senator Bumpers. Without their leadership and support, this legislation would not have been possible. I want to express that appreciation. This is a momentous day for the State of Utah that will leave a lasting legacy for our school children. 
This bill passed the House of Representatives in July and was approved by the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources last month. I am pleased the full Senate will consider it today and send it to the President. 
I and all the citizens of Utah have looked forward anxiously to this day, which has been a long time coming. 
When Utah became a state in 1896, Congress designated a portion of each township in the state to be set aside as School Trust Land which would be used to generate revenue for Utah's schools. The patchwork layout of these school trust lands across the state has historically created management difficulties between federal and state governments. As new national parks, forests, and monuments are designated, the school lands are often enveloped within them. This has the effect of closing off development of these lands and, therefore, any revenue they might produce for the school land trust fund. 
As of 1995, over 200,000 acres of school trust land, called inholdings, were isolated this way. As I mentioned, President Clinton doubled this amount with his designation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante Monument in 1996. 
At the time of the creation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante Monument, President Clinton gave numerous assurances that Utah's school children would not be hurt by this designation. H.R. 3830 represents the partial fulfillment of these promises. 
The Utah Schools and Lands Exchange Act is the culmination of long and careful deliberations between Governor Leavitt and Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt. As a result of this thorough and delicate planning, the act enjoys broad support from environmentalists, private landowners, educators, legislators, and the Administration. 
The bill exchanges approximately 350,000 acres of school trust lands located in Utah monuments, recreation areas, national parks, and forests to the Federal Government. To provide equitable compensation for these lands, Utah will receive cash, lands, mineral rights, coal deposits, and other Federal properties. I assure my colleagues that this is a fair and equitable exchange of assets. 
The land received by the Federal Government, totaling 376,739 acres of land and 65,853 acres of mineral rights, includes school trust areas that are similar in nature to the surrounding blocks of federal lands. By transferring these areas to the federal government, the land will fall under federal protection and management. 
Consolidation of these lands will be beneficial because land ownership will be harmonized, precious natural resources will be preserved and protected, and the American public will gain access to previously isolated areas. 
A number of priceless natural landmarks will come under the protection of the federal government as a result of this bill. These include: Eye of the Whale Arch, located in Arches National Park; ancient Native American ruins and the Jacob Hamblin Arch of Glen Canyon National Recreation Area; several hundred-foot red rock cliffs located within the Grand Staircase Escalante Monument; and the high mountain alpine area in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest known as Franklin Basin. Other natural wonders safeguarded through the exchange include: ancient Native American rock art panels in Dinosaur National Monument and unique geologic formations of the Waterpocket Fold within Capitol Reef National Park. 
Mr. President, H.R. 3830 addresses many land management problems which have plagued Utah for decades. Specifically, this measure helps solve a problem suffered by all states, such as Utah, having large tracts of federally owned or controlled land --that is, the starvation and lack of funding for our school systems which traditionally depend on property taxes for funding. 
The trust land system, developed by Congress in the 19th century during the period of westward expansion, was an attempt to offset the losses from the Federal Government's desire to protect certain lands. We are pleased that, after 2 years, the Clinton administration has delivered on this commitment. 
I especially want to commend Utah Governor Mike Leavitt for undertaking the task of painstaking identification of lands for exchange and for conducting these negotiations with the Interior Department. His determination and dedication to initiating this process cannot be understated. 
I also want to recognize the efforts of Utah's educators, parents, and school board members, who kept this issue on the front burner. Their dedication to resolving this serious funding helped drive these negotiations and ensure that nothing got bogged down. In short, land is land; but we needed to keep our eye on the ball, and that is our children. 
Again, I want to thank my friend and colleague, Senator Bennett, for his efforts on this bill. I know he shares my feeling of joy that this bill is finally coming to fruition. It means a great deal to improving education in our State, and I appreciate my colleagues' support. 
I yield to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to take just a moment to note the departure later this month of my Administrative Assistant, Robert Dibblee. Robert has served as my chief of staff for four years. He previously served a number of years with our former colleague, Senator Jake Garn. 
He has been my right-hand man, not only in running my office --running my life actually--but also on key land policy issues affecting Utah. I have really come to rely on him for advice and counsel as well as for accomplishing the myriad of tasks that face a Senate office. 
I want to use this public forum to recognize and thank Robert for his tireless efforts behind the scenes to keep the Utah Schools and Lands Exchange Act, just passed by the Senate, on track. From the day he arrived on my staff in 1993, I knew he would make my priority his own. I should mention that the first iteration of this legislation was my bill, S. 184, introduced during the 103rd Congress. The bill was enacted into law; but, unfortunately, the required land appraisals were never carried out by the Interior Department. And, the presidential designation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in 1996 doubled the number of acres of trust land that needed to be offset or compensated. 
Robert has worked practically on a daily basis on this issue with the Utah governor's office, the Interior Department, members and staff of the Senate Energy Committee, and with the staff of my colleagues in the Utah delegation, particularly Congressman Jim Hansen, without whose assistance as chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee we could not have passed the bill today. 
During this final week, Robert worked to break several logjams that could have sunk this legislation. Throughout the consideration of this bill, he has been a steady and reliable guide for this all-important bill to support education in Utah. 
Robert is moving on to be Vice President for Government Relations for the National Association of Independent Insurers. So, I say to my colleagues who do not yet know him: you will. And, you will appreciate working with him as much as I have. Robert Dibblee is a stand-up guy who does what is right and honorable; he won't try to pull the wool over your eyes; and he follows through on his commitments. 
I will miss having him as an integral part of my team, but I wish him well in this new, challenging assignment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to make a few very brief remarks about our inability to get a time agreement on the flag amendment, and respond to the assertion that it is somehow inappropriate to debate this important issue at this time. I think it is entirely appropriate that we debate the constitutional amendment to protect our flag at this time in the year. There is no better time than the present to discuss the values the flag represents: the unity and common values of all Americans. 
The flag amendment should, like the flag itself, unite us. And it does unite Americans of both parties. This amendment is cosponsored by 61 Members of the Senate, Republicans and Democrats. Senator Cleland, a war hero, who has sacrificed much, and who is a Democrat, is the primary cosponsor. 
And ultimately, all we supporters of the amendment are asking for is a chance to let the American people decide whether to protect the flag by debating the amendment in ratification debates in each of the State legislatures. And the people clearly want the flag amendment. Forty-nine State legislatures have called for the flag amendment. And polling has consistently shown that more than three-quarters of the American people have consistently supported a flag amendment over the years since the Supreme Court's fateful decision in Texas versus Johnson in 1989. 
Mr. President, I believe this legislation not only is vital to protect our shared values as Americans, but this debate is also timely today as we all strive to recover what is good and decent about our country. 
Mr. President, we see evidence of moral decay and a lack of standards all around us. Behavior that was once found to be shameful is now routinely excused because `everybody does it.' Our popular culture, including movies and television, bombard us with messages of gratuitous sex and violence. Even sports figures too often set a terrible example for the young people that follow their every move. 
And yet here today we have a unique opportunity to do something uplifting, something decent, something that will make our country proud. We have an opportunity to say to a few exhibitionists and anarchists that in pursuit of your fifteen minutes of fame, you may not deface the most sacred embodiment of the virtues of our country. You may not dishonor the memory of those millions of men and women who have given their lives for America. You may not yet again lower standards of elemental decency that all of must and should live by. Today, we will say that our flag, the embodiment of so many of our hopes and dreams, can no longer be dragged through the mud, torn asunder, or defecated on. 
Can anyone think of a better message to send to our citizens and to our young people than to begin to reclaim appropriate standards of behavior for everyone in this country? Mr. President, there will be those who will decry this discussion as a distraction from `real' and `important' matters of taxes and budgets and regulation and other Federal programs. These issues are important and the Congress must deal with them. But that should not obscure our inattention to the `values deficit' that exists in public life today. We need more public conversation about values and standards. We must take every opportunity to set the right behavioral standards for our children, lest we become a nation of cynics who snicker every time someone tries to reinstill virtue into public life. 
And so, Mr. President, not only is this discussion appropriate today, but it is critical. I can think of no more important conversation we can have in America than how we use American liberty to promote public virtue. 
Protecting the American flag from physical desecration is a small but important way to begin this important debate. 
Now, having said all that, I am disappointed that opponents of the flag amendment have rejected a reasonable time agreement, without even offering an alternative time agreement. I would be interested to know what would be acceptable. 
Finally, if it should be the case that we are not going to debate the flag amendment this year, and that is how it appears, I believe we should bring it up early in the new Congress, and debate and vote on it at the earliest opportunity next year. I want my colleagues to know that I will be back next year and I will trust that this important matter will be acted on early in the next session. The American people want the opportunity to debate the flag amendment in the States, and I believe we should listen to the people on this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to briefly discuss an issue of great importance to the Senate and the nation--juvenile crime. Over the past weeks, we have been working hard to try to reach consensus on comprehensive legislation to address juvenile crime in our nation. I am disappointed to report to my colleagues that we have fallen short in that effort. 
The sad reality is that we can no longer sit silently by as children kill children, as teenagers commit truly heinous offenses, as our juvenile drug abuse rate continues to climb. In 1996, juveniles accounted for nearly one fifth--19 percent--of all criminal arrests in the United states. Persons under 18 committed 15 percent of all murders, 17 percent of all rapes, and 32.1 percent of all robberies. 
And although there are endless statistics on our growing juvenile crime problem, one particularly sobering fact is that, between 1985 and 1993, the number of murder cases involving 15-year olds increased 207 percent. We have kids involved in murder before they can even drive. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me share with my colleagues some of what Ms. Cornwell, who has spent the better part of her adult life studying and observing crime and its effects, has to say. She says `when a person is touched by violence, the fabric of civility is forever rent, or ripped, or breached * * *.' This a graphic but accurate description. Countless lives can be ruined by a single violent crime. There is, of course, the victim, who may be dead, or scarred for life. There are the family and friends of the victim, who are traumatized as well, and who must live with the loss of a loved one. Society itself is harmed, when each of us is a little more frightened to walk on our streets at night, to use an ATM, or to jog or bike in our parks. And, yes, there is the offender who has chosen to throw his or her life away. Particularly when the offender is a juvenile, family, friends, and society are made poorer for the waste of potential in every human being. One crime, but permanent effects when `the fabric of civility is rent.' 
This is the reality that has driven me to 
work even up to the closing hours of the session to address this issue. For nearly a year, the Senate has had before it comprehensive youth violence legislation. S. 10, the Hatch-Sessions Violent and Repeat Juvenile Offender Act, was reported out of the Judiciary Committee last year on bipartisan vote, two to one vote. This legislation would have fundamentally reformed the role played by the federal government in addressing juvenile crime in our Nation. It was supported by law enforcement organizations such as the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, and the National Troopers Coalition, as well as the support of juvenile justice practitioners such as the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, and victim's groups including the National Victims Center and the National Organization for Victims Assistance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the `Controlled Substances Civil Penalty Reform Act of 1998,' S. 2600, legislation I have been developing for some months working in conjunction with Senator Gregg and the Appropriations Committee, our House colleague, Bill McCollum, and other interested parties including the Drug Enforcement Administration, the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, and the National Wholesale Druggists Association. 
This is a `good government' bill, legislation which I intend to correct a situation which has proven to be of great concern to America's drug stores, the wholesale community which supplies them, and America's consumers. 
As a House hearing amply documented last month, there have been a number of cases in which the Drug Enforcement Administration has imposed large fines for small, record-keeping errors committed by those the agency regulates, primarily drug stores and their suppliers. 
The DEA has a critical mission to combat diversion of controlled substances. This is of great national significance, and the agency should zealously pursue to the limits of the law those who traffic in illicit drugs. 
That being said, there is a difference between going after drug dealers and examining the records kept by legitimate wholesalers and pharmacies. Overzealously throwing the book at above-board businesses, who are doing so much to help America's consumers, for relatively minor record-keeping violations is not warranted. 
In 1997, these fines, which may be assessed at up to $25,000 per violation, totaled a substantial $12 million. But given the nature of some of the minor deficiencies, which I am advised are sometimes for trivial matters such as incorrect zip codes, the question must be raised whether this particular enforcement activity is operating more life a hidden tax or user fees than a meaningful deterrent to drug diversion. 
In short, S. 2600 amends the Controlled Substances Act in three important ways. First, it adds a negligence standard to current law, so that the government must prove that the record-keeping violation was due to a negligent act, rather than an unintended mistake or omission, prior to any fines being imposed. Second, it lowers the ceiling on these fines from `up to $25,000' per violation, to `up to $10,000' per violation. 
The third provision adds a number of needed standards that the Attorney General must consider before any fine is imposed. These include: whether diversion actually occurred; whether actual harm to the public resulted from the diversion; whether the violations were intentional or negligent in nature; whether the violations were a first time offense; the time intervals between inspections where no, or any serious, violations were found; whether the violations were multiple occurrences of the same type of violation; whether and to what extent financial profits may have resulted from the diversion; and the financial capacity of registrants to pay the fines assessed. 
Finally, my proposal makes clear that in determining whether to assess a penalty, the Attorney General may take into account whether the violator has taken immediate and effective corrective action, including demonstrating the existence of compliance procedures, in order to reduce the potential for any future violations. The Attorney General may also follow informal procedures such as sending one or more warning letters to the violator, as she determines appropriate. 
Mr. President, I recognize that our time is short for the remainder of this session. However, given Senator Gregg's significant interest in this issue, and the abundant work that Representative McCollum and I have devoted to this issue this year, I am hopeful this needed reform is something we can accomplish before we adjourn.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield myself such time as I need. 
Mr. President, I rise to speak on the nomination of Professor William Fletcher, nominee to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. I am pleased that the U.S. Senate is finally fully considering this nominee. 
Mr. Fletcher was first nominated during the 104th Congress on December 21, 1995. I do regret the fact that his nomination has languished for as long as it has, but I would like to comment on some of the obstacles that have hindered this nomination. 
First, all nominees to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals got bound up within the difficulties we were having with deciding whether or not to divide the Ninth Circuit. Once we established a commission to look into this matter, we have been able to process nominees to that court. 
Second, some had concerns--legitimate concerns--that Professor Fletcher's mother, Betty Fletcher, currently serves as a judge on the Ninth Circuit. There is a statute that appears to prevent two people, closely related by blood or marriage, from serving on the same court. Now, the Justice Department said that only applies to people less than the judiciary, but that was pure bunk as far as I was concerned. The statute is pretty clear. Yes, it is an old statute, but it is clear and it is a matter of great concern to me. To ensure compliance with that law--or to the best of my ability to make sure that this law is complied with, Judge Betty Fletcher has agreed to take senior status upon her son's confirmation, and Senator Kyl has introduced legislation, which passed the Senate last night, which I support, that will clarify the applicability of the so-called antinepotism statute. 
Just to say a little bit on that statute, it seems to me that it is very logical that we should not place persons of such close consanguinity on the same court that overviews 50 million people. Surely we can find people other than sons of mothers on the court. So Senator Kyl has made a splendid effort to try to resolve this matter. He indicated in our Judiciary Committee this morning that, as a matter of principle, he would have to vote against Professor Fletcher because he feels that the statute does apply. I tried to resolve it by chatting with Judge Betty Fletcher who has agreed to take senior status upon her son's confirmation. 
Now that these obstacles have been removed, I am pleased that we are voting on Mr. Fletcher and would like to express my considered view that he should be confirmed. 
I am the first to say that I may not agree with all of Professor Fletcher's views on Federal courts and procedure, the separation of powers, or constitutional interpretation. But the question is not whether I agree with all of his views, or whether a Republican President would or would not nominate such a candidate. The President is entitled to have his nominees confirmed, provided that the nominee is well qualified and will abide by the appropriate limitations on Federal judges. 
I recognize that this is especially important for nominees to the Ninth Circuit and concur wholeheartedly with those of my colleagues who believe that the Ninth Circuit has literally gone out of control. I agree with the distinguished Senator from Alabama that that circuit is out of line and out of control. It is often reversed. It has a 75 percent reversal rate over the last number of decades because of these activist judges on that bench. But Professor Fletcher has personally assured me that he would follow precedent, that he would interpret and enforce the law, not make laws from the bench. 
I believe Professor Fletcher is a man of honor and integrity and that he will live up to his word and, in fact, I hope Professor Fletcher, who is an expert on civil procedure, can actually help rein in some of the more radical forces on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. 
Professor Fletcher clearly is highly qualified. He is a graduate of the Yale Law School, he clerked for a Supreme Court Justice, and is considered an eminent legal scholar. That consideration is justified. Although some of his writings may push the envelope of established legal thinking, as often happens in the case of professors of law, we should recognize that this is the role of academics. I made that point during the Bork nomination when my colleagues on the other side were finding fault with many of the positions that Judge Bork had taken in some of his writings, many of which he repudiated later, but all of which were provocative and intended to create debate on the respective subjects. 
In short, I believe Professor Fletcher is within the mainstream of American legal thought just as several Republican nominees such as Antonin Scalia, Frank Easterbrook, Richard Posner, and Ralph Winter were when they were nominated, and this body should confirm him today. 
I hope my colleagues will confirm Professor Fletcher. 
Today the Judiciary Committee voted out 15 judicial nominees and 4 U.S. attorneys. This year we have held hearings for 111 out of 127 nominees. 
If all of the judges who are now pending on the Senate floor are confirmed, as I expect they will be, we will end this Congress having confirmed 106 judges, resulting in a vacancy rate of 5.4 percent. This will be the lowest vacancy rate since the judiciary was expanded in 1990. 
Also, over 50 percent of the judges confirmed this year, to date, by this Republican Senate have been women and/or minorities. 
Given the fact that over the last five Congresses the average number of article III judges confirmed is 96, I think this Republican majority has done very well to this point, and will continue to do so. Can we do better? Always. I am sure we can. And we will certainly try to do better during this coming year, and I intend to do better during the coming year. 
At this particular point, we are concerned about Professor William Fletcher, who I believe is highly qualified for this job. Even though I don't agree with him on everything that he believes, or everything that he has taught, the fact of the matter is he is qualified, he is a decent man, and he should be confirmed here today. 
Although Professor Fletcher's nomination has taken quite a while to be brought up for a vote, I do not think anyone can fairly criticize the work the Judiciary Committee has done this year, especially during the last few weeks of this session. On Tuesday of this week, Senator Specter chaired a hearing for 11 nominees. Nine of those 11 nominees were received by the Committee only within the last month. I am told that, according to the Department of Justice, the hearing Senator Specter chaired broke a record for the most nominees on a single hearing. 
To date, the Republican Senate has already confirmed 80 judges. And today, that number will rise to 84, if Professor Fletcher and the other judges that will be brought up for a vote are confirmed--as I wholly expect they will. As I stated earlier, if all of the nominees now pending on the Senate floor are confirmed, the Senate will adjourn having confirmed 106 Article III judges. 
Again, this will leave a judicial vacancy rate of only 5.6 percent. Keep in mind that the Clinton administration is on record as having stated that a vacancy rate of just over 7 percent is considered virtual full employment of the Federal judiciary. 
I do not think anyone can legitimately argue that the Judiciary Committee has not done its job well. Yes, there have been some controversial Clinton nominees that have moved slowly or not at all, but sometimes nominees come to the Committee with problems that prevent their nominations from going forth. I am pleased to say that although some thought the problems relating to Professor Fletcher's nomination could not be worked out, they ultimately have been. I fully expect that Professor Fletcher will be confirmed today and I will vote for him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time does the distinguished Senator from Washington desire? I yield 5 minutes or such time as he needs to the distinguished Senator from Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I submit a report of the committee of conference on the bill (H.R. 2281) amend title 17, United States Code, to implement the World Intellectual Property Organization Copyright Treaty and Performance and Phonograms Treaty, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the conference report be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the conference report be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, in the wining days of a Congress, so many important measures need attention that the significance of individual bills is often not appreciated. This is even more true for a bill that has copyright as its subject matter, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the conference report which passed the Senate today by unanimous consent. But the DMCA is one of the most important bills passed this session, as the distinguished majority leader stated yesterday. 
`Digital Millennium' may seem grandiose, but in fact it accurately describes the purpose of the bill--to set copyright law up to meet the promise and the challenge of the digital world in the new millennium. Digital `world' is appropriate here, because the Internet has made it possible for information--including valuable American copyrighted works--to flow around the globe in a matter of hours, and Internet end users can receive copies of movies, music, software, video games and literary and graphic works that are as good as the originals. Indeed, the initial impetus for the DMCA was the implementation of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) treaties on copyright and on performances and phonorecords. 
The WIPO treaties and the DMCA will protect the property rights of Americans in their work as they move in the global, digital marketplace, and, by doing so, continue to encourage the creation of new works to inspire and delight us and to improve the quality of our lives. 
In addition to securing copyright in the global, digital environment, the DMCA also clarifies the liability of on-line and Internet service providers--OSPs and ISPs--for copyright infringement liability. The OSPs and ISPs needed more certainty in this area in order to attract the substantial investments necessary to continue the expansion and upgrading of the Internet. 
The final component of the DMCA is the Vessel Hull Design Protection, Act (VHDPA). This legislation was not part of the Senate-passed version of the DMCA; rather, it was accepted by the Senate conferees in deference to the House of Representatives. Although I support the idea of industrial design protection as a legal regime outside of patent law, I appreciate how controversial it is, and I think that the Senate should act circumspectly. Furthermore, I am concerned that this bill is not like traditional industrial design protection in that the VHDPA protects the functionality of vessel hulls, not only its aesthetic aspects. 
But because the VHDPA is limited only to boat hulls, I felt that I could acquiesce in including it in the conference report as a limited experiment in design protection. In order to make it truly experimental, I suggested, and the conferees adopted, modifications that `sunset' the bill two years after enactment and that require two studies of its effect. Therefore, in the future, we will be able to re-evaluate the Act, and we will have the benefit of two studies--both of them conducted jointly by the Register of Copyrights and the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks--to help us make the right decision. 
In the nearer future--early in the next session--I intend to focus my attention on database protection legislation. The House bill on this issue, which was attached by the House to the WIPO implementation legislation, was a good start toward tackling the problem of database piracy. It was quite controversial, however, so I asked the parties to sit down with me to work out a compromise bill, so that disagreements on database protection would not jeopardize the DMCA. This effort resulted in a bill draft that attempted to accommodate the diverging interests. The scientific research community, in particular, favored my approach because it allayed many of their fears that recognizing a property right in databases would hamper scientific research. 
Neither the House bill nor my proposal was accepted by the conferees, but I am determined to work on this issue in the next Congress. Indeed, I intend to introduce a bill based on my proposal, have a hearing on database protection, and move database legislation as quickly as possible. We need to encourage the substantial investment of money, time and labor that it takes to gather and organize information and at the same time address the reasonable concerns of information users. In our global, high tech era, information will be the coin of the realm, and I see database protection as the next step in moving the law into the digital millennium. 
In closing, I would like to recognize the many people who brought this bill to a successful conclusion. First, I would like to thank my colleague, Senator Patrick Leahy, the distinguished ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, who was of invaluable assistance in getting this important piece of legislation passed. Two other distinguished colleagues, Senator Storm Thurmond and Senator John Ashcroft, participated in the refining process that made the DMCA a better bill. 
Second, I want to thank the House conferees, especially Congressman Henry Hyde, the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Congressman Howard Coble, the distinguished chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts and Intellectual Property, and Congressman Tom Bliley, the distinguished chairman of the Commerce Committee for their willingness to consider the Senate's views objectively and dispassionately. They too wanted to get this done, and it was the spirit of cooperation on both sides that produced this admirable result. 
Finally, I would like to acknowledge the hard work done by the Senate and House staffs. There were so many who worked on this bill that it would take a column of the Congressional Record to list them. But I would like to mention just a few. Manus Cooney, the staff director and chief counsel of the Senate Judiciary Committee, was the staff pilot for the DMCA. He was ably assisted by Edward Damich, Chief Intellectual Property Counsel of the Committee, and Staff Assistant Troy Dow. Senator Thurmond was ably assisted in the conference committee by his Judiciary Committee Counsel, Garry Malphus. 
Bruce Cohen, Minority Chief Counsel and Staff Director of the Judiciary Committee, Beryl Howell, Minority General Counsel, and Marla Grossman, Minority Counsel, provided invaluable assistance on all levels. We had superb cooperation from the minority, and the DMCA is truly a bipartisan bill. 
Turning to the House side, I want to express my appreciation for the contributions of Mitch Glazier, Chief Counsel of the Subcommittee on Courts and Intellectual Property, Debra Laman, Counsel of the Subcommittee, Robert Raben, Minority Counsel of the Subcommittee, Justin Lilley, General Counsel of the Commerce Committee, and Andrew Levin, Minority Counsel of that Committee.  
Mr. President, this bill, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, is one of the most important bills in this whole Congress. It has taken a tremendous amount of effort from all of us to be able to put this together. It is going to make a difference in so many ways--in the protection of copyrighted works, in digital communication and otherwise--throughout the world, that I feel very, very happy to be able to say that this is being enacted into law at this particular point. 
I would like to state my agreement with certain important points that Senator Leahy made in his remarks about Section 1201(k), `Certain Analog Devices and Certain Technological Measures.' The Senator emphasized that that section establishes requirements only for analog videocassette recorders, analog videocassette camcorders and professional analog videocassette recorders. It is also my understanding that the intent of the conferees is that these provisions apply only to analog video recording devices. 
In addition, because innovation and technological development thrive in unregulated environments, this section should not be misconstrued as providing any impetus or precedent for regulating or otherwise dictating to the computer software industry technological standards. I agree fully with the assessment of the conferees that technology develops best and most rapidly in response to marketplace forces. For these reasons, this section applies to analog technologies only, and it is entirely without prejudice to digital technologies. 
Let me just say that I am disappointed that we were not able to include database protection in this bill this year. There are so many people who would like to have that done, on the floor and in the business world and elsewhere, but we were unable to get it done because of objections and because of some dissent. But I would like to put everybody on notice that, shortly after we get back next year, I will file a database protection bill. I believe my colleague from Vermont will join me in this. That, hopefully, will be a bill that everybody can support, because it is absolutely critical that we get this done. 
It will be one of the highest orders of priority that we will have on the Senate Judiciary Committee next year. It was one of the things that I feel disappointed we were unable to get done on this particular bill. It just could not be done at this time. I know there are people who are disappointed, but we will get it done next year--we will do everything we can to get it done, and I hope we can call upon industry and everyone else interested in this issue throughout the country to help us in this matter. 
I hope our colleagues will, because it is very, very important.  
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as my colleague well knows, I have facilitated a number of meetings with interested parties from all sides of this issue to try to work out a consensus bill. Obviously more work needs to be done to pass a bill that is acceptable to all sides. This is an important issue, and I think everyone understands that. The Senator from Ohio has my assurance that I will continue to work with him on this issue.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me assure my friend from Ohio that I have spoken to our colleagues on the House side, Congressmen Hyde and Coble, and we have agreed to work together to introduce and seek passage of database protection legislation early next year. I will continue to work with the Senator from Ohio and our Senate and House colleagues and address this issue early next year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As I understand, the conference report has been agreed to. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the conference report was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my friend, the Senator from Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19981008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will my colleague yield for 1 other minute? I promised I would yield to the distinguished Senator from Arizona. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce today the `Fairness in Asbestos Compensation Act of 1998'. With me, sponsoring this important legislation are: Senator Dodd, Senator Ascroft, Senator Lieberman, Senator Sessions and Senator Torricelli. 
Asbestos litigation is a national crisis. Today, state and federal courts are overwhelmed by up to 150,000 asbestos lawsuits. Over 30,000 new suits are added to the dockets annually. Unfortunately, those that are truly sick with asbestosis and various asbestos-related cancers and illnesses spend years in court before receiving any compensation, and then lose 60% of that compensation to attorneys' fees and other costs. The best available data show that on average asbestos suits take 31 months to reach resolution, compared to 18 months for other product liability suits. One cause of this extraordinary delay in compensation is the large number of lawsuits filed by those who, without any symptoms or signs of asbestos-related illness, bring suits for future medical monitoring and fear of cancer. 
In a lottery-like system, juries award enormous compensation and outrageous punitive damages to non-impaired plaintiffs, while others in identical cases or with actual illness receive little or no compensation. Excessive Damage awards, along with the transaction costs associated with the lawsuits, deplete the financial resources of defendant companies and lead them to file for bankruptcy. As legal and financial resources are tied up and exhausted, it is increasingly unclear whether those who are truly inflicted with asbestos-caused diseases will be able to recover anything at all in the years ahead. 
Courts have tried unsuccessfully to cope with and alleviate the problems associated with the more than half a million asbestos cases. The major parties involved attempted to compromise on a fair and equitable solution that included prompt compensation. The Third Circuit Court of Appeals overturned one such compromise, known as the Amchem or Georgine agreement, on civil procedural rule grounds but found the settlement to be `arguably a brilliant partial solution.' Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, writing for the Supreme Court, upheld the Appellate decision and stated, `[t]he argument is sensibly made that a nationwide administrative claims processing regime would provide the most secure, fair and efficient means of compensating victims of asbestos exposure. Congress, however, has not adopted such a solution.' The Court accurately recognized that Congress is the most appropriate body to resolve the asbestos crisis. That is what we intend to do by introducing this important legislation. 
Mr. President, by virtue of the hundreds of thousands of cases that already have been litigated in the court system, the legal and scientific issues relating to asbestos litigation have been thoroughly explored and punishments have been exacted on defendant companies. Recognizing the potential dangers of asbestos exposure, we have seen asbestos consumption in the United States drop to historic lows since peak consumption in the early 1970's. These factors along with the recent court decisions demonstrate that the asbestos litigation issue is now ripe for a legislative solution. 
The bill that I introduce today will correct the asbestos litigation crisis problems. It is crafted to reflect as closely as possible the original settlement agreed to by the involved parties in the Amchem settlement. This bill will eliminate the asbestos litigation burden in the courts, get fair compensation for those who currently are sick, and enable the businesses to manage their liabilities in order to ensure that compensation will be available for future claimants. It is important to note that no tax-payer money will fund this bill. It will be entirely funded by asbestos defendants. 
Specifically, the bill reforms asbestos litigation in the judicial system by establishing a national claims facility to provide fair and prompt compensation for persons suffering from asbestos-associated illnesses. Eligibility for compensation will be determined by objective predetermined criteria. The legislation provides for alternative dispute resolution and allows plaintiffs who go through the system without resolving their claims through the claims facility to use the tort system. Again no taxpayer dollars will fund this facility or any part of this program. 
I have carefully crafted this legislation so that it is at least as favorable--and, in many cases, more favorable--to claimants as the original Amchem settlement. As this bill makes its way through the legislative process, I look forward to working with my colleagues to further refine the language in order to achieve the maximum public benefit from this legislation. 
Mr. DODD: Mr. President, I am pleased to join with my colleague, Senator Hatch, to introduce the `Fairness in Asbestos Compensation Act of 1998.' This legislation would expedite the provision of financial compensation to the victims of asbestos exposure by establishing a nationwide administrative system to hear and adjudicate their claims. 
Mr. President, millions of American workers have been exposed to asbestos on the job. Tragically, many have contracted asbestos-related illness, which can be devastating and deadly. Others will surely become similarly afflicted. These individuals--who have or will become terribly ill due to no fault to their own--deserve swift and fair compensation to help meet the costs of health care, lost income, and other economic and non-economic losses. 
Unfortunately, many victims of asbestos exposure are not receiving the efficient and just treatment they deserve from our legal system. Indeed, it can be said that the current asbestos litigation system is in a state of crisis. Today, more than 150,000 lawsuits clog the state and federal courts. In 1996 alone, more than 36,000 new suits were filed. Those who have been injured by asbestos exposure must often wait years for compensation. And when that compensation finally arrives, it is often eaten up by attorneys' fees and other transaction costs. 
In the early 1990's, an effort was made to improve the management of federal asbestos litigation. Cases were consolidated, and a settlement to resolve them administratively was agreed to between defendant companies and plaintiffs' attorneys. This settlement also obtained the backing of the Building and Construction Trades Union of the AFL-CIO. Regrettably, the settlement was overturned by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in 1996. Though the Court termed the settlement `arguably a brilliant partial solution,' it found that the class of people created by the settlement--namely, those exposed to asbestos--was too large and varied to be certified pursuant to Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The Supreme Court affirmed that decision. In its decision, the Court effectively invited the Congress to provide for the existence of such a settlement as a fair and efficient way to resolve asbestos litigation claims. 
Hence this bill. In simple terms, it codifies the settlement reached between companies and the representatives of workers who were exposed to asbestos on the job. It would establish a body to review claims by those who believe that they have become ill due to exposure to asbestos. It would provide workers with mediation and binding arbitration to promote the fair and swift settlement of their claims. It would allow plaintiffs to seek additional compensation if their non-malignant disease later developed into cancer. And it would limit attorneys' fees so as to ensure that a claimant receives a just portion of any settlement amount. 
All in all, Mr. President, this is a good bill. I commend Senator Hatch for his leadership in crafting it. However, it is not a perfect bill. My office has received comments on the bill from representatives of a number of parties affected by asbestos litigation. I hope and expect that those comments will be given the consideration that they deserve by the Judiciary Committee and the full Senate as this legislation moves forward, as I hope it will early in the 106th Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to offer my congratulations to the Council for Responsible Nutrition (CRN), which is now celebrating its 25th anniversary. 
For over a quarter of a century, the members of CRN have been working to enhance the public's health by promoting wise dietary choices and the appropriate use of nutritional supplements. CRN's work with federal legislators and policy makers has helped to ensure that consumers have access to a variety of quality nutritional products and to accurate information about the health benefits of these products. 
Over 100 million Americans are using dietary supplements daily. There is ample--and growing--scientific evidence that dietary supplements can help promote good health. To cite but one example, for many years, we have known that use of folic acid during pregnancy can reduce the risk of birth defects. Now it appears it can help prevent heart disease as well. 
One of the most significant achievements of which I have been a part, as a Senator for the last 22 years, has been the passage of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) of 1994. I worked closely with the CRN in passing this bill, and I am extremely grateful to them for their insights and expertise, which were integral to the success of this endeavor. 
I am pleased to have had such a positive relationship with CRN and look forward to working with this fine Association for many years in the future to help Americans live healthier lives. Again, my congratulations to the Council for Responsible Nutrition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19981001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce to my colleagues Reverend Allen Novotny. He is our guest Chaplain today and I hope some of you will take the time to introduce yourself. Fr. Novotny is the President of Gonzaga College High School, a Jesuit high school for boys located only a few blocks away from the Capitol. 
In 1821, the Jesuits founded Gonzaga which operates in the tradition of teaching and learning established by the founder of the Jesuits, Ignatius of Loyola. Throughout our nation's history--through the Civil War, the Great Depression, the World Wars, and the civil rights movement, Gonzaga has maintained its commitment to teaching and learning in the heart of Washington's inner-city, on a street it shares with leaders of business and government, on a block where it ministers to and comforts the least fortunate of society. 
It is both ironic and appropriate that Gonzaga be situated just a few blocks from our nation's Capitol Building. Gonzaga, like so much of the United States, is a melting pot. Gonzaga combines the largest minority population of any Jesuit High School in the United States with one of the lowest tuitions in the Washington area. Gonzaga is a realized mission of social and economic diversity that offers all who attend the school a glimpse of the full life spectrum. Gonzaga combines service to the community--taking the form of service projects both in the U.S. and abroad, student-assisted tutoring for underprivileged children, and an on-campus, student-assisted McKenna Center & Food Wagon homeless shelter--with top academics and athletics. Gonzaga is, in other words, a complete educational experience. 
I hope my colleagues will take the time to learn more about Gonzaga's special character. Gonzaga has served the Washington community well and, under the steady leadership of Fr. Novotny, I believe it will continue to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to introduce today a bill to amend title 36 of the U.S. Code, to codify certain laws related to patriotic and national organizations that were enacted after the cut-off date for the title 36 codification recently enacted by Public Law 105-225. The bill makes technical corrections in title 36 and repeals obsolete and unnecessary provisions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to commend my colleague, the distinguished Senator from Connecticut, for his initiative on this particular amendment, as well as his contributions to this legislation as a whole. 
We have worked closely on several issues on this bankruptcy legislation, including providing for enhanced protection of domestic and child support payments in bankruptcy. And I have appreciated both his and his staff's dedication, sincerity, and cooperation on this important bankruptcy legislation. 
I am sure my colleague, the chairman of the subcommittee, Senator Grassley, feels the same way. 
Mr. President, this amendment is well intentioned. I fully support the policy of providing enhanced protections for educational savings accounts in bankruptcy. That is why we have agreed to this amendment. However, Senator Dodd is aware that I have some concerns with the amendment as currently drafted, because it may have the unintended consequence of encouraging and rewarding fraud and abuse in bankruptcy. 
I thank the Senator from Connecticut for agreeing to work with us on this amendment as this legislation progresses to ensure that it will do just what it is intended to do; that is, protect funds that have been set aside for the education of the child of the debtor. 
Some of my specific concerns include the fact that under the amendment as currently drafted the debtor will not have to disclose the existence of these accounts in any way in the bankruptcy case, or the schedules filed with the court because they are deemed `not the property of the estate.' The trustees will not even know these accounts exist, and they cannot be audited. 
I would like to see these accounts to be created exempt properties of the estate of the bankrupt similar to the treatment we have given pension plans and retirement savings accounts in this legislation. 
Moreover, we need to place some limits on these accounts to prevent them from becoming bankruptcy shelters for those seeking to abuse the bankruptcy system as a financial planning tool. 
Again, this could be done by placing limits similar to those we have imposed on individual retirement accounts and the way we have done that. 
Finally, we need to ensure that the funds protected in such accounts will actually be spent on the education of the bankrupt's child, not simply withdrawn after bankruptcy to be used as the bankruptcy wishes, leaving the future education of the child in jeopardy. 
I know that the Senator from Connecticut shares my concerns that this amendment not provide a new means for fraud and abuse. 
Again, I thank him and his staff for their willingness to work with us to address these concerns. 
Mr. GRASSLEY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to engage in a discussion with the distinguished Senator from Florida on the substance of this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I agree with the view that there appears to be a workload problem facing a number of district courts in Florida and some other areas. The Senate Judiciary Committee intends to act to review the matter and where necessary provide the additional judicial resources to those jurisdictions in need, if warranted and appropriate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As I have indicated to my colleague, I will, as the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, review this matter early next year and work with my colleague from Iowa, Senator Grassley, in a good-faith effort to consider this issue early next year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me take a moment to speak about an amendment that has not been discussed in the last several days. Under the unanimous-consent agreement, I am permitted and had planned to offer a scaled-down version of broadly supported and bipartisan patent reform legislation, which was favorably reported to the Senate by the Judiciary Committee more than a year ago. Nevertheless, having spoken with the majority leader, and in the interest of expediting activity on pending Senate business, I have agreed to withhold my amendment. 
But I want to take a moment to clarify why I believe this amendment is so important. In short, the provisions of this amendment represent the most important and most comprehensive reforms to our nation's patent system in nearly half a century. In the last 50 years, our nation has witnessed an explosion of technology growth and a tremendous expansion of the global market for American intellectual property. Yet our patent laws have remained largely unchanged. My bill would effect those changes that are necessary to bring our patent system up to speed with the growing demands of the global economy, to preserve American competitiveness into the 21st century, and to ensure adequate protection for American innovators, both at home and abroad. 
In all, there have been nine days of hearings and 78 witnesses who have testified in the House and Senate on the provisions of this legislation. Seventeen of those witnesses appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee. In addition, I have engaged in endless negotiations to address concerns regarding the effect of the bill on small businesses and independent inventors. The result of that process was a comprehensive package of amendments that was endorsed by the Judiciary Committee, including several outspoken opponents of the original bill, in an overwhelming bipartisan 17-1 vote last year. Since then, I have sought a vote on the Senate floor for this legislation, thus far without success. 
The failure to bring this bill to a vote in the Senate has largely been the result of the opposition of a very few Senators who have objected to even its consideration by the full Senate. Over the past year, I have made numerous additional changes to the bill in an attempt to address their concerns. As a result of those changes, the bill now enjoys even broader support, ranging from the smallest of American entrepreneurs and innovators to Fortune 100 companies. It is endorsed by the small business community, as well as by the experts on the subject, including 5 of the past 6 commissioners of the Patent and Trademark Office and thousands of patent practitioners and patent owners. Unfortunately, despite my efforts, and despite this broad support, a vocal minority, which apparently opposes any patent reform, continues to object this bill. Repeated invitations to sit down with them to fashion a reasonable accommodation have been rejected. 
Mr. President, at some point, the interests of inventors, the continued strength of our intellectual property base, consumers, and an overwhelming majority of the Senate must prevail over the interests of the few who would oppose any patent reform. I believe that this legislation must be debated and real patent reforms enacted if America is to retain its competitive edge into the next century. 
In acceding to the majority leader's request to refrain from exercising my rights in offering this bill as an amendment to the bankruptcy bill, I am relying on his assurance that this patent reform legislation will be brought up for floor consideration and a vote early next year, with the expectation being that we complete action on the measure prior to March 1999. I would reiterate my willingness and desire to work with my colleagues to resolve any outstanding concerns, and I hope any Senator who still has genuine concerns with this bill will take me up on my offer. 
I look forward to working with my colleagues and to seeing reasonable patent reforms enacted by the Senate next year.  
DRUNK-DRIVING VICTIMS 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, S. 1301, the Consumer Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1998, was reported out of the Judiciary Committee with strong bipartisan support and is one of the most important legislative efforts to reform the bankruptcy laws in 20 years. 
I would like to begin by commending my colleagues, Senators Grassley and Durbin, respectively, the chairman and ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts, for their tireless efforts in crafting this much needed legislation. I also want to thank them for conducting numerous important hearings at the subcommittee level on the complex issue of bankruptcy reform. I particularly appreciate the dedication they have shown to making the passage of this bill an inclusive and bipartisan process. 
The compelling need for reform is underscored by the dramatic rise in bankruptcy filings each year. The Bankruptcy Code was liberalized back in 1978, and ever since that time, consumer bankruptcy filings have gone up at an unprecedented rate. Even during the economic boom years of 1994 to 1997, consumer bankruptcy filings almost doubled. 
Mr. President, the bankruptcy system was intended to provide a `fresh start' for those who need it. We need to preserve the bankruptcy system within limits to allow individuals to emerge from financial ruin, which may have been precipitated by unforeseen events such as medical problems or unemployment. What we don't need is to preserve those elements of the system that allow it to be abused, and that allow some debtors to use bankruptcy as a financial planning tool rather than as a last resort. I firmly believe that by allowing people to escape from their financial obligations, we are doing them a great disservice by not encouraging them to manage their finances and control their debt. 
It always has been my view that individuals should take personal responsibility for their debts, and repay them to the extent possible. Under the present system, it is too easy for debtors who have the ability to repay some of what they owe to file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Under Chapter 7, debtors can liquidate their assets and discharge all debt, while protecting certain assets from liquidation, irrespective of their income. Mr. President, I believe that the complete extinguishing of debt should be reserved for debtors who truly cannot repay their debts. 
According to the Wall Street Journal (Nov. 8, 1996) bankruptcy protection laws give an alarming number of `obscure, but perfectly legal places for anyone to hide assets.' For instance, one Virginia multimillionaire incurred massive debt, but under State law was entitled to keep certain household goods, farm equipment, and `one horse.' This particular individual opted to keep a $640,000 race horse, noting that the law only limits the number of horses, but not the individual value of a horse. 
While this is a particularly egregious example, these kinds of loopholes exist in the Bankruptcy Code, and people are using them to avoid paying their debts. As a result, the rest of us end up footing the bill through higher prices and higher interest rates. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we know that only about 22 percent of the American people who are on minimum wage are people who have households to support. Almost every job on minimum wage is given to somebody who literally needs a job, would not otherwise have that opportunity and probably would have his or her job chances diminished if the minimum wage is increased. 
We found that to be the case year after year after year. 
You cannot mandate increased labor costs without adverse impacts. What are those impacts? 
Decreased employment opportunities, particularly for teenagers, and others, who are in the worst condition, with few skills and employment barriers. In large part, these reductions will be fewer jobs created, the elimination of certain services, such as bagging groceries or having them loaded in your car, or having services performed less frequently. 
Higher prices for goods and services. The minimum wage is an ineffective antipoverty policy. Why? Because three-quarters of those earning the minimum wage are not heads of households or do not live in poor families--three-quarters of them. Most of these jobs are taken by people who are not from the poorest of the poor. Since the minimum wage increase cannot be targeted only to those who need it, the likelihood is that those with more experience, maturity, or skills will get or retain entry-level jobs and those who need a first-chance job the most are going to lose out. 
Also, higher minimum wages stifle entry-level training opportunities. Workers have typically `paid for' their training and introductory work experience by working at entry-level wages. Mandating a higher minimum wage makes entry-level opportunities less available and our workforce less prepared for greater skills and opportunities down the line. 
It is a myth that workers get `stuck' at minimum wages. Within a year, the average minimum wage earners get a 20 percent increase or even higher wage increase based on his or her greater skill level and experience. 
Higher wages act as an incentive for some youth to leave school to take jobs. 
So what is worse is that this adverse impact is for nothing. Those very individuals who need entry-level jobs the most are the ones most likely to be displaced by the increased competition for them. Frankly, hiking the minimum wage is not the only way to assist working Americans and those struggling to make ends meet. Let's work on some of these ideas. 
Personally, I would like to raise people's paychecks by cutting their taxes. That would increase their paychecks without the risk that they might lose their jobs. And I think we can work together on education. We passed the A+ education bill. Let's tackle illiteracy, and let's do it this way rather than through this really untried procedure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I oppose the amendment. Under the provision, in any 707(b) case brought by a creditor, the court would consider whether the creditor had used good faith in the extension of credit. This determination necessarily would involve looking at underwriting decisions. 
The bankruptcy court shall not be asked to interfere in the complicated process of making credit underwriting decisions. This is particularly true when current underwriting practices are quite successful, with an average of 95 to 97 percent of consumer credit extended today repaid on time. 
Mr. President, this amendment permits new uncontrolled and virtually unlimited inquiries into creditor conduct. It encourages complicated and involved discovery and burdensome court proceedings. It introduces unwarranted defenses to strong enforcement of the needs-based provisions of S. 1301, this bill. 
The amendment permits a debtor to avoid repaying all his creditors by attacking the good faith of any creditor who brings a motion to enforce the needs-based provisions. And the amendment has no standard for what is good faith. So this is a killer amendment. 
Moreover, S. 1301 already contains numerous provisions to make sure creditors are acting appropriately. As I have noted in my previous remarks, this is a well balanced bill that is a combination of months and months of deliberations and cooperation between Senators Grassley and Durbin and other members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. They, along with other members of the Judiciary Committee, have done a fine job in ensuring that this bill is a fair bill. This balanced and broadly supported legislation not only curbs abuses of the bankruptcy system but also provides unprecedented consumer protections. 
Let me begin by saying being a creditor and winding up in bankruptcy court to collect unpaid bills is not a desirable situation for any creditor. Creditors who deal with debtors in bankruptcy, even in the best of circumstances, are likely to recover only pennies on every dollar they are owed. 
In any event, S. 1301 already contains nine provisions with rather severe penalties to creditors for improper behavior. We have given due consideration to these concerns. 
First, if a creditor brings a motion to dismiss a chapter 7 case and fails, the debtor gets attorney's fees and costs if the creditor was not substantially justified or if the creditor filed the motion in an effort to coerce the debtor. 
Second, if a creditor unreasonably refuses a debtor's offer to work out a repayment schedule, the creditor is barred from asserting any claim of nondischargeability or any claim of denial of discharge. 
Third, if a creditor willfully violates the automatic stay, the creditor pays the debtor's attorney's fees, actual damages, and punitive damages, if appropriate. We have really gone a long way here. 
Fourth, if a creditor fails to comply with the requirements for a reaffirmation agreement, the court can order heavy sanctions and penalties. 
Fifth, the legislation will make it much harder for creditors to get determinations of nondischargeability. Only false representations by a debtor that are considered `material' will be actionable. If a creditor makes an unsuccessful claim of nondischargeability or denial of discharge, the creditor is liable for the debtor's attorney's fees, costs, and punitive damages, if the creditor's claim is not substantially justified. The reverse is not true. If the creditor wins the nondischargeability proceeding, the debtor does not have to pay the creditor's attorney's fees. So it isn't reversible. 
Sixth, if a creditor willfully violates the postdischarge injunction, the creditor is liable for minimum damages of $5,000 and attorney's fees and costs, with the possibility of treble damages. 
Seventh, if a creditor fails to comply with Truth in Lending Act requirements for certain mortgage loans, the creditor's claim will not be recognized or paid in bankruptcy. For instance, if a creditor does not provide for certain disclosures, or fails to meet the requirements of the act, even if it is a technical violation, the creditor's claim will be denied in bankruptcy. In other words, the debt, both principal and interest, will be completely forgiven. These new penalties are in addition to those penalties already present in the Truth in Lending Act itself. 
Eighth, if a creditor willfully fails to credit payments to a bankruptcy plan, the creditor is liable for minimum damages of $5,000 and attorney's fees and costs, with the possibility of treble damages. 
And ninth, if a creditor's proof of claim is disallowed or reduced by 21 percent or more, the debtor gets attorney's fees and costs, and so forth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As you can see--I hope we can vote down this amendment--a lot of hard work has been put into this. 
Mr. President, I move to table and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to table the amendment and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the motion was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the only amendments in order to S. 1645, the child custody bill, other than the substitute, be the previously filed amendments which are at the desk and limited to the following: 
Senator Feinstein: to exempt adult family members of a minor from prosecution; 
Senator Boxer: to allow consent of a parent after a minor's abortion; 
Senator Kennedy: to require deference to State authorities; 
Senator Kennedy: to provide an exception for State laws that have been enjoined or held unconstitutional or that State enforcement authorities have declined to enforce; 
Senator Harkin: to provide an exception in the case of rape or incest; 
Senator Leahy: to provide a complete substitute, which makes the offense the use of force or threats of force to transport a minor; 
And a relevant amendment by Senator Abraham. 
I further ask unanimous consent that there be no other amendments in order, including second degrees; that following the disposition of the above-listed amendments, the bill be read a third time and the Senate proceed to vote on passage of the bill, with no intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, yesterday, my colleague Senator Grassley introduced Senate Joint Resolution 56, a bill cosponsored by Senator Kyl and me that expresses the sense of Congress in opposing efforts in various States to legalize marijuana and other Schedule I drugs for so-called medical use. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this bill, and I want everyone to understand that current drug laws should not be circumvented by allowing illegal harmful drugs to be introduced freely in our society. 
Last week, an identical measure sponsored by Congressman McCollum passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 310 to 93. 
Mr. President, proponents of legalization argue that marijuana and other drugs are needed by those living with pain and disease. They stress that these drugs improve the quality of life and should not be denied to those suffering. I understand their argument that we need to be compassionate to those that are suffering. My heart goes out to those people living with disease and to the families that care for them. Nevertheless, those arguments are flawed, and we cannot allow this legalization effort to contravene our Federal drug laws. 
In 1996, the Judiciary Committee held a hearing and examined the drug legalization initiatives in California and Arizona. We heard testimony from many of those involved in the war on drugs including General Barry R. McCaffrey, Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy, and Mr. Thomas A. Constantine, Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration. As a result of chairing that hearing, I learned that there is overwhelming evidence showing that marijuana is not a medicine and that its use by those suffering from cancer and other diseases is contradicted by the many side effects of the drug use. The testimony given at that hearing proved to me that the growing legalization movement in our States is harmful to the very people they are proposing to help. 
As many of you know, I have not been afraid to speak out and to urge that this administration do more to stem the rising tide against teenage drug abuse in our country. Illegal drug use by teenagers is one of the most serious domestic problems facing our Nation today: in my mind, it may be the most crucial issue for our Nation's ability to craft productive and law-abiding citizens. The worsening problem of drug abuse among our children and teens wreaks havoc on the lives and potential of thousands of young people each year. Legalization movements send a confusing message to the Nation's youth and threaten to increase the already alarming rise in drug use among teenagers. If we do not act decisively, we will pay a heavy price. 
For example, the results of the latest National Household Survey on Drug Abuse found that drug use among our children is climbing at an alarming rate. The number of children ages 12 to 17 using illicit drugs has more than doubled since 1992. Between 1996 and 1997 alone, drug use among 12- and 13-year-olds increased almost 75 percent. 
The abuse of marijuana, a drug many widely consider a gateway drug to more serious substance abuse, more than doubled among children between 1992 and 1997, increasing 75 percent between 1996 and 1997 alone. Not surprisingly, the rate of minors first trying heroin is at its highest level in 30 years, and the rate of minors trying cocaine and hallucinogens has more than doubled in the 90's. 
Although deeply troubling, this disturbing trend should come as no surprise to this administration. I warned this administration as early as 1993 that its failure to take the issue seriously and take strong action to fight drug abuse would prove disastrous to our children. Unfortunately, the evidence is now in and my predictions were all too prophetic to the great detriment of our children and future generations. 
Our country's laws prohibiting narcotic and dangerous drug use are not arbitrary. These laws are designed to protect our children and to protect mature adults from harmful chemicals. These laws should be fully enforced because they help prevent drug experimentation and drug addiction. 
Promoting the use of marijuana for so-called medical purposes is nothing more than a sham effort to legalize drugs through the back door. If we do not act decisively, we will pay a heavy price. 
In the words of General McCaffrey, our Drug Czar, `[additive drugs were criminalized because they are harmful; they are not harmful because they were criminalized.]' The more a product is available and legitimized, the greater will be its use. If drugs were legalized in the U.S., the cost to the individual and society would grow astronomically. 
The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is the key law by which legitimate drug products are evaluated and regulated in this country. A central precept of this law is that all drugs be proven safe and effective under their labeled indications. Proponents of medicinal uses of marijuana should not be exempt from this basic public health requirement. Anecdotal reports that marijuana may be beneficial should not cloud the fact that only controlled clinical trials can meet the exacting licensure requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If there is, in fact, a medical benefit from marijuana then it is imperative that the necessary scientific studies be conducted to assess and confirm such benefit. To date, proponents of medical uses of marijuana have been unwilling or unable to come through the front door of the FDA with evidence of its safety and efficacy. The pharmacological armamentarium contains many proven drugs to treat pain. It is poor public policy to acquiesce in back door mechanisms that permit unsafe and unproven products like marijuana to reach the bedsides of American patients. 
I believe this to be an important resolution and urge my colleagues to join me and Senators Grassley and Kyl in sending a clear message to those who advocate the legalization of marijuana and other Schedule I drugs for medical use in our States. I ask for their support when this joint resolution comes to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have very much enjoyed listening to my colleague once again on this very important issue, which seems to come back on an annual basis. The ink is barely dry on the announcement for last year's increase in the minimum wage and the Senator from Massachusetts is back asking for another serious, mandatory wage hike. 
The distinguished Senator from Massachusetts, and those who support this concept, believes that an increase in the minimum wage is the quick, painless way to help the disadvantaged in our society. They believe that a minimum wage hike is absolutely costless, and they believe that it has no adverse impact whatsoever. I can only wonder, then, why they have not offered an amendment raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour or $20 or $25 or $30, because if it has no impact and it really is going to benefit people, why not do that. In fact, if raising Senators' salaries $1.50 an hour over the last year is right, why not give everybody whatever the amount of money the Senators make--$100,000, $130,000, or whatever it is--to even things up and make everybody equal in our society? I am sure the Senator is not arguing that so I do not mean to raise that type of ridiculous argument. 
Frankly, if raising the minimum wage was all it took to raise people out of poverty--or to make life better for the working poor--I would vote for it. 
But, I believe the proponents of this amendment and of the underlying concept have greatly oversimplified the issue. And, I believe they know they have oversimplified it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 12 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Wyoming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President I yield 10 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Vermont. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of our time. 
Mr. DURBIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Iowa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I always enjoy listening to Members of Congress talk about how the minimum wage is going to benefit this society as we raise the minimum wage. Some of us have worked for the minimum wage in our lifetimes. We know what it is like to work for the minimum wage. We also know what it is like to lose your job because you raise the minimum wage too much, and small business people who do not make all that much money have to either reduce employment or get out of it. That is what happens. 
The Senator from Minnesota, the Senator from Illinois, and the Senator from Massachusetts I think are looking at the wrong numbers. They should be looking at employment--not unemployment. They should be comparing it to what might have occurred without the mandatory minimum wage increases. There is no question that we have a good economy right now. A rising tide lifts all boats, thank goodness. 
I notice that my colleagues are not discussing the plunging youth employment rates following the minimum wage increases in 1978 or 1989. The 1996 legislation that raised the minimum wage included a package of tax cuts. To some extent, of course, that helped mitigate the impact. You would think that by increasing the minimum wage we were going to have an increase in jobs. Really, I don't know any responsible economist who makes that argument. The fact remains, however, that unskilled workers are not helped, they are often hurt, by increases in the minimum wage, particularly in areas where the market wage for entry-level workers is lower. 
You are looking at one of the main sponsors of the child care development block grant. I wonder how many children are not being cared for because we keep increasing the minimum wage and freezing people out of child care. 
Yes, there are a lot of issues involved here. Wouldn't it be better to cut Americans taxes? We could give everyone more money in their paychecks without jeopardizing jobs and at the same time without hurting small businesses or without triggering price increases for consumers. 
I think instead of having minimum wages we ought to have minimum taxes. But where do we get the help from the other side on that? We don't get much of it. If you cut taxes, you actually give people an increase in wages, because they actually take more money home. 
Frankly, that is what we ought to be interested in doing to help these people along the way. It would help small business people, where most of the jobs are created. Better than 50 percent of all jobs are created by small business people, who would be the most severely impacted and who are the most severely impacted by increases in the minimum wage, other than those who never get a chance to enter into the workforce as a result of increases in the minimum wage. 
Let's be honest about it. This is not the simple little economic interest, as some on the other side have been saying. There is a lot involved here. We ought to be reducing taxes, not increasing minimum wages.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet on Tuesday, September 22, 1998, at 10:00 a.m. in open session, to consider the nominations of Richard J. Danzig to be Secretary of the Navy; Bernard D. Rostker to be Under Secretary of the Army; Stephen W. Preston to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy; Herbert L. Buchanan III to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and Acquisition; and Jeh C. Johnson to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized to meet on Tuesday, September 22, 1998, at 10:00 am on nominations of Amtrak Reform Board nominees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full Committee on Environment and Public Works be granted permission to conduct a hearing on S. 2470, a bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to make technical corrections to a map relating to the Coastal Barrier Resources System, Tuesday, September 22, 9:00 a.m., Hearing Room (SD-406). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs would like to request unanimous consent to hold a hearing on quality of care in the Department of Veterans Affairs health care system. 
The hearing will take place on Tuesday, September 22, 1998, at 10:00 a.m., in room 418 of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Antitrust, Business Rights, and Competition, of the Senate Judiciary Committee, be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 22, 1998, at 1 p.m. to hold a hearing in room 226, Senate Dirksen Office Building, on: `The BP/Amoco Merger: A Competitive Review.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we have all heard the shocking accounts of teenaged girls giving birth and then dumping their newborns into trash cans. One young woman from Delaware gave birth in a bathroom stall during her prom, and then proceeded to strangle and suffocate her child, leaving his body in the garbage. Cases in Maryland and Arkansas tell similar stories. 
Criminal charges were recently brought against a young woman in my home state of Utah for secretly giving birth in her parent's Salt Lake City home and then leaving the baby to die in a drawer. 
As I read these accounts, I find myself wondering about the blurry line which exists between late-term abortions and infanticide. William Raspberry argued in a July 13, 1998, column in the Washington Post: a `short distance [exists] between what [these teenagers] have been sentenced for doing and what doctors get paid to do.' 
Few people would dispute that such incidents constitute murder. Any cruelty or intentional harm inflicted on a defenseless child causes anger to rise in all of us, particularly when a variety of services exist to assist the parents with their responsibilities--or even, through foster care or adoption, to relieve them entirely. 
I have sympathy for any young woman who contemplates an abortion. Surely this is a difficult decision to make. The circumstances that drive a woman to it must certainly be complex and appear to her to be insoluble. 
But, the late-term partial birth abortion is not an ordinary abortion. It is not contemplated in the Roe v. Wade decision. 
That is why even pro-choice members of Congress were compelled to support this legislation. It is incomprehensible that any reasonable person could examine the evidence and continue to defend it. 
This procedure involves the partial delivery, in the late second or third trimester of pregnancy, of an intact fetus into the birth canal. The fetus is delivered from its feet through its shoulders, so that only its head remains in the uterus. Then, either scissors or another instrument is used to poke a hole in the base of the skull where a suction catheter is inserted to extract the baby's brain. 
If you are sickened and pained by that description as you listen to it--just as I am each time I read it--imagine what it must be like for the child who must experience it. This procedure is not done on a mass of tissue. It is performed on a living baby capable of feeling pain and, at the time this procedure is typically performed, capable of living outside of the womb with appropriate medical attention. 
So, then, I agree with William Raspberry and our colleague Senator Moynihan. The line between infanticide and partial birth abortion is very blurry indeed. 
Let me set out for the Senate one more time exactly what this bill does and does not do. This bill does not ban all abortions after a certain week of pregnancy. It does not dictate the circumstances under which late-term abortions would be permitted. H.R. 1122 bans this one, specific, abhorrent procedure. 
Opponents of this bill argue that partial-birth abortions are performed to preserve the health and life of the mother. This point of view, however, is based on false claims by advocacy groups and not on the facts. Such claims are a futile attempt at making this procedure appear less barbaric and thus more palatable to the American people. 
I think Americans deserve to hear the facts. They need to know the truth about a procedure which our esteemed colleague from New York, Senator Moynihan, has accurately described as `close to infanticide.' 
The former U.S. Surgeon General, C. Everett Koop, described his opposition to the partial-birth abortion procedure in an interview with the American Medical News, which was published in its August 19, 1996 issue. Dr. Koop stated: 
. . . in no way can I twist my mind to see that the late-term abortion as described--you know, partial birth, and then destruction of the unborn child before the head is born--is a medical necessity for the mother. It certainly can't be a necessity for the baby. So I am opposed to . . . partial-birth abortion. 
Dr. Daniel H. Johnson, President of the American Medical Association, asserted the AMA's position on the issue in the May 26, 1997, edition of the New York Times. Dr. Johnson stated: 
[T]he partial delivery of a living fetus for the purpose of killing it outside the womb is ethically offensive to most Americans and physicians. Our panel could not find any identified circumstances in which the procedure was the only safe and effective abortion method. 
Often the health of the woman is not even under consideration. Dr. Martin Haskell, one of a hand full of doctors who perform this procedure, admitted in testimony given under oath in Federal district court in Ohio that he performs the procedure on second trimester patients for `some medical' and `some not so medical' reasons. 
The record in support of this legislation is long. In November 1995, I presided over a 6 1/2 -hour Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the issue. At the March 1997 Senate-House joint hearing, we heard from 10 witnesses, including representatives of the major organizations on both sides of this issue and a medical doctor who specializes in maternal-fetal medicine. As testimony from the hearings demonstrated, this procedure is not performed primarily to save the life of the mother or to protect her from serious health consequences. Instead, the evidence shows that this procedure is often performed in the late second and early trimesters for purely elective reasons. 
I acknowledge that there may have been rare cases where this awful procedure was performed and where there was a possibility of serious, adverse health consequences for the mother. 
However, even in those cases, a number of other procedures could have been performed. In fact, other procedures would have been performed had the mothers gone to any doctor other than one of the handful of doctors who perform these awful partial-birth abortions. 
I understand that many people on both sides of the abortion issue have very strongly held beliefs. I respect those whose views differ from my own. And I condemn, as I know every other Member of this body does, the use of violence or any other illegal method to express any point of view on this issue. 
It is critical to remember, however, that this bill is not about the right of a woman to choose an abortion. That is a debate for another day. The only bill we are voting on today is H.R. 1122, a bill that seeks to make a particularly gruesome, and I believe inhumane, abortion procedure illegal. 
I would like to express my appreciation to Senator Santorum for his leadership on this issue and join him in urging our colleagues to support this bill and override the President's veto.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have been to Puerto Rico. I have to say it is a beautiful land. 
These are our fellow citizens. They have to make this determination. Of course, we should give them that right. 
I have heard both arguments within Puerto Rico. Some feel it is a great idea to have statehood. Others don't think it is quite so great. There are disadvantages to becoming a State. There is no question about it. But there are great advantages as well. 
All we are doing here this evening is acknowledging as Members of the U.S. Senate the right of our fellow U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico to express democratically their views regarding their future political status through a referendum or other public forum, and to communicate those views to the President of the United States and to the Congress. 
That is the least we could do. These are good people. These are proud people. These are people who have contributed to this country--and who will contribute to this country--even though their status has been different from other citizens. 
I personally endorse and support this resolution here this evening. I hope and I know that it will pass. It will pass unanimously, which I think is the high tribute to the people of Puerto Rico and to those on both sides of this issue down there. 
I congratulate all of those who have worked so hard to get this done, especially Senator Murkowski, Senator Torricelli, the others who have been mentioned, Senator D'Amato and Senator Domenici. 
This is a wonderful evening, a wonderful day, and something that is long overdue. I congratulate my colleagues for having accomplished this today. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. MURKOWSKI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to offer this amendment cosponsored by Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa on our side and Senator Bob Graham of Florida and Senator Dick Durbin on the Democrat side, all of whom I would like to thank for their hard work on this important matter. 
The Hatch-Graham-Grassley-Durbin pension amendment, among other things, is designed to do the following: Provide a uniform exemption for all types of tax-favored qualified pension plan assets in bankruptcy including Roth IRAs whose status under current bankruptcy law is uncertain, protect retirement assets that are in the process of being rolled over into a new qualified plan, and protect loans from pension funds in bankruptcy. 
Under present law, retirement plans which have received a determination letter from the IRS pursuant to section 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which have not been revoked by a court or by the IRS have, in many instances, been held by the bankruptcy courts not to be qualified plans. This holding allows the trustee for the bankruptcy estate to seize the interest of the bankrupt participant in the plan. 
Similarly, if a retirement plan that is not eligible to receive a favorable determination letter but has in all other respects operated under the ERISA provisions and has not had its status revoked by a court or by the IRS, such a plan has been found by the bankruptcy court not to be a qualified plan. 
This amendment addresses this problem by providing, 1, that if a plan has received a favorable determination letter that is in effect, the plan is presumed to be exempt from the bankruptcy estate; and, 2, if a plan is not eligible for a determination letter, the plan may be exempt from the bankruptcy estate if there has been no prior determination by a court or the IRS to the contrary and the plan is in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
Further, Mr. President, under present law, if there is a direct transfer of an individual's retirement funds by the trustee of a plan exempt from the bankruptcy estate to the trustee of another retirement plan that is exempt from the bankruptcy estate, there is a question as to whether these retirement funds are exempt while in transit. It is possible that a bankruptcy court may hold that such funds are in a `pay status' and thus subject to attachment by the bankruptcy trustee. If there is a distribution of a plan's assets to a distributee and the latter within 60 days transfers them to another qualified plan, ERISA rules do not treat that as a distribution. 
There is some question whether these funds in transit are protected from the bankruptcy estate. If a participant is in bankruptcy when either of these types of transit occur, the bankruptcy trustee may be authorized by the bankruptcy court to seize the funds. The result would be to severely reduce or wipe out the participant's retirement funds. This is contrary to sound public policy. 
The proposed amendment provides that a direct transfer of retirement funds from one qualified retirement plan to another shall be exempt from the bankruptcy estate. In addition, it provides that eligible `rollover' funds from a qualified retirement plan shall be exempt from the estate if rolled over to another qualified plan within the allowed 60 days of the initial distribution. 
Finally, on the issue of qualified plan loans, the amendment provides that qualified plan loans outstanding when the participant is in bankruptcy are not dischargeable, and that payroll deductions used to repay plan loans are not stayed by the court. 
The retirement savings of hundreds of thousands of elderly Americans are at risk in bankruptcy proceedings. In 1997, an estimated 280,000 Americans age 50 and older filed bankruptcy. Almost one in five bankruptcy cases involve one or both petitioners who are 50 or older. This amendment has the full support of the AARP, which has stated that: 
The accumulation and preservation of retirement funds represents an important national goal. 
I could not agree more. With this national goal in mind, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am glad to stand with the distinguished Majority Leader and the distinguished chairman of the Commerce Committee to explain how we plan to proceed with respect to reform of the copyright compulsory license governing the retransmission of broadcast television signals by satellite carriers. Let me thank them for their interest in these important issues and their cooperation in this process. The Majority Leader has been particularly helpful in facilitating a process allowing for a joint reform package from our two committees. 
Mr. President, the Judiciary Committee has been working on these issues for more than 2 years. We have always recognized that some of the reforms we need to undertake in relation to the compulsory copyright license would require reforms in the communications law which has traditionally been dealt with in the Commerce Committee. I am glad that we have been able to work out a process whereby we can move a bill to the floor that will be the joint work product, and thus using the joint expertise, of both the Judiciary and Commerce Committees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am proud to introduce S. 2491 the Hatch-Leahy-DeWine `Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998.' I want to especially thank Senators Leahy and DeWine for their cooperation in drafting this exemplary piece of legislation. S. 2491 strengthens the ability of law enforcement and the courts to respond to high-tech sexual predators of children. Pedophiles who roam the Internet, purveyors of child pornography, and serial child molesters are specifically targeted. 
The Internet is a wonderful creation. By allowing for instant communication around the globe, it has made the world a smaller place, a place in which people can express their thoughts and ideas without limitation. It has released the creative energies of a new generation of entrepreneurs and it is an unparalleled source of information. 
While we should encourage people to take full advantage of the opportunities the Internet has to offer, we must also be vigilant in seeking to ensure that the Internet is not perverted into a hunting ground for pedophiles and other sexual predators, and a drive-through library and post office for purveyors of child pornography. Our children must be protected from those who would choose to sexually abuse and exploit them. And those who take the path of predation should know that the consequences of their actions will be severe and unforgiving. 
How does this bill provide additional protection for our children? By prohibiting the libidinous dissemination on the Internet of information related to minors and the sending of obscene material to minors, we make it more difficult for sexual predators to gather information on, and lower the sexual inhibitions of, potential targets. And by requiring electronic communication service providers to report the commission of child pornography offenses to authorities, we mandate accountability and responsibility on the Internet. 
Additionally, law enforcement is given effective tools to pursue sexual predators. The Attorney General is provided with authority to issue administrative subpoenas in child pornography cases. Proceeds derived from these offenses, and the facilities and instrumentalities used to perpetuate these offenses, will be subject to forfeiture. And prosecutors will now have the power to seek pretrial detention of sexual predators prior to trial. 
Federal law enforcement will be given increased statutory authority to assist the States in kidnaping and serial murder investigations, which often involve children. In that vein, S. 2491 calls for the creation of the Morgan P. Hardiman Child Abduction and Serial Murder Investigative Resources Center. That center will gather information, expertise and resources that our nation's law enforcement agencies can draw upon to help combat these heinous crimes. 
Sentences for child abuse and exploitation offenses will be made tougher. In addition to increasing the maximum penalties available for many crimes against children and mandating tough sentences for repeat offenders, the bill will also recommend that the Sentencing Commission reevaluate the guidelines applicable to these offenses, and increase them where appropriate to address the egregiousness of these crimes. And S. 2491 calls for life imprisonment in appropriate cases where certain crimes result in the death of children. 
Protection of our children is not a partisan issue. We have drawn upon the collective wisdom of Senators from both sides of the aisle to draft a bill which includes strong, effective legislation protecting children. I call upon my colleagues to support this bill and speed its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I know this amendment is well intentioned, but, look, I was a building tradesman as a young 16-year-old. I made a pretty good living as a building tradesman. I could have wound up as a building tradesman, which I was very proud to be. In fact, I have had some colleagues say I should have stuck with it. In fact, one of them, when they found out I was a janitor at one time putting myself through college, said I should have stuck with it. Maybe so. 
But I would hate like heck to have some artificial rule or some regulatory rule by some regulatory agency of Government say that I, as a hard-working carpenter, would not be able to get a credit card and get credit that I might need for my family to make our lives a little easier because of artificial rulings like what happens as a result of this well-intentioned amendment. 
This is a slap in the face of every 18-, 19-, 20-year-old--and 17-year-old, 16-year-old even--people who can work; 16-, 17-, 18-, 19-year-olds who work hard, who are supporting their families. They may not be college graduates, they may not look like they quite have the future of some who have gone to college and done the things that they have done--might look like--but they are not going to be able to get credit cards under this without going through some big rigmarole decided by Government. 
This amendment would unfairly discriminate against young adults. I think it has to be opposed. I hope our colleagues will think about this. The amendment would require parental consent for extensions of open-ended credit to young adults under the age of 21--think of that--a lot of young adults who are supporting their families and doing what is right but have not been to college, or even those who have been to college or who are working well in college, as I had to do, unless they could demonstrate `an independent means of repaying' the obligation. 
While it is not entirely clear what would constitute an `independent means of repaying' a debt, one thing is clear: This amendment would have the bizarre effect of requiring an emancipated but temporarily unemployed 20-year-old mother to obtain her parent's consent before receiving a credit card, or an unemployed 20-year-old carpenter who, because of seasonal layoffs, might not have a job for a couple of weeks, or maybe 3 weeks or maybe a month or two. I understand that life; I understand how difficult it is. 
The same would be true with respect to a 20-year-old plumber or a construction worker, like I have mentioned, who is between jobs, in between jobs, and with respect to a 20-year-old recently discharged from the U.S. military and looking for civilian employment--somebody who is honorable and decent, would pay back any debt no matter what happened but could not get a credit card because of these artificial restraints. 
Moreover, the amendment makes no provision whatsoever for a young adult whose parents or guardians may be deceased. It is also not clear what responsibility, if any, the amendment would impose on a lender to verify that the signature of a parent or a guardian was authentic. 
In short, discriminating against individuals between the ages of 18 and 21 when it comes to obtaining credit simply cannot be justified just because we know it is pretty easy to get a credit card out there and it is abused from time to time. But this amendment furthers the abuse only in the opposite direction. Also, it is important to note that individuals under 18 cannot enter into binding contracts and, therefore, any credit inadvertently extended to them is unenforceable. 
I encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this amendment, notwithstanding some of the arguments on the other side of the aisle. It is important to note that not all 18-, 19- or 20-year-old kids are college students or unemployed or irresponsible or bums, if you want to say it. Some have families, some serve in the military and are asked to defend our country. It puts their ability to gain credit in doubt. Or should we just call it the way it is? In the hands of Federal regulators. 
You know, there is a limit to everything. Yes, there are some abuses here. Yes, some of these credit card companies get some of these young people hooked on credit cards just thinking they can live with that credit card. But in the interest of solving that problem, do you abuse all the other honest, hard-working, decent young people between the ages of 18 and 21? Do you discriminate against them so that they cannot get a credit card that might make their lives maybe a little bit better or a little more livable or a little more sustainable? 
My attitude is that this amendment ought to be defeated because it is a one-sided amendment that, in my opinion, has not been well thought through. That is not a knock at my colleague because I know he is sincere. I know he has good intentions here. I know there are some values that he is trying to defend. But I think the overwhelming weight of maturity is on the side of young people in that age group who deserve to have a credit card, who would pay back their credit card, who are responsible citizens, and who do not need the Federal Government to tell them what they can or cannot do in this area. The fact that we have a few credit card companies that abuse the system does not mean we should pass this type of an amendment. 
I am happy to yield 5 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I find it somewhat ironic and, frankly, indefensible that some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who are now arguing for parental consent here in order to obtain a credit card, would also argue against requiring parental consent for children who want to get an abortion. I have spent 22 years listening to that. 
Now, Mr. President, they are arguing for parental consent for young adults between the ages of 18 and 21. Look, if they are willing to amend the amendment--every State in this Union, to my knowledge, refuses to give credit or allow credit to be granted to young people less than 18 years of age. So I think Senator Dorgan's son already fits within that category. We are talking about 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds who work, who are in the service, are capable of doing this, who should not have to get parental consent, should not have to justify it. I am talking against discrimination against young people of that age. 
My friends on the other side argue for parental consent for young adults between 18 and 21. These are not even minor children. How can anybody argue, on the one hand, that if you are between 18 and 21 and you want a credit card, you have to get your parents' consent, and on the other hand you should not have to get parental consent if a minor wants to get an abortion? I don't know about you, Mr. President, but to me that sounds a little bit inconsistent--maybe a smidgen. 
Every State in the Union, to my knowledge, refuses to give the right to grant credit to young people below 18 years of age. At least that is my understanding. So that is not even an issue. Despite all of the enjoyment we had from the remarks of the Senator from North Dakota, that isn't an issue. Are we going to discriminate against hard-working young people who are 18, 19 and 20 years of age, who should have a right to credit, just because we have some excesses in our society that really are not justified? 
Mr. President, one of the arguments that I hear again and again is that the bankruptcy crisis in this country is the fault of credit card companies because they offer credit too freely to low- and moderate-income Americans. Opponent of reform have, during the hearing process, shown us piles of credit card solicitations to make their point. They want us to believe that the nation's bankruptcy crisis is the fault of easy access to credit, and not of the individual who abuses the bankruptcy system with all of its present loopholes. 
First, I would like to say a few words about taking personal responsibility for our actions. In a free world, each of us is confronted with a variety of offers on a daily basis, some of which we should accept, and some of which we should not. It is the responsibility of the individual to decide whether or not to take on debt and it is the responsibility of the individual to live with the consequences of that decision. Before we can begin to make meaningful reform to the bankruptcy laws, we simple must stop the finger pointing and accept personal responsibility for our spending and borrowing practices. That said, if we look at the objective facts, it is apparent that credit card debt is only a small fraction--about 16 percent--of the debt of a typical bankruptcy filer. 
The reason I have this chart up is because the yellow part of that, the higher part of it, shows the total consumer debtload. You will notice that between 1980 and 1997 the consumer debtload has remained about the same. But look at the red part, increase in consumer bankruptcy filings, which this bill would help to resolve. The increase in consumer bankruptcy filings has continued to go up off the charts. So the debtload doesn't appear to be the major problem. What is the major problem is the abuse of the bankruptcy system, which this bill would correct. 
Surprisingly, as Americans continue to use consumer credit at about the same level as they have historically over the last few years, bankruptcy filings have more than quadrupled. In other words, as this chart demonstrates, the debt load that individuals carry has not changed very much. What has changed is the attitude of Americans toward bankruptcy. People turning to bankruptcy today are not in significantly more difficult debt that those in the past. But rather than taking responsibility and working their way out of debt, too many people are choosing bankruptcy as a first resort. 
As I have said before, excessive bankruptcy filings hurt all of us. When someone who could pay their debts instead opts for bankruptcy, the rest of us effectively pay their unpaid bills for them. Bigger businesses and creditors raise prices and interest rates to offset their losses, and small businesses may actually be forced into bankruptcy themselves. 
But his issue is not just about the impact of bankruptcy on the rest of us. It is about personal integrity and personal responsibility. When you borrow money from someone else, you make an implicit promise to do whatever you can to pay that money back. Our present bankruptcy laws undermine this basic principle. This bill will help solve that. They allow people who can repay their debts to avoid doing so because they find their debts `inconvenient' or because repaying their debts would require them to change their lifestyle. 
Ironically, many of the people who say that we do not need to reform the bankruptcy code because easy access to credit is to blame, are the very same people who argue that poor and moderate income individuals desperately need, and should not be denied, credit. These are the same groups who, fifteen years ago, complained that the credit industry granted credit only to the elite and wealthy, and deprived lower-income Americans of the important opportunity to use credit. And, these are the same 
people who vociferously argued just a few weeks ago in favor of the Community Reinvestment Act or CRA, which requires banks to extend loans and credit to low and moderate income Americans who live in low income areas. 
Rather than reform the bankruptcy code, some have suggested imposing burdensome credit qualification standards on the credit card companies. Let me be clear: amending this bill to require onerous credit qualification standards will result in an immediate reduction in the availability of credit to lower-income individuals. And, imposing burdensome requirements on credit card companies that do nothing to help consumers--and that in fact hurt consumers by adding to the cost of being a credit card holder--is nothing more than an obvious attempt to derail bankruptcy reform. On the other hand, I remain open to measures that will help people become fully aware of the implications of debt before they incur it. 
Mr. President, the explosion in bankruptcy filings has less to do with causes and more to do with motivations. The stigma of bankruptcy is all but gone. Bankruptcy has become a routine financial planning device used to unload inconvenient debts, rather than a last resort for people who truly need it. The rest of us end up footing the bill for abuses in the bankruptcy system in many forms, including higher prices and higher interest rates. What this legislation will accomplish is straightforward: If a person is able to repay some of what they owe, they will be required to do so. We must restore personal accountability to the bankruptcy system. If we do not, every family in America, many of whom struggle to make ends meet but manage to live within their means, will continue to shoulder the financial burden of those who abuse the system. 
Mr. President, I do not mean to suggest that the bankruptcy system has failed us altogether. It provides a way for individuals who have experienced a a financially devastating event to get back on their feet. The problem we face is that current law does not simply allow bankruptcy filers to get back on their feet * * * it allows abusers of the system to get ahead of Americans who make good on their debts. S. 1301 is a common-sense bill that will provide a much needed adjustment to the bankruptcy system. 
Again, I will end with what I started with. If my colleagues on the other side want to exclude those below 18 years of age, as the States basically do, so that credit card companies cannot solicit them, I would be more than happy to do that. I would be more than happy to grant that right now, right here on the floor. But if they are going to discriminate against 18-, 19-, and 20-year-old people who are hard-working, decent kids, some of them working at trades in society as I did, some of them working in the military, some of them who may be temporarily out of work but are good, honest people, then I have to say we have to fight against this amendment. 
Last but not least, I will say that I find it ironic that they would require parental consent to get credit card credit while at the same time not requiring parental consent with regard to getting an abortion. 
I reserve the remainder of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would be happy to yield our remaining time to the distinguished Senator from North Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I offer the following statement on behalf of myself and my colleagues Kay Bailey Hutchison, John McCain, Pete V. Domenici, Spencer Abraham, Christopher S. Bond, and Charles E. Grassely. Our purpose is twofold: to join our colleagues in recognizing the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, an to submit a resolution designating April 30, 1999, as `Dia de los Ninos: Celebrating Young Americans.' 
Since 1968, we have formally recognized and celebrated the tremendous contributions of Hispanic Americans to the history, strength, security, and development of our great nation. This year, we once again embark on this month-long celebration. It is right to honor more than five centuries of contributions by Hispanics to the development not only of our great nation, but of the Western Hemisphere and the world. It is also imperative that we recognize that the health and vitality of the Hispanic American community is pivotal to the strength and future of this nation. 
Our own experience has shown us that Hispanic Americans are a strong and proud people, loyal, patriotic, courageous, and dedicated to their families, their country, and their communities. Hispanics have a strong work ethic and tremendous faith in the American dream. They have made great contributions to the advancement of all people in every area, to music, the arts, science, engineering, mathematics, and government. 
I am thrilled to see so many wonderful Hispanic role models help light the way for Hispanic youth to attain the American Dream. 
Jaime Escalante, a high school mathematics teacher, has been helping an unprecedented number of Hispanic students prepare for and pass advanced placement tests in calculus. Amalia V. Betanzos, president of an alternative high school with tremendous success rates, has helped us all see what faith and encouragement can do for the soul. And Abraham Chavez, who established the El Paso Symphony, shares his musical talent with children on both sides of the U.S. border. Even with limited funds, he finds various ways to put instruments into the hands and music into the lives of young children. 
Such great recording artists as Celia Cruz, Tito Puente, Los Lobos, the late Selena, Freddy Fender, and Gloria Estefan have brought joyous Latin rhythms into our homes and our hearts. Great authors, like Luis Valdez, Victor Villasenor, Nicholasa Mohr, and Luis Rodriguez and great screen artists like Andy Garcia, Jimmy Smits, Edward James Olmos, Rita Moreno, Martin Sheen, and the late Raul Julia have entertained while they inspired us. 
The patriotism and courage of great Americans like Alfred Rascon, who immigrated to the United States from Mexico, should also be recognized. At age 20, a lawful permanent resident, he volunteered to serve in Vietnam. As a paratrooper combat medic, he twice used his own body to shield wounded comrades from enemy guns. Severely wounded, he refused to be evacuated until all the wounded were safe. He kept working until he collapsed, so hurt that a priest at the scene gave him last rites. 
Dr. Antonia Novello, former U.S. Surgeon General, Raul Izaguirre, President and CEO of National Council of La Raza, Carmen Zapata, director and co-founder of the Bilingual Foundation of the Arts, and Astronauts Ellen Oschoa and Franklin Chang Diaz have helped lead the way for our children as they enter the 21st century. 
Of course, Sammy Sosa, Rebecca Lobo, Nancy Lopez, ChiChi Rodriguez, Pedro Morales, Gigi Fernandez, and Trent Dimas are but seven of the many great athletes who have shared with us the pride and success born of great sacrifice and a hunger for perfection. We are proud of their accomplishments. When they win, all America cheers and shares in their victory. 
Most importantly, let us not forget the many, many other Hispanic Americans, whose daily contributions often go unrecognized, but whose legacy continues to demonstrate the viability of the American dream. 
But for all their contributions to the strength of our nation, many Hispanics have not yet fully shared in the dream. The national drop-out rate for Hispanics exceeds 30 percent (for non-Hispanics the rate is 11 percent, and for blacks, the rate is 12 percent), the highest for any ethnic group, and their educational attainment levels are among the lowest for any ethnic group. Hispanic children are most likely to be among America's poor, even though Hispanic males have the highest labor participation rates. Hispanics are most likely to lack health insurance and access to regular health care, yet suffer disproportionately from certain diseases. We must do better. 
As the youngest and fastest growing minority community in the nation, Hispanics must share equally in the benefits and opportunities of this great nation, so that our country grows stronger and can better compete in global markets. Indeed, by 2050, according to the latest census projections, one in four Americans will be of Hispanic descent. One thing is clear, the health and vitality of this nation depends in large part on the degree to which Hispanic Americans are prepared to meet the global market demands of the next century. 
For this reason, in 1987, Senator John Chafee and Orrin G. Hatch established the U.S. Senate Republican Conference Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, which now numbers 27 senators. The task force provides a unique forum for Hispanic leaders to raise awareness and support on the national level for key issues facing the Hispanic community in the areas of education, economic development, employment and health. The task force is aided by a bipartisan, volunteer advisory committee, for whose service we are very grateful. We acknowledge their tremendous contributions, commitment, and dedication to this effort. We thank each of the members publicly for they are truly great Americans. 
It was with their help and guidance this Congress that we were able to make small advances in addressing the needs of the Hispanic community, including providing access to health insurance to large numbers of children in poverty, making changes to the Higher Education Reauthorization Act, and supporting increased appropriations to strengthen institutions that provide higher education to low income and disadvantaged students, and reforming job training programs to better serve the latino community. We were also able to establish a federal charter for the American GI Forum, a national Hispanic Veterans organization. Indeed, we owe no small debt of gratitude to the men and women who have sacrificed and continue to sacrifice daily to preserve our freedoms and democratic government. Hispanic Americans are very proud of their record of military service--the highest number of medals of honor earned per capital for any ethnic community. 
Additionally, we submitted an `English Plus' Resolution, encouraging citizens to master not only the English language, but other foreign languages. Enhancing our linguistic abilities will make for a more skilled and competitive labor force, and improve our communications. We hope to be able to pass the resolution before the end of the Congress. 
It was our Advisory Committee that recommended we join the National Latino Children's Institute in calling upon the nation to designate April 30, 1999, as `Dia de los NinAE6os: Celebrating Young Americans'--a recommendation with which we wholeheartedly concurred. 
In contributing to the celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, we think it is most fitting to introduce a resolution calling on the citizens of our great nation to join with other nations of the world, and especially those of the western hemisphere in setting a day aside to honor our children. Much in the same way that we celebrate Mother's Day and Father's Day, we urge the American people to set aside a day to uplift children, to encourage them to dream, and help them to acquire the skills necessary to make those dreams come true. It is a custom throughout Latin America to celebrate `Dia de los NinAE6os' on the 30th of April each year. Let us share in this tradition. 
Indeed, if we take time to listen, to encourage children to read, to stay in school, to dream, to plan and work hard to achieve their dreams, then America's future is guaranteed to be brighter. Latinos have made great strides, and they continue to progress. They have joined the ranks of public officials, managers, CEOs and presidents of corporations, teachers, doctors, lawyers, and congressmen. But there is much yet to be done. Let us take pride in the contributions of Hispanics to the history of this nation, let us recognize their gifts to America--their patriotism, devotion to family, love of God, and faith in the American dream--and let us invest in the dreams of their children. Let us extend Hispanic Heritage Month to include a day to honor and celebrate the gifts of all of the nation's children, a day in which we devote ourselves to uplifting and encouraging them to pursue their dreams. We invite our colleagues to join us as co-sponsors of this worthy resolution designating April 30, 1999, `Dia de los NinAE6os: Celebrating Young Americans.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise this morning to express strong opposition to the Bumpers amendment, and I urge my colleagues to oppose it as well. This amendment is a step backwards, Mr. President. It is a step back toward more centralized government; it is a step back toward more heavy handed regulations; and it is a step back toward making environmental policy with emotion and politics instead of science and common sense. 
Mr. President, this argument really comes down to whether or not we want environmental regulations to be determined on the state level by those who have the greatest stake in a healthy environment and a strong economy, or do we want to keep all the power inside the Washington beltway and in the hands of federal politicians and bureaucrats. 
This amendment would strike section 117 of the fiscal year 1999 Interior appropriations. What is so disturbing about this section that it must be struck, Mr. President? Section 117 is simply an attempt to replace the emotionally and politically charged controversy surrounding the revised 3809 regulations with good science. Section 117 would require that the National Academy of Sciences--hardly an organization in the pocket of the mining industry--perform a study of the adequacy of federal and state regulations governing hardrock mining on our public lands before the Secretary of Interior moves forward with the new regulations. I find it baffling, Mr. President, that a member of Congress would be opposed to introducing an impartial and nonpartisan element to this heated debate, such as a study by the National Academy of Sciences. 
Mr. President, this is not merely a philosophical debate. This debate is about jobs in rural America. We have learned by unhappy experience that regulations spewed forth from Washington, D.C., with no regard for those who are most affected by the regulations, often lead to a loss of competitiveness and jobs in rural areas. 
I wish all of my colleagues could visit the many rural areas of my state of Utah. They would find that opportunity has been whittled away from rural Americans who live among public lands. And why have these citizens lost their ability to grow and prosper, Mr. President? Has it been because of a lack of effort or creativity? Of course not--rural areas in Utah are struggling because government bureaucrats have systematically closed off opportunities to graze on public lands, to harvest timber on public lands, and to mine on public lands. I challenge anyone to tell me that this trend has not led to a major loss of rural jobs, Mr. President. 
Mr. President, the rural people of my state know that the source of their problems has been an onslaught of centralized government regulation. I would like to read a letter from a young constituent of mine, T.J. Seely. He sums up, better than I could, what the crux of this debate is really about. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that this letter be entered into the Record along with my remarks. 
Mr. President, T.J. asks me in his letter, `What are you doing about jobs in rural Utah?' Well, Mr. President, an important part of my answer to T.J. will be that I voted against this amendment today, and that I urged my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, time is very limited this morning, so I will be brief. 
We are voting shortly on cloture on a Motion to Proceed. In other words, Senators will be deciding whether or not we can simply consider this important measure. 
We all know how contentious the issue of abortion can get around here, and across the country. But this matter is not really even about abortion. This bill is simply about protecting the health and safety of minor children and the rights that their own states have concluded their parents should have. Specifically, it simply seeks to enforce state laws requiring parental involvement in their minor daughter's abortion so that someone other than those parents cannot readily avoid those state laws by taking a young girl across state lines for an abortion, certainly not without the notification to their parents. 
But whether my colleagues agree or disagree with this bill, or whether, like the Clinton administration, that want to modify or limit it, there is simply no reason to vote no on just proceeding to a discussion. 
The concern has been expressed that there be an opportunity to offer relevant amendments. Mr. President, no one has suggested otherwise. Let's have at it. The only action that would preclude amendments is a no vote this morning. 
We are prepared to debate and vote on amendments. That opportunity was available at committee and it can be worked out here. In fact, the amendments offered or filed at committee would likely be germane post-cloture even if this were a cloture vote on the bill itself, rather than a motion to proceed. 
So let's not look for excuses here. I urge my colleagues to vote yes and allow us to consider this important legislation. American families--parents and their children--deserve no less. 
Having said that, I want to personally pay my respects to the distinguished Senator from Michigan, Senator Abraham, for the leadership he has provided on this. Without him, we wouldn't be this far. I have to say he has been a great leader on the Judiciary Committee. I personally appreciate the efforts he has made on this bill thus far. I will support him every way I possibly can. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today in tribute to a great Utah man of science, Dr. Roger R. Williams, whose life came to a tragic end last Wednesday in the horrific crash of Swissair Flight 111. 
Tomorrow, Dr. Williams' remarkable life will be celebrated at a memorial service in Salt Lake City. 
In the wake of this solemn occasion, I ask that my colleagues pause for a few moments in remembrance of those husbands and wives, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters who perished in this terrible crash. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this morning there will be 30 minutes of debate prior to a rollcall vote on a motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to the child custody protection legislation. If cloture is not invoked and if an agreement has not been reached with respect to the bankruptcy bill, there will be an additional 30 minutes of debate prior to a cloture vote on the Grassley substitute to the bankruptcy bill. If cloture is not invoked on that measure, it is expected that the Senate will resume consideration of the Interior appropriations bill. 
Members are encouraged to come to the floor to offer and debate amendments to the Interior bill in an effort to make progress on this important legislation. Therefore, Members should expect rollcall votes throughout today's session, with the first vote occurring at 10 a.m. As a final reminder, Members have until 10 a.m. to file second-degree amendments to the bankruptcy bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980910</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, my colleague from Kentucky has, as usual, made a persuasive case why the McCain amendment is, as it has been for several years, flawed beyond salvage. I commend him for his leadership on this issue. 
Like most of my colleagues, I do not oppose reform of our campaign finance laws if it is done in a constitutionally sound manner. But, I do not think passing campaign finance reform--this McCain-Feingold amendment, for example--just to say we've enacted reform gives us any sort of bragging rights. There is no virtue in passing a bad bill. 
I would like to spend just a few minutes addressing what, in my mind, is a much greater issue: the investigation of the fundraising abuses during the 1996 election cycle. At a time when the supporters of McCain-Feingold are urging adoption of an unprecedented increase in federal regulation of campaigns and public discourse, which would be enforced by this administration, that same administration has made almost no progress in finding out whether the laws already on the books were trampled by the Clinton/Gore campaign, the White House, and the Democratic National Committee. Unfortunately, the Attorney General of the United States, Janet Reno, has continued to refuse to do what the law compels her: appoint an independent counsel to conduct the investigation of the fundraising activities surrounding the 1996 reelection campaign. And her own investigation, mired in obvious conflict of interest, has been a dismal failure. 
Last week I met for almost three hours with Attorney General Reno and top officials and staff of the Justice Department, including Deputy Attorney General Holder and Former Task Force head Charles LaBella, along with House Judiciary Chairman Hyde, House Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Burton, and Ranking Member Waxman, regarding the campaign finance investigation and the application of the independent counsel statute to this widespread and dangerous scandal. 
I had requested this meeting in late July after the existence of the so-called LaBella memorandum had come to light. In that memo, Mr. LaBella, the handpicked lead investigator with the most extensive knowledge of the facts of this scandal, concluded that the facts and law dictated that a broad independent counsel be appointed to investigate campaign finance abuses by the 1996 Clinton/Gore reelection campaign, the Clinton administration, and the Democratic National Committee. This memo came several months after a similar written conclusion made by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Louis Freeh. 
Under federal law, the Attorney General must apply to the special division of the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit for appointment of an independent counsel whenever, after completion of a preliminary investigation, she finds finds information that a high-ranking official included in a specific category of individuals within the executive branch may have violated federal law. 
More than one and a half years ago, all ten Republicans on the Judiciary Committee felt the time had come to request such an appointment. We sent a letter to the Attorney General, as we are authorized to do by the independent counsel statute, requesting that she make an application for an independent counsel and demonstrating the evidence which requires such an application concerning the campaign finance scandal. 
After reviewing redacted versions of the memos prepared by Mr. LaBella and Director Freeh, it is clear that both gentleman have advanced strong, convincing arguments in support of a broad-based independent counsel. Importantly, when I asked the Attorney General and her top advisors why those recommendations have, thus far, been rejected, the answers I received were vague, insufficient, or unconvincing. 
I have urged Attorney General Reno to appoint a broad-based independent counsel for campaign finance for well over a year. I have written the Attorney General numerous times to demonstrate how she is misapplying and misunderstanding the independent counsel law. The law allows her to appoint a independent counsel if she has information that a crime may have been committed, but she has read the law as requiring that the evidence shows without a doubt that a crime has been committed. By setting up this legal standard, she basically has required that a smoking gun walk in the doors of Justice Department before she appoints an independent counsel. 
As has been widely reported, numerous individual investigations are being handled by the task force. Yet, the task force has reportedly never conducted an investigation or inquiry into the entire campaign finance matter in order to determine if there exists specific and credible information warranting the triggering of the independent counsel statute. Indeed, as has been reported, the task force has been utilizing a higher threshold of evidence when evaluating allegations that may implicate the Independent Counsel Act or White House personnel. 
I have admired the courage of FBI Director Freeh and lead investigator LaBella in discussing, within applicable rules, their views on these important issues. They made it clear that the independent counsel is required under the law, that there are no legal arguments for the Attorney General to hide behind. Director Freeh stated that covered White House persons are at the heart of the investigation. Investigator LaBella said there was a core group of individuals at the White House and the Clinton campaign involved in illegal fundraising. 
Now some may attempt to defend the Attorney General by noting that she has gone through the process of legal reviews of many aspects of the campaign finance scandal. These actions are good, although clearly incomplete, steps. Each month that goes by sees the Attorney General lurch towards a real investigation of the campaign finance scandal. We now have action on several peripheral fronts, including the independent counsel investigating Bruce Babbitt, the reviews of potential false statements by the Vice President concerning his fundraising calls and by Harold Ickes regarding his involvement with unions, and now the review of the President's control of DNC advertising. 
My primary focus, however, has been and remains the infusion of foreign money and influence on our campaigns. Until we have a broad-based independent counsel investigation, we will only be looking at the loose threads of the scandal and not the most serious alleged violations. 
In addition, I hope that the Attorney General will not take the entire three months to make decisions on these latest matters. The campaign finance violations we are discussing happened two and three years ago and every day that passes means leads are drying up, evidence is lost, and statutes of limitations are running. 
While Lead Investigator LaBella and FBI Director Freeh recommended that the Attorney General appoint an independent counsel to look into the coordination issue, it is clear that they both think an independent counsel should be appointed to handle the whole scandal, not just these peripheral issues. Any independent counsel must be given authority to delve into the most important questions of the scandal. As the New York Times concluded, a limited appointment would be a `scam to avoid getting at the more serious questions of whether the Clinton campaign bartered Presidential audiences or policy decisions for contributions. A narrowly focussed inquiry could miss the towering problem of how so much illegal foreign money, possibly including Chinese government contributions, got into Democratic accounts.' 
I must also take issue with the Attorney General's assertions that the current investigation is not a failure because it has secured a limited number of indictments. Let's remember that the ongoing campaign finance investigation has only indicted the most conspicuous people who made illegal donations to the DNC or the Clinton/Gore campaign. It has made no headway in finding out who in the administration or DNC knew about or solicited these illegal donations. Until it does so, the investigation is a failure. 
In closing, let me quote the New York Times, which, I believe, captured the situation perfectly: `Ms. Reno keeps celebrating her stubbornness as if it were some sort of national asset or a constitutional principle that had legal standing. It is neither. It is a quirk of mind or personality that has blinded her to the clear meaning of the statute requiring attorneys general to recuse themselves when they are sunk to the axle in conflict of interest.' 
The inability of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute the violations of existing laws is the real scandal here. That is what we should be talking about, rather than legislation which would represent an unconstitutional, unwise, and partisan trampling of our electoral system and First Amendment rights. 
One final note, Mr. President. I believe that the American people want accountability in the electoral market place--not more restrictions on what they can and cannot do to participate in it. Accountability is a desirable thing in campaigning. I have always favored disclosure, and I believe we can take steps to enhance the information available to the press and to the public. But, accountability is not the same as regulating, which is what we are debating here today. 
This measure imposes new restrictions without necessarily increasing accountability, and it does so at a time when there has been little effort to effectively enforce the campaign laws we already have on the books. I join the Senator from Kentucky in urging defeat of this amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Patricia Kramer, a congressional fellow in Senator Grassley's office, be given floor privileges during the consideration of debate of S. 1301, the Consumer Bankruptcy Reform Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to again express my disappointment in the refusal of Members on the other side of the aisle to allow the Senate to proceed to S. 1301, the Consumer Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1998. 
This is a very important piece of legislation, and it will be an enormous disservice to the American people if we fail to act on it this year. We all know the time is short and the schedule is very crowded in these last few weeks of the session. I just hope that, when the time comes, my colleagues on the other side will vote for cloture on the motion to proceed tomorrow and provide the Senate a fair chance to debate this much-needed legislation. In fact, I hope that they will waive their filibuster on the motion to proceed and will invoke cloture on the bill itself, if that is needed. 
In recent years, personal bankruptcy filings have reached epidemic proportions in the United States. We simply cannot afford to continue down this path because excessive bankruptcy filings harm every one of us in America. Consumer bankruptcy ends up costing Americans almost $40 billion a year, or roughly $400 per household in this country. The negative repercussions associated with consumer bankruptcy go far beyond the debts owed to credit card companies and big businesses. 
The reality is, contrary to what the critics of reform would lead us to believe, this issue profoundly impacts the average American. Bankruptcies end up harming small business owners, senior citizens who rely on rental income to supplement their retirements, and of course members of credit unions. Even the person who files for bankruptcy can end up being hurt. Some filers, victims of so-called `bankruptcy mills,' are neither apprised of their options nor informed of the consequences of a bankruptcy filing. Ultimately, they suffer the consequences of having filed, when a better alternative may have been available to them. 
This legislation is guided by two main principles: No. 1, restoring personal responsibility in the bankruptcy system; and, No. 2, ensuring adequate and effective protection for consumers. 
There are individuals who can repay some of what they owe but, instead, choose to use--rather, `abuse'--the current bankruptcy system or laws to avoid doing so. The bankruptcy laws need to be reformed to prevent this from occurring. S. 1301 does this, while delicately safeguarding the bankruptcy system so that it can provide a `fresh start' to those who truly need it. 
I note that according to statistics from the American Bankruptcy Institute, most States in this Union have seen a troubling rise in bankruptcy filings. This is at a time when our economy has been doing extremely well. While we must preserve bankruptcy for those who need it, as legislators we must recognize that there are some unscrupulous individuals who are able to repay some of what they owe but still use the current bankruptcy laws to avoid doing so. In fact, to go one step further, there are some people who can pay all of what they owe but opt out through the bankruptcy system because of current loopholes in the law itself. 
This balanced legislation deserves to be considered. It is time for the Senate to act on this legislation. We should not derail the fair and balanced reforms proposed by this bill due to petty, partisan politics. I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will vote to allow the Senate to proceed to S. 1301 tomorrow. Furthermore, I hope once we proceed to the bankruptcy legislation, they will not prevent its passage by attempts to offer extraneous, politically motivated amendments, all of which we are used to at this time of the year but which I hope will not be the case on this particular bill, as important as it is. There will be no greater failure to discharge our duty as Senators if this legislation is held hostage for petty political purposes or the petty political politics of the few. 
It is time to debate this bill, debate any relevant amendments, and it is time to vote on it. In the interests of all Americans and the future of our economy, we need to end these partisan efforts to delay consideration of this bankruptcy reform legislation. It is time to fulfill our commitment to the American people and end the abuse of the bankruptcy system and its attendant $400 tax on every American family. 
Finally, I want to pay particular tribute to the distinguished Senator from Iowa who has handled this matter through the Subcommittee on the Courts and Administrative Oversight. He has brought it through the full committee and on to the floor of the Senate, with the help of some of the rest of us, but he has done a particularly good job on this bill. 
Yes, there are things that perhaps need to be corrected and might need to be changed. Both Senator Grassley and I have been open to changes and good ideas to improve this bill. And when and if we finally get to debate this bill, we will remain open to new ideas. But the fact of the matter is, it is very difficult to get a bill of this magnitude through without listening to everybody and paying attention to everybody's ideas. I think the distinguished Senator from Iowa has done an excellent job in doing exactly that. I am very proud of the work he has done. It is just typical of his service here in the Senate that he not only grabs the bull by the horns, but he gets it done and he does the things that really have to be done. He is a very valued member of the Judiciary Committee, and is certainly valued by me, personally. I just want him to know how much I appreciate the work he has done on this legislation. 
There are others, as well, including the distinguished Senator from Illinois, on other side of the floor. I hope he will counsel the people on his side of the floor to quit playing games with this important bill. He has worked very hard on this bill as well and deserves a lot of credit for how far we have come on this. I hope that with the leadership of these two fine Senators, Members on both sides of the aisle will realize how important this legislation truly is. If we can get this up through cloture, I have no doubt this will pass overwhelmingly on the floor because it is that important. It is that well done. It has the kind of backing that really it needs from the people at large in the country, on all sides of the spectrum. It is the type of legislation where literally all of us can go home and say we did the right thing. 
There is no question that we have to go to conference should we pass this bill. Hopefully, through that process, we can perfect both the House bill and this bill even more than we have right now. But the fact is, these leaders on the committee have done a very, very good job in getting it to this point, and I compliment them for it. 
I yield the floor.  
Mr. GRASSLEY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, in many respects, I have been pulling for the President to pull through this problem and one who had hoped that the speech he gave never would have had to have been given, and who still is very concerned about our country and how this matter is handled. 
I want to express my gratitude to the distinguished Senator from Connecticut and my dear friends from Nebraska and New York, as well, for the moral compass that they have brought to the U.S. Senate floor this day, and really for the fine work they have done through the years in some of these very difficult matters. 
When the distinguished Senator from Connecticut stands and speaks on these particular issues, he does so with authority because he has spoken out on so many moral issues in the past, and I think with good effect. I think it is important for all of us to reserve judgment on these matters until we have the report of Judge Starr. At that time, we can look at it and make determinations as to what should be done. There is no question that the President has been embarrassed by some of the things that have happened. There is also no question that these are difficult times for him, his wife, his daughter, and others in the administration--frankly, for all of us. Let's hope that we can approach this matter with kindness and deliberation and do the things that really need to be done in this area and, again, as the majority leader said, do what is in the best interest of our country. That may give us a number of alternatives that may be very just and worthwhile and beneficial to the country. Let's hope we choose the right path. 
In any event, I express my gratitude to these members of 
the other party because I know how difficult it is for them to come to the floor and speak on this issue. I respect them for having done so. It is a difficult set of issues, and certainly I feel very deeply about them as well. I express my gratitude. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am extremely disappointed in my good friend and colleague from Massachusetts, who has chosen to object to even proceeding to the bankruptcy reform legislation. The fact is that this Grassley-Durbin legislation has broad bipartisan support. This particular bill passed the Judiciary Committee with a 16-2 vote. 
This piece of consensus legislation reflects the tireless efforts of both Democrat and Republican Senators on the Judiciary Committee. 
Mr. President, at subcommittee markup, no less than eight amendments were offered, all of which were adopted. Furthermore, at the full committee markup, 13 amendments were offered and eight of them were adopted. So there has been a real bipartisan effort to resolve the problems. 
A number of changes requested by my colleagues on the minority side were included in a comprehensive substitute amendment that was adopted at the markup. 
All during this process, I have been open to other changes. In fact, I worked with Senator Dodd to address his concerns that the legislation may have an adverse impact on the ability of ex-spouses and children to collect support payments. Along with Senators Grassley and Kyl, I introduced a comprehensive amendment that creates new legal protections for ex-spouses and children who are owed child support and all money payments. 
This amendment not only ensures that S. 1301 will have no adverse effect on child support and alimony payments, but also creates significant new legal protections that strengthen the ability of ex-spouses and children to collect the payments that they are owed. So we have made every effort to accommodate everybody here. 
Further, I want to respond to the suggestion that this legislation does not help real working families. Mr. President, this bill does exactly that. It is an important bill that will help millions of American families. In fact, abuses of the current bankruptcy system impose a $400 tax per family. 
Let me be clear. This is not $400 per family that declares bankruptcy; this is a tax on every American family. This legislation is designed to remedy that. 
Again, I am extremely disappointed that we have not been allowed to proceed with this important bill, and I hope we can invoke cloture on this.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that it be in order for the majority leader, after consultation with the Democratic leader, to proceed to Calendar No. 210, S. 10, the Violent and Repeat Juvenile Offender Act, and that it be considered under the following limitations: 
The only amendments in order be a substitute amendment offered by Senators Hatch and Sessions, and the following listed amendments: 
An amendment by Senator Campbell on law enforcement concealed carry; 
Senator Lugar on jail drug treatment; 
Senator Hutchison, SOS on prosecutions; 
Senator Smith of Oregon, juveniles with weapons at school; 
Senator Hatch, relevant amendment; 
And, five relevant amendments offered by the minority leader or designee; 
There be a managers' package of amendments to be cleared by both the majority and minority manager; 
And, that each amendment be subject to relevant second degrees. 
I finally ask unanimous consent following the disposition of any or all amendments the bill be read a third time, the Judiciary Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 3, and the Senate proceed to its consideration; that all after the enacting clause be stricken, and the text of S. 10, as amended, be inserted in lieu thereof; the bill be read a third time, and the Senate proceed to a vote on passage of the bill. I further ask that following the vote, the Senate insist on its amendment, request a conference with the House, and the Chair be authorized to appoint conferees on the part of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I understand my colleague is acting on behalf of the minority leader, as I am for the majority leader and the Senate Judiciary Committee. But I am disappointed that 
Members on the other side of the aisle do not wish to take up juvenile crime legislation under an agreement that provides the Senate chance of getting this done. We all know that time is short and the schedule crowded in the last weeks of a session, and in my view, the only way we can get this important bill done is to work in good faith to limit amendments. 
I would like to remind my colleagues that this issue, and this legislation are not new. It has been over a year since the Judiciary Committee completed action on S. 10, the most comprehensive reform and reauthorization of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act in that law's 25 year history. Since the Judiciary Committee completed action on S. 10, we have heard many suggestions on the key provisions of this bill. Many suggestions we received were helpful, and are incorporated in the substitute amendment. And I should note for my colleagues that the minority has had the text of this substitute for well over a month. The substitute is a good faith effort to respond to the legitimate concerns of all members, and makes changes to improve and streamline the block grant, clarify the juvenile records provisions, and improve the anti-gang provisions while ensuring the protection of the rights of law abiding citizens. 
All of us have been shocked over the past several months, as our nation has witnessed a series of atrocious crimes committed by juveniles. These incidents bring home to all of us the reality of juvenile crime. And the reality is that we can no longer sit silently by as children kill children, as teenagers commit truly heinous offenses, as our juvenile drug abuse rate continues to climb. FBI data confirms the national problem of rampant juvenile violent crime. In 1996, juveniles accounted for nearly one fifth--19 percent--of all criminal arrests in the United States. Persons under 18 committed 15 percent of all murders, 17 percent of all rapes, and 32.1 percent of all robberies. 
Our juvenile crime problem has taken a new and sinister direction. I can imagine few acts more heinous than some of the crimes recently committed by juveniles around the country. We seem now to be in a new era, in which juveniles are committing sophisticated adult crimes. This disturbing trend demonstrates the need to reform the juvenile justice system that is failing the victims of juvenile crime, failing too many of our young people, and ultimately, failing to protect the public. 
The Senate has before it comprehensive youth violence legislation. S. 10, the Hatch-Sessions Violent and Repeat Juvenile Offender Act, was reported out of the Judiciary Committee last year on bipartisan vote, two to one vote. This legislation will fundamentally reform and redirect the role played by the federal government in addressing juvenile crime in our Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Without losing my right to the floor, I ask unanimous consent that I be permitted to yield to Senator Dodd to make his final remarks, and then I will make my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the last several weeks leading up to the end of a Congress are always a pressure packed time and a challenging time for all Members of this body. This fall, of course, is no exception. Given the legislative challenges we face, I would prefer that the Judiciary Committee's and the Senate's efforts stay focused exclusively on completing remaining legislative and appropriations items. Unfortunately, the Attorney General of the United States, Janet Reno, has diverted our attention from those issues we would all prefer to be working on because of her continued refusal to do what the law compels her: request the appointment of an independent counsel to conduct the investigation of the fundraising activities surrounding the 1996 reelection campaign. I thank my ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Leahy, for being willing to meet with me and Attorney General Reno and others for almost 3 hours this morning and into the afternoon. 
We met along with top officials and staff of the Justice Department, including Deputy Attorney General Holder, Criminal Division Director James Robinson, Former Task Force head Charles LaBella, FBI Task Force lead agent James DeSarno, Public Integrity head Lee Radek, along with House Judiciary Chairman Hyde, House Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Burton, and Ranking Member Waxman, having invited the Ranking Member John Conyers as well who could not attend the meeting, regarding the campaign finance investigation and the application of the independent counsel statute to this widespread and dangerous scandal. 
I had requested this meeting in late July after the existence of the so-called LaBella memorandum had come to light. In that memo, Mr. LaBella, her handpicked lead investigator with the most extensive knowledge of the facts of this scandal, concluded that the facts and law dictated that a broad independent counsel be appointed to investigate campaign finance abuses by the 1996 Clinton/Gore reelection campaign, the Clinton administration, and the Democratic National Committee. This memo came several months after a similar written conclusion made by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Louis Freeh. 
Under federal law, the Attorney General must apply to the special division of the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit for appointment of an independent counsel whenever, after completion of a preliminary investigation, she finds that a conflict of interest exists or when she finds specific and credible information that a high-ranking official included in a specific category of individuals within the executive branch may have violated federal law. The appointment of an independent counsel is a serious matter and one which the Attorney General should only initiate when necessary. 
Yet, more than one and a half years ago, all ten Republicans on the Judiciary Committee felt the time had come to request such an appointment. We sent a letter to the Attorney General, as we are authorized to do by the independent counsel statute, requesting that she make an application for an independent counsel and demonstrating the evidence which requires such an application concerning the campaign finance scandal. 
I must confess, as I did then, to a degree of frustration with the Independent Counsel Act. Did I appreciate having to send our letter? Certainly not. Do I believe that changes need to be made to the Independent Counsel Act? Yes. Yet, the Independent Counsel Act is the law of the land and, notwithstanding its relative flaws, we on the Judiciary Committee and even a stubborn Attorney General have an obligation to abide by it. That issue was the primary focus of today's meeting. 
In addition, the Department and my House colleagues asked me to broaden the focus of today's meeting to include a review of the LaBella memorandum. I agreed to this additional focus in order to work toward a reasonable resolution of the ongoing contempt dispute between Attorney General Reno and the House Committee on Governmental Reform and Oversight concerning the Attorney General's refusal to produce this document. 
I had hoped that today's meeting might allay my concerns that the Attorney General is flouting both the independent counsel law and the Congress in its legitimate oversight function. Unfortunately, only some of my concerns were addressed satisfactorily. 
On the contempt issue, I believe that Chairman Burton generally concluded that today's review of the partially-redacted memoranda is a solid first step towards a reasonable resolution of the dispute. It is clear that we will need to have followup discussions with the Department as to some of the redactions, but it appears that the contempt crisis possibly may be averted. I congratulate Chairman Burton, Ranking Member Waxman, Chairman Hyde, and the Attorney General for striving towards an accommodation, and I am pleased that our meeting had this positive outcome. 
We are not yet there, and it is a decision that only the House can make. But I have to say I think we made a very important first step, hopefully the final step, and towards a positive outcome here. 
I should point out, however, that approximately 60-70% of the LaBella memo was redacted on the alleged grounds that it discussed material protected under Rule 6(e), and nobody should conclude that the Attorney General has made a complete disclosure to the Congress. 
However, on the larger and more significant issue of the appointment of an independent counsel, I cannot announce similar progress. After reviewing redacted versions of the memos prepared by Mr. LaBella and Director Freeh, it is clear that both gentlemen have advanced strong, convincing arguments in support of a broad-based independent counsel. Importantly, when I asked the Attorney General and her top advisors why those recommendations have, thus far, been rejected, the answers I received were vague, insufficient, or unconvincing. 
I have urged Attorney General Reno to appoint a broad-based independent counsel for campaign finance for well over a year. In fact, these events have gone on for well over 2 years. I have written the Attorney General numerous times to demonstrate how she is misapplying and misunderstanding the independent counsel law. The law allows her to appoint an independent counsel if she has information that a crime may--that is the pivotal word, `may'--have been committed, but she has read the law as requiring that the evidence shows without a doubt that a crime has been committed. This standard is way too high. By setting up these legal standards, she basically has required that a smoking gun walk in the doors of Justice Department before she will do anything. 
I believe she is reexamining that issue. She has promised us to reexamine it. She has promised to look into this one final time, and I hope with all my heart she is doing so in good faith, and I will give her the benefit of the doubt that she is. 
But, as has been widely reported, numerous individual investigations are being handled by the task force. We found out again today that is true. The LaBella memorandum talked in terms of literally dozens of independent investigations in which he was involved. Yet, the task force has reportedly never conducted an investigation or inquiry into the entire campaign finance matter in order to determine if there exists specific and credible information warranting the triggering of the independent counsel statute. Indeed, as has been reported, the task force has been utilizing a higher threshold of evidence when evaluating allegations that may implicate the Independent Counsel Act or White House personnel. 
It has been argued that this different legal standard being applied to the campaign finance investigation has had the result of keeping the investigation of White House personnel out of the reach of the Independent Counsel Act. Today's briefing failed to respond to or put to rest any of these longstanding charges. 
I have admired the courage of FBI Director Freeh and lead investigator LaBella in discussing, within applicable rules, their views on these important issues. They made it clear that the independent counsel is required under the law, that there are no legal arguments for the Attorney General to hide behind. Director Freeh stated that covered White House persons are at the heart of the investigation. Investigator LaBella said there was a core group of individuals at the White House and the Clinton campaign involved in illegal fundraising. That should be the end of the argument. 
I was also struck by Mr. LaBella's comments that the public only knows one percent of what's out there. That scares me because I thought we have heard a lot about abuses by the DNC and how foreign money corrupted our system. His remark shows just how much we need an independent counsel. 
Now some may attempt to defend the Attorney General by noting that she has initiated two 90-day reviews of potential perjury by the Vice-President and former White House deputy chief of staff Harold Ickes. The political machine surrounding the Attorney General may have convinced her to take the two limited actions she has initiated to relieve the political heat. These two 90-day reviews completely avoid the substance of the real allegations. This is not to minimize the significance of perjury allegations, but her actions thus far miss the larger issues. 
Any independent counsel must be given authority to delve into the most important questions surrounding or involving the scandal. As the New York Times concluded, a limited appointment would be a `scam to avoid getting at the more serious questions of whether the Clinton campaign bartered Presidential audiences or policy decisions for contributions. A narrowly focussed inquiry could miss the towering problem of how so much illegal foreign money, possibly including Chinese government contributions, got into Democratic accounts.' This is the New York Times. 
We read today how FBI Director Freeh and Lead Investigator LaBella have recommended an appointment with a wide scope, and the Attorney General should not and cannot ignore their wise counsel any longer. As a unnamed senior government source told the Wall Street Journal: `We showed [the Attorney General] significant threads of evidence that went right into the White House and to the upper levels of the DNC.' Yet the Attorney General, thus far, has refused to act. 
Moreover, the time for 30-day or 90-day reviews has passed: we need action. The campaign finance violations we are discussing happened 2 and 3 years ago. While the independent counsel statute allows for 30 and 90 day review periods, it does not require it. When the FBI Director and the lead investigator lay out the evidence showing that a broad independent counsel is necessary, the review periods are not warranted. 
I must also take issue with the Attorney General's assertions that the current investigation is not a failure because it has secured a limited number of indictments. Let's remember that the ongoing campaign finance investigation has only indicted the most conspicuous people who made illegal donations to the DNC or the Clinton/Gore campaign. It has made no headway in finding out who in the administration or DNC knew about or solicited these illegal donations. Until it does so, the investigation is a failure, and in the eyes of many a sham. 
Rather than make pronouncements concerning what the Congress should or must do in response to the Attorney General's continued misinterpretation of the law, I feel it is prudent to meet with those of my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee who joined with me in requesting that she apply for the appointment of an independent counsel more than a year ago.  
I also want to pay particular tribute and respect to my ranking minority member, Senator Leahy, who sat through all this today, has cooperated through all this, has tried to get to the bottom of this with us, and who may have a different view from me but nevertheless has worked in a bipartisan way to try to resolve these matters, a way that I intend to continue to work. And I don't think anybody can accuse me of not bending over backwards for the Attorney General through all these months and years. 
In closing, let me quote the New York Times, which, I believe, captured the situation perfectly: `Ms. Reno keeps celebrating her stubbornness as if it were some sort of national asset or a constitutional principle that had legal standing. It is neither. It is a quirk of mind or personality that has blinded her to the clear meaning of the statute requiring attorneys general to recuse themselves when they are sunk to the axle in conflict of interest.' That is strong language. I wish it had not had to be issued by the New York Times. But to many it seems to be accurate. 
Strong will is a character trait I admire. Certainly I admire the Attorney General in many ways. But adherence to one's personal opinion at the expense of the law cannot be ignored, particularly when it is the Attorney General. Her refusal to appoint an independent counsel in accordance with the law should be of great concern to both Republicans and Democrats and to the American people for whom she is obligated and sworn to enforce the law. Notwithstanding the recent announcements, this matter has now passed the point of reasonableness, and I am no longer willing to give the Attorney General the benefit of the doubt: it is now beyond dispute that she is not living up to her duty to enforce the law. 
I am hopeful that within a short period of time she will enforce the law, or I will have more to say on this matter. I have bent over backwards to try to be accommodating to her and accommodating to the Justice Department, but as we all know, it is now becoming an embarrassment to the Justice Department. There are a few down there who are backing her decisions and an awful lot of people including the Nation's top investigator, Louis Freeh, his chief investigator, James V. Desarno of the FBI, and the chief prosecutor and investigator, Charles LaBella, who have no axe to grind but all of whom have said it is time to get this behind us, to get an independent counsel, to stop any claims of conflict of interest, and to implement the law that is so clear on its face so that we can get to the bottom of these problems and do so in a way that does not involve the President's appointee investigating the very people who appointed her including the President. 
I hope nobody has any legal problems in this matter, but it has to be resolved in the eyes of the American people and certainly has to be resolved in the eyes of the Judiciary Committee or at least those who have requested that she request the appointment of an independent counsel, and it is time to get this behind us. 
Again, I thank all of those who were in the meeting this morning--specifically, my colleague Senator Leahy, my dear colleagues over in the House, Chairman Hyde who chairs the Judiciary Committee and has tremendous burdens on his shoulders right now, and also Congressmen Burton and Waxman. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, if I can take just another minute? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, you know, by some counts--some can count as many as nine requests for preliminary reviews in this matter. We are now almost 2 to 3 years down the line. The evidence is growing cold. The witnesses are absenting the country. We have evidence that cannot be found. And we had investigators telling us today that while one part of the Justice Department is going this way, another part of the Department is going another way, they weren't meeting, and that they were not able to put these threads of evidence together because of the type of restrictions and limitations that were placed on them. 
It is true that they said that they could investigate anybody, but thus far it seems as though the White House and the DNC leadership, the people who would have known who committed crimes were off limits or at least have not been fully examined. That is one reason why Mr. LaBella, Mr. Freeh, and Mr. Desarno--top people in this Government--have suggested that we should have an independent counsel. 
I think the Attorney General has to make a decision here one way or the other. If she makes a decision to just have a limited, narrowly appointed independent counsel or counsels under these circumstances, then I have to say that is going to be a catastrophic event. 
I am hopeful that she will do the right thing within a very limited period of time. She does not have to use the 90 days that she has requested. She has had years now to make determinations in these matters, and she ought to make them, and she ought to make them one way or the other--to her praise or condemnation. I personally believe that she will, within a short period of time. I pray with all my heart that she will, because I like her personally, and I don't feel good about standing up and disagreeing with her. I would like to have a good relationship with her and would naturally like her to be a great Attorney General. But she has to face these problems and she has to face that statute and she can no longer ignore it. Even if she does not agree with the mandatory part of that statute, which appears to be the case, although she is willing to relook at it, she has to agree that there is a whopping conflict of interest here, both an actual conflict and an appearance of a conflict, which necessitates the requests for the appointment of a broad-based independent counsel in these matters to get this finally behind us. And I hope that we can do that. 
I apologize to my colleague from Kentucky for interrupting this debate, but this is important to do. I apologize to him at this time and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980901</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to support the conference report to H.R. 629, the Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact, a Compact among the states of Texas, Maine, and Vermont. The Texas Compact which was introduced in the House by Representative Barton and has 23 cosponsors, and the conference report to the Compact, both passed the House overwhelmingly with bi-partisan support. I am confident that the conference report to the Texas Compact will now pass this body with the same commanding support it garnered in the House. 
In July of this year, I was a Conferee to the Texas Compact along with Senators Thurmond and Leahy. I thank Senators Thurmond and Leahy, Congressman Bliley who chaired the conference, and all other conferees for working together to accomplish the goal of passing the Texas Compact through conference without any unnecessary or distracting amendments that would have forced the Compact States to go through an arduous re-ratification process. After thorough consultation with the governors of the Compact States, the conferees unanimously agreed to recede from two amendments that were offered by Senator Wellstone. The Wellstone amendments would have spawned costly litigation and imposed strict limitation not imposed on other existing compacts. The conferees ultimately concluded that the amendments were not in the best interests of the Texas Compact. 
The passage of this Compact will place the States of Texas, Maine, and Vermont in compliance with the 1980 Low-level Radioactive Waste Policy Act which Congress passed in an effort to establish a uniform Federal policy on nuclear waste disposal. While the Federal Government retained responsibility over high-level waste disposal, this act placed the onus on the States to dispose properly of low-level radioactive waste generated within their borders. 
To promote and encourage the fulfillment of this obligation by all States, Congress authorized the States to enter into compacts with other States to share waste disposal facilities. It is pursuant to this obligation and mandate that the Texas-Maine-Vermont Compact was negotiated and approved by the legislatures of Texas and Vermont and through a public referendum in the State of Maine. The compact was subsequently signed by the governors of all three states. 
Currently, nine interstate compacts involving 41 States are operating through Congressional consent. I have received a letter signed by the Governors of Texas, Maine, and Vermont urging Congress to pass this compact as passed by the States. This compact would bring these states into compliance with federal law. The hard work for drafting a compact that all three states would ratify and that would meet with congressional approval has been completed for some time. The States have carefully crafted a compact that will serve their low-level waste disposal needs in a responsible and lawful manner. 
The States have done their part and have been patiently waiting for congressional consent before moving forward with plans to construct the waste disposal facility. It is now time for this body to do its part in assuring that this compact will be passed swiftly without further delay. I therefore support this important piece of legislation, and encourage my colleague to do the same.  
Ms. SNOWE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is correct. The bill simply makes it clear that major league baseball players have the same rights under the antitrust laws as do other professional athletes. The bill does not change current law in any other context or with respect to any other person or entity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is correct. S. 53 is intended to have no effect other than to clarify the status of major league players under the antitrust laws. With regard to all other context or other persons or entities, the law will be the same after passage of the Act as it is today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is with pleasure that I rise today in support of S. 512, the `Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998.' This measure has bipartisan support, and I am pleased to be an original co-sponsor along with Senators Leahy, Feinstein, DeWine, D'Amato, Grassley, Abraham, Faircloth, Harkin, Warner, Murkowski and Robb. 
Identity information theft is a crime that destroys the lives of thousands of innocent people each year. It occurs when an imposter, who has falsified or stolen personal information from another individual, uses the information to make financial transactions or conduct personal business in the name of another. This heinous crime often leaves victims with mountains of debt, ruins their credit history, and makes it difficult for the individuals to obtain employment. In short, it virtually takes over the lives of innocent citizens who find themselves trying to untangle an endless trail of obligations they did not make or actions they did not commit. 
Many of you know individuals who have been victims of this crime. These are people whose lives have been destroyed because a con-artist gained access to and used their personal data, such as their address, date of birth, mother's maiden name, or social security number. This is information that you and I are asked to verify every day in our society. Once that information is obtained, these con-artists use it to open bank and credit card accounts and to obtain bank and mortgage loans. These fake business and personal commitments and obligations can ruin a lifetime of hard work. 
Currently, the applicable federal statute, Title 18 United States Code Section 1028, only criminalizes the possession, transfer, or production of identity documents. In other words, you have to catch the culprit with the actual documents in order to bring a prosecution for fraud. Obviously, such criminals are not always going to keep these documents once they have acquired the information they need. Many times criminals simply misappropriate the information itself to facilitate their criminal activity. 
As there is no specific statute criminalizing the theft of the information, when and if these criminals are prosecuted, law enforcement must pursue more indirect charges such as check fraud, credit card fraud, mail fraud, wire fraud, or money laundering. Unfortunately, these statutes do little to compensate the victim or address the horror suffered by the individual whose life has been invaded. Often these general criminal statutes treat only affected banks, credit bureaus, and other financial institutions as the victim, leaving the primary victim, the innocent person, without recourse to reclaim his or her life and identity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise in support of the San Rafael Swell National Heritage and Conservation Act. As a cosponsor of this measure, I applaud the efforts of my friend and colleague, Senator Bennett, for bringing this matter before the United States Senate. This is a refreshing approach to managing public lands in the West. 
This legislation reflects the ability of our citizens to make wise decisions about how land in their area should be used and protected. It is an article of our democracy that we recognize the prerogatives and preferences of citizens who are most affected by public policy. This measure gives citizens who live next to these lands a say as to what is right and appropriate for the land's management. I believe this initiative, which began locally at the grassroots level, is a cynosure for future land management decisions in the West. 
Much more than simply protecting rocks and soil, this legislation safeguards wildlife and their habitat, cultural sites and artifacts, and Indian and Western heritage. This is not your standard one-size-fits-all land management plan. It provides for the conservation of this unique area, opting to encourage visitors not development. 
Mr. President, the San Rafael Swell is an area of immense scenic beauty and cultural heritage. It was once the home to Native Americans who adorned the area with petroglyphs on the rock outcrops and canyon walls. What were once their dwellings are now significant archaeological sites scattered throughout the Swell. After the Indian tribes came explorers, trappers, and outlaws. In the 1870s, ranchers and cowboys came to the area and began grazing the land, managing it for its continued sustainability. Today, there are still citizens with roots in this long western tradition. These citizens understand the land; they understand conservation and preservation principles; and they want to see the land they love and depend on preserved for present and future generations. 
First of all, Mr. President, this legislation sets up a National Heritage Area, the first of its kind west of the Mississippi. In the new National Heritage Area, tourists will walk where Indians walked and where other outstanding historical figures such as Kit Carson, Chief Walker, Jedediah Smith, John Wesley Powell, Butch Cassidy, and John C. Fremont spent time. The area already boasts a number of fine museums, including the John Wesley Powell Museum, the Museum of the San Rafael, the College of Eastern Utah Prehistoric Museum, the Helper Mining Museum, and the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry. Consolidated under the new National Heritage Area, these important sites and museums will add a Western flavor to the already diverse network of existing National Heritage Areas in our nation. 
Next, this legislation sets up one of our nation's most significant and dynamic conservation areas. The San Rafael Conservation Area will encompass the entire San Rafael Swell and protect approximately 1 million acres of scenic splendor. The area will be managed according to the same standards set by Congress for all other conservation areas. In fact, this legislation withdraws the entire San Rafael Swell from future oil drilling, logging, mining, and tar sands development. Moreover, the area will protect important paleontological resources including an area on the northern edge of the Swell know as the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry which was set aside in 1966 as a National Natural Landmark, preserving one of the largest sources of fossils in the New World. 
Of particular interest, Mr. President, is the designation of the Desert Bighorn Sheep National Management Area. This provision ensures that our precious herd of bighorn sheep will continue to be monitored by state wildlife managers. The bill also provides strict protections to other resources in the area. Last but not least, Mr. President, this legislation formally designates certain areas within the Swell as wilderness. 
This proposal preserves a portion of the West as it currently exists and allows for traditional uses, where appropriate, such as hunting, trapping, and fishing. It will foster the development and management of tourism in keeping with the overall goals of preservation. This management concept is one of multiple use and allows for the continuation of working landscapes including agriculture, irrigation, and ranching, which are a part of our Western tradition. 
Mr. President, this initiative is compatible with local and regional needs, but it invites the world to come and enjoy the natural and historical treasures of the San Rafael Swell. I urge my colleagues to support this important citizens' initiative to preserve the San Rafael Swell.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to the noteworthy efforts of the Utah Assistive Technology Program, which has helped empower individuals with disabilities, allowing them to live more rewarding, productive, and independent lives. 
An estimated 216,100 Utahns of all ages--approximately 10 percent of our state's population--live with a disabling condition. Assistive technology provides a means whereby these individuals can live and work in virtually all areas of society. Stated plainly, assistive technology not only improves the quality of life for individuals with disabilities but also enables the rest of us to have the benefit of their contributions. 
The term `assistive technology' encompasses all devices that improve the functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities. Such devices can be as simple as a wheelchair or as high-tech as an electronic Liberator, a technological apparatus that makes communication possible for disabled individuals who are not able to speak. Organizations such as the Utah Assistive Technology Program provide services that assist disabled individuals in the selection and acquisition of these products. 
With the help of assistive technology, children have received a more meaningful and challenging education; adults have undertaken rewarding careers; and senior citizens have continued to live independently in their own homes. 
The Tech Act, as it is known, passed by Congress in 1988, has proven invaluable to the realization of these goals. Under this act, Utah has established an impressive assistive technology program. According to my fellow Utahn, Ms. Corey Rowley, chairperson of the National Council on Independent Living Assistive Technology Task Force, the effectiveness of the Utah Assistive Technology Program lies in its ability to initiate and coordinate projects with all relevant Utah agencies--an integrated effort that transcends any one piece of federal legislation. 
Prominent among its achievements is the creation of the Utah Center for Assistive Technology in Salt Lake City--a statewide service center that provides invaluable assessments and demonstrations of applicable assistive technology devices to consumers. This center also provides people with informative guidance concerning available resources to acquire these services. While federal funds from the Tech Act were crucial to the center's creation, it is now fully funded by the state. This is an excellent example of how Utah has been able to leverage a small amount of federal funding. 
Mr. President, we must make sure that the Tech Act is reauthorized. While this act has already enhanced the lives of many Americans, a great need still exists. We must do more. It seems clear that the need for assistive technology in the coming years will increase as America's population ages. Moreover, we must take full advantage of scientific and technological advances that can be applied to persons with disabilities. 
Congress will have the opportunity this year to continue a modest federal effort to empower individuals with disabilities to learn, to work, and to prosper. I hope that all my colleagues will support this program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I offer on behalf of myself and Senator Leahy, the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, an amendment in the nature of a substitute to S. 53, the Curt Flood Act of 1997. This bill, which was reported out of the Judiciary Committee on July 31, 1998, by a vote of 12-6, clarifies that the antitrust laws apply to labor relations at the major league level, but does not have any affect on any other persons or circumstances. Given our limited time, I will only make a few brief comments, and would ask unanimous consent that my full statement be entered into the Record. 
In a baseball season that is likely to set records in a number of different categories, I am extremely pleased to be able to report that a truly historic milestone in the history of professional baseball has been reached. People said it would never happen, but today I can tell you that major league baseball players, along with both major and minor league club owners, have reached an agreement on a bill clarifying that the antitrust laws apply to major league professional baseball labor relations. This agreed upon language is reflected in the substitute we are offering today. 
With this historic agreement, I am confident that Congress will, once and for all, make clear that professional baseball players have the same rights as other professional athletes, and will help assure baseball fans across the United States that our national pastime will not again be interrupted by strikes. With the home run battles and exciting pennant races, baseball is enjoying a resurgence. And, as fans are returning to the ballparks, they deserve to know that players will be on the field, not mired in labor disputes. I am pleased that Congress will, it now appears, be able to help guarantee that this is the case. 
Due to an aberrant Supreme Court decision in 1922, labor relations in major league baseball have not been subject to antitrust laws, unlike any other industry in America. In every other professional sport, antitrust laws serve to stabilize relations between the team owners and players unions. That is one of the principal reasons why, in recent years, baseball has experienced more work stoppages, including the disastrous strike of 1994-95, than professional basketball, hockey and football combined. 
In the 103d Congress, the House Judiciary Committee took the first important step by approving legislation which would have ensured that the antitrust laws apply to major league baseball labor relations, without impacting the minor leagues or team relocation issues. During the 104th Congress, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved and reported S. 627, The Major League Baseball Antitrust Reform Act, to apply federal antitrust laws to major league baseball labor relations. None of these bills were passed, however, as many Members of Congress were reluctant to take final action while there was an ongoing labor dispute. 
With the settling of the labor dispute and with the signing of a long term agreement between the major league baseball team owners and the players union, the time was right this Congress finally to address this matter. In fact, in the new collective bargaining agreement, the owners pledged to work with the players to pass legislation that makes clear that major league baseball is subject to the federal antitrust laws with regard to owner-player relations. 
At the beginning of this Congress, we introduced S. 53, a bill which was specifically supported by both the players and owners and which was reported out of the Judiciary Committee almost exactly one year ago. At the Committee markup, however, several Members indicated a concern that the bill might inadvertently have a negative impact on the Minor Leagues. Although both Senator Leahy and myself were firmly of the view that the bill as reported adequately protected the minor leagues against such a consequence, we pledged to work with the minor leagues' representatives, in conjunction with the major league owners and players, to make certain that their concerns were fully addressed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This new bill specifically precludes courts from relying on the bill to change the application of the antitrust laws in areas other than player-owner relations; clarifies who has standing under the new law; and adds several provisions which ensure that the bill will not harm the minor leagues. 
Senator Leahy and I have incorporate these changes into our substitute, which, given its support across the board, we hope and expect to be passed today without objection. I urge my colleagues to adopt this substitute. 
This amendment, while providing major league players with the antitrust protections of their colleagues in the other professional sports, such as basketball and football, is absolutely neutral with respect to the state of the antitrust laws between all entities and in all circumstances other than in the area of employment as between major league owners and players. Whatever the law was the day before this bill passes in those other areas it will continue to be after the bill passes. Let me emphasize that the bill affects no pending or decided cases except to the extent a court would consider exempting major league clubs from the antitrust laws in their dealings with major league players. 
But because of the complex relationship between the major leagues and their affiliated minor leagues, it was necessary to write the bill in a way to direct a court's attention to only those practices, or aspects of practices, that affect major league players. It is for that reason, that a bill that ought to be rather simple to write goes to such lengths to emphasize its neutrality. And, although much of the Report filed by the Committee with respect to S. 53 is still applicable to this substitute, there have been some changes. 
Section 2 states the bill's purpose. As originally contained in S. 53, the purpose section used the word `clarify" instead of the word `state' as used in this substitute. That language had been taken verbatim from the collective bargaining agreement signed in 1997 between major league owners and major league players. When the minor leagues entered the discussions, they objected to the use of the word `clarify' on the grounds that using this term created an inference regarding the current applicability of the antitrust laws to professional baseball. The parties therefore agreed to insert in lieu thereof the word `state.' Both the parties and the Committee agree that Congress is taking no position on the current state of the law one way or the other. It is also for that reason that subsection (b) was inserted, as will be discussed. 
Section 3 amends the Clayton Act to add a new section 27. As was the case with S.53, as reported, new subsection 27(a) states that the antitrust laws apply to actions relating to professional baseball players' employment to play baseball at the major league level and as in S.53 is intended to incorporate the entire jurisprudence of the antitrust laws, as it now exists and as it may develop. 
In order to accommodate the concerns of the minor leagues however, new subsection (a) has been changed by adding the word `directly' immediately before the phrase `relating to or affecting employment' and the phrase `major league players' has been added before the phrase `to play baseball.' These two changes were also made at the behest of the minor leagues in order to ensure that minor league players, particularly those who had spent some time in the major leagues, did not use new subsection (a) as a bootstrap by which to attack conduct, acts, practices or agreements designed to apply to minor league employment. This is in keeping with the neutrality sought by the Committee with respect to parties and circumstances not between major league owners and major league players. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, will the Senator from Ohio yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator will yield to allow me this opportunity to call up the reauthorization of the Office of National Drug Control Policy? I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to do so. 
Let me withhold. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield again? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator withhold on the amendment? As I understand, we can do it at this time and it will only take a minute. 
I ask unanimous consent the pending Daschle amendment be set aside with the understanding we will immediately come back to it after my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this is the reauthorization of the office of the drug czar, National Drug Control Policy. I do believe it has been accepted by both sides. It is critical that we have this amendment agreed to at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This is an amendment to reauthorize the Office of the National Drug Control Policy. 
In this era of passivity and neglect toward what I believe should remain a vigorous war on drugs, we as Americans must refuse to give up the fight against a youth drug plague that is threatening to erode the very core of our society. To do this, we must mount an unflappable effort against this drug scourge that continues to tighten its grip on our nation's children. 
Faced with such an ominous task, it is essential that the Office of National Drug Control Policy be maintained as the principal clearing house for the formulation and implementation of our nation's comprehensive counter-drug strategy. As a nation we simply cannot continue to turn our backs while drug abuse continues to run rampant among our youth. 
For this reason I implore each of my colleagues to support the Hatch/Biden amendment, a substitute to H.R. 2610. This amendment truly represents a bipartisan effort to craft legislation that gives the office a meaningful reauthorization period and strengthens ONDCP's authority over drug control program agencies. In an effort to erase this Administration's abdication of its responsibilities to the Congress, the bill requires enhanced reporting requirements on the effectiveness of the National Drug Control strategy thus imposing far greater accountability to the Congress. It also disposes with an annual strategy that, under the Clinton administration, simply has served as an opportunity to grandstand in an effort to show that the President was going to take the drug war seriously in the future to make up for his past disinterest. Instead, the bill recognizes the comprehensive long term strategy drafted last year, and further requires an annual report that requires each administration to report on the success or failures of its strategy in the previous year. 
This substitute differs principally from the House bill in that it calls for a 4-year versus a 2-year reauthorization period; and, in that it does not statutorily mandate `hard targets' that must be achieved by 2001. Rather, consistent with ONDCP's previous authorization, it requires that ONDCP establish annual measurable objectives and long term goals. In addition, the legislation also officially authorizes ONDCP's Performance Measurement System which will provide the Congress and the American people with the specific data needed to ascertain whether the strategy is working and where changes are necessary. 
The legislation also provides flexibility in the event of a change in Presidents or ONDCP Directors. In such case, the incoming President or Director has the option of either adopting and continuing with the current strategy, or abandoning it in favor of an entirely new strategy. In addition, at any time upon a finding by the President that the current strategy, or certain policies therein, are found not to be sufficiently effective, the President may submit a revised strategy. 
We have worked with ONDCP, the Armed Services Committee, and Senator Biden to resolve a significant disagreement concerning ONDCP's involvement in, and authority over, the development of budgets of other agencies. We have crafted a process which allows ONDCP to have input at all stages of the budget drafting process and to decertify budgets which are inadequate to fulfill the responsibilities given to that agency. It also allows agencies who are forced to alter their budgets at 
the direction of ONDCP to submit an `impact statement' describing how such changes might affect the ability of that agency to fulfill its other responsibilities. 
I oppose a proposal by the administration to disband the office of `Supply Reduction' headed by a deputy director, which was established to coordinate all law enforcement and interdiction programs, both domestic and international. As recognized by the legislation recently introduced by Senator DeWine, which I cosponsored, supply reduction is an integral part of our anti-drug efforts, and we need a deputy director specifically responsible for these efforts. We have, however, incorporated significant reorganizations of the leadership of ONDCP, including the new position of Deputy Director and a Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs. 
We have also strengthened the ONDCP office in many respects, including: (1) Clarifying the Director's authority by adding to his responsibilities that he shall represent the administration before the Congress on all issues relating to the National Drug Control Program, and that he shall serve as the administration's primary spokesperson on drug issues; (2) Requiring the U.S. Department of Agriculture to give ONDCP an annual assessment of the acreage of illegal domestic drug cultivation; and (3) In order to strengthen ONDCP's ability to obtain information from its program agencies, adding provisions that require, upon the request of the Director, heads of departments and agencies under the National Drug Control Program to provide ONDCP with statistics, studies, reports, and other information pertaining to Federal drug abuse programs. 
I might also point out that the definition of `drug control' has been modified in the reauthorization to include underage use of alcohol and tobacco. This change codifies ONDCP policy begun under Republican administrations. 
While I recognize that there remain some concerns over reauthorizing this office in light of the Clinton administration's abysmal record on drugs, it is my belief that we must employ every possible weapon that is available to fight the drug war, including the authorization of a national drug office with teeth, which will be held accountable to take real action in combating illegal drug abuse. This bill achieves that goal. For this reason, I urge each of my colleagues to support this amendment, and to work in a bipartisan manner to address legitimate concerns as we go to conference. 
Let me highlight why this issue is so pressing. Drug use by teenagers is one of the most serious domestic problems facing our nation today: In my mind, it may be the most crucial issue for our nation's ability to craft productive and law-abiding citizens. The worsening problem of drug abuse among our children and teens wreaks havoc on the lives and potential of thousands of young people each year. If we do not act decisively, we will pay a heavy price. 
According to the highly respected Monitoring the Future study published by the University of Michigan, drug use among young people began a steady decline in the early 1980's which continued until 1992. Survey after survey demonstrated that we were on the right track in raising children free from drug abuse. 
These declines, which I believe were largely the result of the strong leadership of Presidents Reagan and Bush, are not just statistics. The 1980's and early 1990's produced a generation of young adults with low rates of substance abuse. We reap the benefits of that fact every day as those young men and women succeed in the workforce and build their families and communities. We see the benefits of our work in the 1980's and early 1990's in the lower drug abuse rates and declining crime rates we find among adults today. 
But just as we are realizing some benefit today from the hard work of the last decade, we will pay the price for the failures of the 1990's. Young people are being raised in an environment lacking in definition of moral leadership. As I saw these trends developing, I spoke out and demanded that this administration reverse course: I particularly recall, in 1993, President Clinton's first drug czar--Lee Brown--saying that drug control was no longer `at the top of the agenda' for the administration. Indeed, the administration's first drug control strategy in 1993 noted that there was developing `a loss of public focus which has also allowed the voices of those who would promote legalization to ring more loudly.' Mr. Brown's concerns regarding legalization, as we all know, were realized in some States. I feared then that the blame for this loss of public focus on the drug war would be laid at the feet of the Clinton administration. The Committee's warnings were frank, continuous, and bipartisan. In recent years, under the leadership of General Barry McCaffrey, we have seen some efforts to make up for the years of neglect. Yet, notwithstanding his efforts I believe drug control--and ONDCP--lack the full backing of President Clinton and the results are indisputable. 
The steady downward trends of the 1980's and early 1990's were tragically reversed. Remember that each percentage point we discuss represents thousands of teens who are much more likely to become bigger problems for society as they become adults. 
As measured by use in the past month, drug abuse by high school seniors jumped 27 percent in 1993, 20 percent in 1994, and an additional 9 percent in 1995. Past-monthly abuse by 10th graders skyrocketed by 27 percent in 1993. The 1996 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse published by Health and Human Services, published last year, shows that between 1992 and 1996 the number of 12- to 17-year-olds having used marijuana in the past year more than doubled--from 1.4 million to 2.9 million. 
The annual use of any illicit drug among high school students has dramatically increased since 1991--from 11 percent to 24 percent in 1996 for 8th graders, from 21 percent to 38 percent for 10th graders, and from 29 percent to 40 percent for 12th graders. 
Lifetime use statistics show a similar trend--from 19 percent in 1991 up to 31 percent in 1996 for 8th graders, from 31 percent up to 45 percent for 10th graders, and from 44 percent to 51 percent for 12th graders. 
As for marijuana use for 8th graders, it is clear that 
marijuana use shot from 10 percent in 1991 to 23 percent in 1997. 
Although marijuana is still the most readily available drug across the United States, teenagers can obtain just about any drug they desire with little problem. Today, illegal drugs are more easily obtained than alcohol or tobacco. 
To those who suggested that marijuana does not serve as a gateway to even more harmful drug use, there are very few instances that I am aware of where the first drug a child ever tried was heroin or methamphetamine. Most teens tell you that they first experimented with marijuana. Studies show that if kids smoke marijuana, they have an 85 times greater propensity to move on to experiment with harder drugs. General Barry McCaffrey should be commended for his personal leadership in fighting the trends towards tolerance for marijuana use. 
While marijuana use increasing, the use of other drugs--harder drugs--is growing at a dramatic rate. The use of methamphetamine has skyrocketed in the Western half of the country. Easy manufacturing and the increasing market have helped make methamphetamine cheaper and more available to kids. 
What is the reason behind this surge in teen drug consumption? I believe several things. First, in recent years there has been a decline in anti-drug messages from elected leaders--like President Clinton--and similar messages in homes, schools, and the media, Second, the debate over the legalization of marijuana and the glorification of drugs in popular culture has caused confusion in our young people. Third, disapproval of drugs and perception of risk has declined among young people. The percent of 8th, 10th, and 12th graders who `disapproved' or `strongly disapproved' of use of various drugs declined steadily from 1991 to 1995. In 1992, 92 percent of 8th graders, 90 percent of 10th graders, and 89 percent of 12th graders disapproved of people who smoked marijuana regularly. By 1996, however, those figures had dropped significantly. 
Previous administrations recognized that education and treatment programs were only effective if coupled with tough criminal deterrence and effective interdiction. Statistics clearly show that as the interdiction dollars go down, drugs use goes up. 
I was recently pleased to hold a hearing on teen drug use. We heard from a teenager named Rachel who recounted her personal experience with drug addiction. We also heard testimony from two physicians, Dr. Nancy Auer and Dr. Sushma Jani who have seen in our emergency rooms and hospitals the devastating effects that drug abuse has had on our nation's youth. Lastly, we heard from Chris, an individual who works as an undercover officer in high schools in Ohio--to protect his continued ability to provide this valuable service, his identity was shielded during the hearing. 
In conclusion, I think it is clear that the rates of youth drug abuse are neither stable nor acceptable, but are instead rising sharply. I was therefore very surprised to hear President Clinton claim on the world stage in his recent speech before the United Nations that `drug use by our young people is stabilizing, and in some categories, declining.' I believe that we are in the middle of a crisis and that the time for action long since passed. 
Passage of this legislation will be a crucial part of that action. 
As I understand it, this is acceptable to both managers of the bill. So I urge its adoption.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote and move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
Mr. DeWINE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I see my friend and colleague, Senator Campbell, on the floor. I would like to briefly discuss with him a concern I have relating to BATF arson task forces. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the manager of the bill for his courtesy. I was very pleased to note that the committee report accompanying this bill specifically notes that the program objectives of the BATF include assisting `Federal, State, and local investigative and regulatory agencies in explosives and arson-related areas.' 
Until recently, BATF was involved in just such a program in my State of Utah, where in the past year there has been a very troubling escalation of arsons connected with the animal rights movement. Utah has experienced a string of animal rights terrorism arsons, including an attack on a West Jordan McDonald's, the firebombing of a Murray mink co-op, and numerous other arsons. 
I am very concerned, however, by reports last week that the BATF has withdrawn the last remaining agent assigned to this task force, leading to its imminent disbandment. I believe this will have a serious negative effect on counter-terrorism efforts in Utah, and will send the wrong message to those pursuing social and political goals through violence. 
I think the Utah task force is exactly the type of program the Subcommittee has in mind, and I would like to ask Senator Campbell if he agrees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Would the Chairman also agree that BATF should devote sufficient resources to ensure the continued viability of these efforts? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would appreciate the Senator working with me to address my concerns over the BATF's withdrawing support for this important task force. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank Senator Campbell for his assistance and his courtesy, and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have been honored to serve here in the Senate for 22 years. I have to say that, to a person, our Capitol Hill Police are terrific human beings; to a person, they are dedicated to their jobs and they want to do the best they can. Frankly, without them, I think this place would not run anywhere near as well as it does. To a person, those of us who knew John Gibson and J.J. Chestnut have to say these are two of the finest who have ever served on Capitol Hill. These are people for whom everybody should have a sense of deep gratitude. They gave their lives as a last full measure of devotion so that many others might live. 
It is a shame that we have people who violate the law and who may be emotionally disturbed and do things like this. And it is an absolute catastrophe and tragedy for the families of these two fine men. Our hearts go out to them. Elaine and I have them in our prayers, as I know other Members of Congress and Members of the Senate do as well. These were two fine men--always courteous, always looking out for not only the Members as they came in and out of those doors and in and out of the Capitol, but for every citizen who came to the People's House time after time--and millions of them do. Both of them had long tenures here and both served every day of those tenures with distinction. 
Mr. President, I want to personally express my gratitude to these men for the sacrifice they have made, and to their families for the sacrifice that they have made. I am sure the families will be taken care of. I hope we will do some good for them and that they will realize how deeply we all feel about the sacrifice that these two brave men gave for us. 
Mr. President, this is one of the great spots on this Earth. It is visited by millions of people. It means so much to those of us who serve in this building. We are vulnerable to people who are emotionally disturbed or who may be terrorists. We are vulnerable to people who are insensitive to the needs of those who serve here. On the other hand, every one of us feels it to be such a privilege to serve in these two great bodies, in this separate branch of government that means so much to the people. We could not serve very well, nor could we accomplish very much if it weren't for the sacrifices of all of our people here on Capitol Hill who work so hard--like John Gibson and J.J. Chestnut. 
Again, Mr. President, I pray to our Father in Heaven that the families of these two heroes will be comforted and cared for. As a Nation, we are deeply grateful for their service. God bless those who remain that we all might keep in remembrance the sacrifice of these two fine men. 
Mr. DURBIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague so that we can do the necessary procedure before the closing remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Con. Res. 112 submitted earlier today by Senators Warner, Moynihan, and Ford. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid on the table, and that any statements relating to the resolution appear in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 483, S. 2206. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the committee substitute be agreed to, the bill be read a third time, and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to S. 2206 appear in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the veto message to accompany H.R. 1122, the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, be considered as read, printed in the Record, and spread in full upon the Journal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I further ask that the veto message be set aside, to be called up by the majority leader, after consultation with the Democratic leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 9:45 a.m. on Tuesday, July 28. I further ask that when the Senate reconvenes on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the routine requests through the morning hour be granted and the Senate then resume consideration of H.R. 1151, the Credit Union Membership Access Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I further ask that the Senate stand in recess from 11:55 a.m. until 12:15 p.m., and then again from 2:45 p.m. until 3:45 p.m. so that Members may attend the memorial services for the fallen Capitol Hill police officers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. For the information of all Senators, when the Senate reconvenes on Tuesday at 9:45 a.m., there will be 15 minutes for closing remarks on the Shelby amendment to the credit union bill. At the conclusion of that debate, at approximately 10 a.m., the Senate will proceed to vote on or in relation to the amendment. Following that vote, it is hoped that the Senate will move quickly to pass the credit union bill. 
After disposition of that legislation, the Senate may begin consideration of the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill. It is also possible during Tuesday's session for the Senate to begin consideration of health care legislation, other appropriations bills, any available conference reports, and any other executive or legislative items cleared for action. 
The majority leader would like to remind Members that the Senate will recess from 11:50 a.m. until approximately 12:15 p.m., and then again from 2:45 p.m. until 3:45 p.m. so that Senators may attend the memorial services in the Rotunda for the fallen police officers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the provisions of H. Con. Res. 310 in memory of the two fallen police officers following the remarks of the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, Senator Byrd. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague for allowing us to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, at the outset, let me say that I don't support the Department of Justice divulging confidential information to foreign governments in an attempt to encourage them, in any way, to take or threaten legal action against any U.S. company. I don't think the Department has done that. They assure me that they have not done that. 
I am aware of the letter that was sent to the Department inquiring whether the Department has encouraged any foreign antitrust authority to take action against Microsoft. I await the Department's formal response to the letter sent by my colleagues. If--and I emphasize if--the Department of Justice was encouraging foreign countries to bring a cause of action against Microsoft--or any other American company--I would do all I can to put a stop to it. The Department of Justice has a responsibility to enforce U.S. antitrust laws--not Japan's, Brazil's or the European Union's. But having said that, the Department assures me they have done no such thing. 
I have to say, though, that, if Microsoft's charges prove groundless, one could reasonably conclude that this appears to be an assault, albeit a faint one, by Microsoft, on the Department of Justice's ongoing efforts to investigate potential violations of U.S. antitrust laws. When I first heard about this allegation, I was surprised that this is the best `offensive' more that their team of lobbyists and Washington lawyers could come up with. I was expecting a much more innovative strategy, given the reported offensive Microsoft has threatened to launch against the Department of Justice. As I said before, I too oppose efforts by our government to encourage or solicit any foreign government to take hostile actions against a U.S. company. 
However, I had a concern that any such amendment not hinder the ability of the Antitrust Division to investigate violations of our--United States'--antitrust laws. And also it does not prohibit mutual assistance that the Department and its foreign counterparts provide to each other under a ratified treaty or as authorized by the International Antitrust Enforcement Assistance Act of 1994. 
Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Gorton and his staff for his cooperation and willingness to work with me and ensure that the amendment does not have any such adverse impact. With this modification I am happy to lend my support to this amendment. 
The International Antitrust Enforcement Assistance Act passed the Senate unanimously in 1994. Let me also say that my friend and colleague, Senator Gorton, did not object to it then. This statute provides the important authority for the Attorney General when a mutual assistance agreement is in place, to cooperate with foreign agencies in assisting each other's efforts to prevent illegal antitrust activities. Given the increasingly international scope of the antitrust laws, it is crucial that the enforcement agencies have sufficient legal authority and the necessary tools to obtain information located abroad that would help them protect American consumers and businesses from antitrust abuses. 
Finally, I again want to thank Senator Gorton for his cooperation and willingness to work with me and I am happy that we were able to work out our concerns with this amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. For some time, I have been disturbed over reports that the Drug Enforcement Administration has been imposing multiple, substantial fines for what amount to minor pharmacy record-keeping violations. I am referring to cases in which no unauthorized person obtain control of controlled substances. 
Violations of sections 842(a)(5) and (10) of the Controlled Substances Act can result in penalties of $25,000 per violation. I understand that between 1989 and 1997, $50 million in such fines have been assessed. 
These provisions of the law adopt a strict liability standard for all record-keeping violations, even a minor error such as a mis-recording of a zipcode, or the insertion of a ditto mark. 
While we all favor strong regulation of controlled substances, a rule of reason should prevail here. 
For that reason, I am supportive of the thrust of the language contained in sections 118 and 199 of S. 2260. 
Section 118 adopts a `knowingly' standard, rather than a strict liability standard. 
Section 119 gives the courts discretion in assessing a fine, unlike current law which is not permissive. In addition, this section lowers the maximum penalty per occurrence from $25,000 to $500. 
In combination, sections 118 and 119 may provide more correction than is warranted. For example, by adding a scienter requirement, while at the same time lowering the maximum fine, we may be creating an atmosphere in which sloppy record keeping is encouraged. 
Overall, however, I am supportive of the work of the Committee in this area of long-standing concern to the Congress, drug wholesalers, pharmacies and drug stores. We should not be using this part of the statute as a `cash cow' to line the government's coffers. 
I will not offer an amendment to these sections at this time. However, I am hopeful that I may work with my colleagues in the Senate and the House to address these concerns in conference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I see my colleague from New Jersey Senator Torricelli, and the distinguished bill manager on the floor. I would like to briefly engage them in a colloquy on the amendment offered by the Senator from New Jersey, relating to model guidelines on bounty hunters to be published by the Attorney General. 
I understand the concerns of Senator Torricelli in this matter. None of us want to see abuses by bounty hunters. I am also sure that he does not wish to do any thing to adversely affect the bail bond industry, which has served our criminal justice system well in providing release of non-dangerous criminal defendants pending trial.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I continue to have some concerns about my colleague's amendment in this respect. However, I believe that these concerns could be resolved during conference. Would the Senator agree to work with me to address this issue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their consideration, and look forward to working with them on this. 
HIGH-TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL- TO MEDIUM-SIZED MANUFACTURERS 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980723</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I appreciate the manager of the bill accepting the amendment I filed to the Commerce-Justice-State appropriations bill, S. 2660, which directs the Attorney General to identify two major metropolitan areas besieged by gun-related crime and to initiate vigorous federal gun prosecution projects in those districts. The amendment directs $3,000,000 in funding for hiring additional prosecutors and investigators to ensure that criminals bearing guns are not released due to a lack of prosecutorial resources. 
The inspiration for this amendment is `Project Exile,' an extraordinarily successful effort by the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia to rid Richmond of armed criminals by `exiling' all those who use firearms to commit a crime to federal prison, regardless of the number of weapons or quantities of drugs seized. `Project Exile' also made use of the media to deliver its message that `An illegal gun will get you five years in federal prison.' That message was plastered on billboards, a city bus, TV commercials, and business cards distributed by local police. 
The results of `Project Exile' speak for themselves. In just one year, over 300 individuals were indicated under Project Exile and 363 guns were seized. More than 191 armed criminals were removed from Richmond's streets, including the members of a violent gang responsible for a number of murders. The average sentence for the individuals that have thus far been convicted and sentenced is 56.1 months. Moreover, homicides for the period from November, 1997 through May, 1998 were running more than 50% below the same period for the previous year and there was a corresponding reduction in the rate of gun carrying by criminals. `Project Exile' has effectively broken the spiral of violent crime in Richmond. 
My colleague, the senior Senator from Idaho, introduced an amendment which was passed yesterday which seeks to set up a similar project in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. The senior Senator from Pennsylvania had earlier secured this funding in the committee report to this bill. It is important, however, that these projects be tested in a number of jurisdictions to ensure that their effectiveness can be measured in a wide range of circumstances. By setting up a number of test projects in different locales, we should be able to prove beyond any doubt that a truly determined and aggressive effort by law enforcement to rigorously enforce existing federal gun laws will have the effect of lowering the incidence of violent crime and will create safer communities for our citizens. 
We don't need tougher gun control laws on abiding citizens to stem violent crime, we need to aggressively use the effective laws we have to take violent criminals off the streets. We saw yesterday where the Senate stands on issues such as mandatory trigger locks on guns and vicarious liability for gunowners, and I am glad that the Senate is devoting even more resources to targeting violent criminals who use guns. I urge my colleagues to support me in this effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am very pleased that the amendment is going to be offered on our behalf by the distinguished Senator from Alabama, Senator Sessions. 
I rise in support of the amendment of the Senator from Alabama to balance the approach between prevention and law enforcement. At the outset, let me commend the Senator from New Hampshire, Senator Gregg, for his outstanding commitment to reducing juvenile crime. His work, I think, has made an outstanding contribution to our efforts. 
All of us have been shocked over the past several months as our Nation has witnessed a series of atrocious crimes committed by juveniles. These incidents bring home to all of us the reality of juvenile crime. The reality is that we can no longer sit silently by as children kill children, as teenagers commit truly heinous offenses, as our juvenile drug abuse rate continues to climb. 
FBI data confirms the national problem of rampant juvenile violent crime. In 1996, juveniles accounted for nearly one-fifth--19 percent--of all criminal arrests in the United States. Persons under 18 committed 15 percent of all murders, 17 percent of all rapes, and 32.1 percent of all robberies. These disturbing figures show the need to fix a broken juvenile justice system that is failing too many of our young people and ultimately failing to protect the public. 
Last year, Congress began the process of addressing this serious national problem. The fiscal year 1998 appropriations bill provided $250 million for a block grant that promotes a commonsense approach to intervene at the earliest signs of trouble. 
A juvenile's first brush with the law is the most important, because it sends a strong signal of what he or she can get away with. Governments cannot afford to wait until a youngster is 16 or 17 years old, and has committed a half a dozen or more violent crimes, before getting serious. 
The block grant funded last year has also promoted making a juvenile's criminal record accessible to police, courts, prosecutors, and schools so that we can know and ascertain who are the serious repeat offenders. Right now, these records simply are not available in NCIC, the national system that tracks adult criminal records. 
We all recognize the value of programs that intervene in the lives of juveniles to prevent crime before it starts. The Federal Government already spends about $4.1 billion a year on programs aimed at delinquent and at-risk youth. We are doing some great things through public-private partnerships, through youth groups like the Boys and Girls Clubs, and we are going to continue to do this. 
I commend Senator Gregg for doubling our effort for this program to $40 million in the bill before us. 
I do not believe, however, that these programs alone can address the sickness that led to some of these recent tragedies. What we need is to ensure that the prevention programs that we have are backed up by a juvenile justice system that takes crime seriously, and imposes real sanctions for juvenile crime. 
Congress has given extensive support to delinquency prevention programs, especially since the Republicans took control of Congress. Congress spent over $200 million on the Office of Juvenile and Delinquency Prevention, OJDP, programs in fiscal year 1998. Compared with fiscal year 1991 funding of $75 million, Congress has increased prevention funding by over two and a half times. The Senate can be proud of its support of prevention programs. We increased prevention funding from $107 million in 1994, up to $144 million in fiscal year 1995. Since then we have steadily increased funding up to its FY 1998 level of over $201 million. 
In fact, there is no shortage in prevention funding. According to a November 1997, General Accounting Office, GAO, report entitled `At-Risk and Delinquent Youth: Multiple Programs Lack Coordinated Approach,' the Federal Government currently spends over $4 billion annually in prevention money for juveniles in 127 different Federal programs. In contrast, the Federal Government spends little money on law enforcement and detention for juvenile offenders. 
The bill before us provides an appropriation for the Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grants of $100 million for fiscal year 1999. This funding level is far too low to meet the needs of our State and local law enforcement. For fiscal year 1998, the grant was set for $250 million. The Senator from Alabama's amendment will help restore funding to critical areas of the juvenile justice system, by reallocating $50 million from what I believe to be an excessive increase in appropriations for the incentive grants for prevention programs under Title V of the JJDPA. This program, funded at $20 million in FY 1998, has been increased over fourfold, to $95 million in the bill before us. 
Senator Sessions' amendment will shift a part of that increase back to the block grant, so that the Senate will be funding this important program at the same level as it proposed in FY 1998. I must say that, in my view, even this amount will still be inadequate, because the need is so great. First, these incentive block grants fund the construction of permanent juvenile corrections facilities. Such facilities are needed to protect law abiding citizens from violent and repeat offenders. Space in secure detention facilities for serious and violent juvenile offenders is in critically short supply 
in many of our States. 
Second, this amendment will provide to aid State and local governments for the integration of serious juvenile criminal records into the national criminal history database, making these delinquency adjudication records available to law enforcement and courts as adult criminal records are now. Right now, these records simply are not available in NCIC, the national system that tracks adult criminal records. As any judge, police officer, or prosecutor will tell you, information is the lifeblood of the criminal justice system. With respect to juvenile criminal records, the system is anemic. Let me provide my colleagues with an example from just one State of what integrating these records into the adult records system can accomplish. Integrating juvenile offender's fingerprints into the records system in Virginia resulted in a significant improvement in identifying crime suspects. In fact, prints of juveniles make up only one percent of Virginia's automated fingerprint identification system, but this one percent accounts for 18 percent of latent crime scene fingerprint identifications. 
Third, this amendment helps States provide drug testing for appropriate categories of juvenile offenders. This testing will help authorities to know what crimes are drug driven, to better target treatment, services, and punishment as appropriate. 
For too long, the Federal Government has neglected to give adequate support to juvenile law enforcement programs. This amendment will help place much needed resources to the law enforcement side of the juvenile justice system. Our current juvenile justice system intervenes too late in the lives of juvenile offenders. All too often, juveniles break the law several times before they are held accountable. Unfortunately, this delay in justice fails to teach youthful offenders the seriousness of their crimes. This chain of events often lead to the tragic juvenile crime newspaper headlines we read in the newspapers nearly every day. We can do better, and the restoration of funds to the juvenile accountability incentive block grant is an important first step. For these reasons, I strongly urge the support of my colleagues for this amendment. 
I believe the Senator from Alabama has a good amendment here that would go a long way toward solving some of these problems we have in juvenile crime. I do believe that we will bring up the juvenile justice bill shortly after we return in September. At that time, we can debate all of these issues in full specific form. 
I thank the majority leader for, I think, being willing to do that. I thank my colleague for being willing to bring this amendment up, which I think pushes us down that road toward better juvenile justice than we have had in the past. He has done a terrific job in this area. He has been singular in his dedication and drive and forthrightness in this area. I think we ought to all listen to him and do our best to back him in the things that he is trying to do, as a former prosecutor, as a former U.S. attorney, as somebody who really knows this area very well. 
With that, I yield the floor.  
Mr. SESSIONS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Reserving the right to object, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, all I ask is that the Senator from Utah be permitted the opportunity to speak following the remarks of the distinguished Senator from Arizona. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to yield to the distinguished chairman while reserving my rights to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Probably less, but if the Senator will list 10 minutes, that is fine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that if my remarks are less than 10 minutes, that it be cut off the time that the Senator asked for. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the amendment proposed by the Senator from Arizona. If adopted, the McCain amendment would result in needless, costly delays in the user process to obtain better facilities for the Patent and Trademark Office. 
Look, we studied this thing to death. We know doggone well if this is delayed again, you are only going to have one bidder instead of three, and there is the question of whether that one bidder will do anything to save any money. 
In fact, the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Arizona would cost a lot more money. Let me make my case. 
The PTO procurement process has been studied to death. We don't need another study. Let me catalog for you the attention that has been paid to this procurement process. The PTO procurement process has been the subject of two comprehensive studies: one by the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce and another by an independent consultant who reported to the Secretary of Commerce. The independent consultant was Jefferson Solutions, which is headed by the former director of OMB's Office of Procurement Policy in the Reagan and Carter administrations. Both studies agreed that the competitive lease procurement should proceed so that the PTO can obtain the benefits of competition. Let me emphasize that, from the start, the PTO procurement process followed all the rules and complied with all the safeguards in the Standard Federal Government Procurement Procedures. 
These studies are in addition to the normal Government procedures. Of course, they do provide for competitive bidding. Mr. President, Senator McCain's amendment calls for a study of the benefits of leasing versus purchase, Federal construction, and other housing alternatives, such as lease purchase. This has already been done. 
The GSA, the Department of Commerce, and the OMB thoroughly evaluated the options before submitting the lease prospectus for congressional approval. Both the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure concurred, when the prospectus was authorized in the fall of 1995, and in light of the limited funds available for capital investment and operating lease of the PTO, that is in the best interest of the PTO's fee-paying customers, which the distinguished Senator from Virginia has raised. 
Furthermore, in a colloquy between Senators Gregg and Warner conducted on the Senate floor during the vote on H.R. 3579, Senator Gregg agreed that no funds would be available in the foreseeable future to purchase or construct a facility to house the PTO. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. 
H.R. 3579, which became law, required the Secretary of Commerce to review the project and submit a report to Congress by March of 1998. This is the Jefferson Solutions report that I referred to earlier. 
The cost-benefit analysis that accompanied it, called the Deva report, showed the PTO will save $72 million over the 20-year life of the lease by consolidating. 
I don't know about the shower curtains, but that is a lot of money to be saving compared to what we would lose if we went ahead with the amendment of the Senator from Arizona. I know he is trying to save money, and I have no problem with that. 
The Jefferson Solutions report found that the consolidation of PTO space through a competitive lease would improve workflow efficiencies and improve the environment for employee retention, as well as reduce costs. 
In addition to these studies and reviews, the procurement process has been tested judicially. A 1997 protest by the existing landlord alleging improprieties in the terms and conditions of the procurement was dismissed. Similarly, an unfair labor practice complaint filed by one of the PTO's unions was dismissed earlier this year. 
Given these numerous studies, reviews, and court tests, why is it that we are here debating this issue yet once again? There appears to be a campaign to delay the procurement process, and I have to ask who is behind it. I don't think it is a matter of $250 shower curtains. 
I know that Senator McCain is not motivated by a desire to merely delay. I am sure he has real concerns based on facts as he views them. But the fact of the matter is, he is talking about peanuts compared to the millions and millions of dollars that will be lost if we do another study rather than go ahead after all of this work has been done, all the studies have been done. It is crazy. Nevertheless, there has been an ongoing campaign to delay this. 
Who is behind it? Is it the parties who use the PTO services? No. The parties who use the PTO are the patent applicants, patentees, and trademark registrants. They oppose this amendment, and they want the procurement process to go ahead. 
But, Mr. President, the current landlord of the PTO makes over $40 million a year from renting space to the PTO. Would 1 year's additional rent be worth mounting a campaign of delay? That is $40 million plus the $72 million we are talking about we lose by another study. I think you can buy a lot of shower curtains for that. 
It would be to the landlord's benefit to delay it. That is why he has hired a major lobbying firm to kill this process. It is not the public demanding a delay, it is the PTO's current landlord. I can hardly blame him, because he will make $40 million more. But I would blame us if we permitted that to go on just because of some shower curtains and a few other things that the distinguished Senator from Arizona has mentioned. 
I conclude, Mr. President, with an assurance that I am as concerned as anyone with cost overruns and lavish spending in the procurement process. I am disturbed by allegations of amphitheaters, exercise tracks, and high-priced furniture. I pledge to work with anyone who has a concern about specific excesses in the procurement prospectus. In fact, I intend to support the Inhofe-Brownback amendment that cuts back on build-out appropriations and the ability of the PTO to get more money for moving expenses. Congress should investigate these particular allegations and take a surgical approach. Another comprehensive study, however, is not the answer. 
Let me just say for the benefit of the distinguished Senator from Arizona, he may have some points here, but they are very, very minor in comparison to the moneys that will be saved by moving ahead rather than having another delay by losing $72 million on one side and $40 million on the other over a few shower curtains. It just seems penny-wise and pound-foolish. I am against this amendment. I hope we defeat it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, usually I have some empathy for what my colleague is saying, but this amendment requires both parties to consent before phone calls are being taped. This hasn't been debated before the Judiciary Committee and involves all kinds of ramifications. 
It is setting a Federal standard where one is not needed, because many States now allow taping by one party. It is brought up only after the Linda Tripp situation. 
I frankly think it is the wrong thing to do. We are willing to look at this, but we are willing to look into this on the Judiciary Committee, and we certainly will do it. But I think it is the wrong thing to do right now. I don't believe we should federalize this at this point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 10 seconds. 
The way to do this is not to federalize it. Let's at least not impose something on the States without full committee hearings before the Judiciary Committee and find out what should be done. 
I am not necessarily saying I am rejecting what the Senator said, but I have to reject it under these circumstances. I hope we will reject it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would like to engage the distinguished manager of the bill, Senator Gregg, in a colloquy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the floor manager and subcommittee chairman. 
I was pleased that the Commerce, Justice, State, Judiciary appropriations bill as reported to the Senate included an increase of $20,000,000 over current levels for the Boys and Girls Clubs, bringing total funding for this outstanding organization to $40,000,000 in fiscal year 1999. 
As the chairman knows, I support additional funding in his bill to allow the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington and the national organization to establish a state-of-the-art national capital flagship Boys and Girls Club facility in Washington, DC, near the Capitol. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. 
Although there is no clarifying language contained in the Senate committee report regarding how the additional $20,000,000 over last year's level would be utilized by the Boys and Girls Clubs, I would hope that the committee's intent was that a significant portion of those additional Boys and Girls Clubs appropriations would be used to cover the cost of establishing the national capital flagship club facility in the Nation's Capital at a site to be selected by the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Washington in consultation with the national organization. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19980722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee for that clarification and I deeply appreciate his strong support for the national capital flagship club facility in Washington. The flagship club will be run by the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Washington in concert with the Boys and Girls Clubs of America and will provide a prototype, technology-based club facility to help troubled youth both here and around the nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to oppose this amendment offered by the Senator from California, and to join Senator Craig in offering our own amendment on this issue. I want to commend my colleague for raising the issue of firearms safety, but I believe that there is a better approach to this issue than the one size fits all, Washington knows best proposal offered by the Senator from California. 
At the outset, let me say that I understand the strongly held views of my colleagues. My colleagues who are offering this amendment are searching for easy answers and quick fixes to the tragedies of juvenile crime and firearms accidents. I would tell them this: there are no easy answers, and there are no quick fixes. In the face of difficult problems, it is always tempting to look for easy answers. I do not believe that we should succumb to this temptation. 
We can pass another federal law adding this gun control measure or that, but the problem won't go away. Because, Mr. President, the problem isn't guns, or a lack of safety devices, or the lack of any other gun control measure. 
We are faced, I believe, with a problem which cannot be solved by the enactment of more federal gun control laws. It is at its core a moral problem. Somehow, in too many instances, we have failed as a society to pass along to the next generation the moral compass that differentiates right from wrong. This cannot be legislated. It will not be restored by the enactment of a new law or the implementation of a new program. But it can be achieved by communities working together to teach accountability by example and by early intervention when the signs clearly point to violent and antisocial behavior, as seems to be the case in some of these tragedies. 
Now, I would like to debate this issue. I think the Senate should be debating juvenile crime legislation. The Judiciary Committee spent eight weeks last summer marking up the most comprehensive reform of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act in that law's twenty-five year history. We could debate how to restore accountability to a broken juvenile justice system. We could debate how to fix a broken system that fails too many of our young people, so that it protects society. But we are not doing that. Instead, we will debate more gun control. 
I should note for my colleagues that this particular provision has already been debated. The Judiciary Committee considered it last summer, and defeated it. Well, here it is again. So, we will debate it yet again. 
This amendment would require a particular safety device to be sold with every firearm. My colleagues who are considering supporting this amendment should understand that no 
safety device is a substitute for firearm safety training and responsible firearm handling. Relying on a trigger lock as a panacea for firearm safety is irresponsible and short-sighted. 
As an initial matter, there is no locking device that can be placed on a loaded firearm which can render it failsafe. Most locking device manufacturers specifically advise against the use of locking devices on a loaded gun. Requiring firearm manufacturers and licensed gun dealers to provide locking devices may send a dangerous message to the American public that it is `OK' to use the locking device on a loaded firearm. In fact, tests show that a loaded firearm affixed with a locking device can still fire. Requiring manufacturers to provide trigger locks with each firearm, therefore, takes a `one size fits all' approach to firearm safety. Because of firearm design differences, not all firearms can be properly safeguarded with a trigger lock. 
Firearms safety training emphasizes personal responsibility in handling a firearm. Education and safety training has been instrumental in lowering firearm accidents and accidental deaths to its lowest point since 1904 (National Safety Council, Accidental Facts, 1996). In 1995 alone, accidental firearm fatalities fell 7%. Due in large part to firearms education, promoted by organizations like the National Rifle Association, the Hunter Education Association, and other volunteer groups, firearms were involved in 1.5% of all accidental deaths nationwide. This percentage is lower than deaths due to motor vehicle accidents (47%), falling (13.5%), poisoning (11.4%), fire 4.4%), and choking (3%) (National Safety Council, National Center for Health Statistics). 
Additionally, different circumstances dictate how an individual stores his firearm. While some people may choose to lock their firearms in a safe, someone else may choose to keep their firearm readily accessible for self-protection. Thus, locking devices may or may not be compatible with a person's lifestyle and reason for owning a firearm. 
Mr. President, safety locks are already widely available, as are a wide range of other firearms safety devices. Industry is already making strides in offering these devices for sale. We do not need yet another federal mandate imposing a one size fits all safety `solution' on America's law abiding gun owners. 
Instead, I offer my colleagues an alternative. My proposal will do far more to promote true firearms safety, and it is far more respectful of the common sense of the American people, than my friend's proposal. My amendment does three things. First, it expands the definition of safety devices to include not only devices that render a firearm 
temporarily unusable, but also temporarily inaccessible. As a result, my second degree amendment includes safety devices, such as safes and lock boxes, that do not disable a firearm, but make it at least temporarily inaccessible to a person. 
Second, my amendment requires that vendors have safety devices available for sale, but it does not require that a vendor sell a safety device along with every firearm. Having them available for sale will help to ensure that purchasers will obtain, and thereafter will use, a safety device, without necessarily increasing the cost of the purchase. The Administration's provision embodied in my colleague's proposal would increase the cost of purchasing a firearm, which is unnecessary. Some safety devices, such as a safe or lock box, can hold more than one firearm, so there is no need to require that a person buy a new safety device if buying a second firearm. 
Third, my amendment helps to ensure that this new requirement is entirely tort neutral. The amendment provides that it does not establish a standard of care, and it further states that evidence regarding compliance or noncompliance with this requirement is inadmissible in court. The amendment therefore does not help or hurt a plaintiff or a defendant. 
Finally, my amendment helps to ensure that state and local law enforcement authorities can train members of the public in the safe possession, carry, and use of firearms. This is valuable. Training is the best way to ensure that firearms are treated with respect, but not with fear. Firearms handling is an important part of the training process for every soldier and every law enforcement officer, and it can be a valuable tool for private citizens. After all, about 34 States--including my home state of Utah--now empower citizens to carry concealed firearms for protection. Allowing Byrne grant funds to be used by state and local law enforcement agencies to train the public in the safe handling of firearms will make a positive contribution to safety and to crime prevention. 
Taken together, all of these provisions deal with the issue of firearms safety in a far better manner than the amendment offered by my colleague. Moreover, this is the provision adopted by the Judiciary Committee last year, during the mark-up of S. 10, the Juvenile crime bill. I urge my colleagues to agree with the considered judgment of the Judiciary Committee, and support my alternative to this amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could I ask the distinguished Senator from Texas to withhold his objection? This should not---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield 30 seconds to me? 
Mr. GRAMM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my friend and colleague from Arizona for being willing to work out this difficulty. There was, I think, a misunderstanding on this matter. We have reached an acceptable compromise that will encourage us to work together on these issues for the benefit of all of our constituents and the affected industries with deliberate speed. I hope that we can work together to fashion a comprehensive reform of the relevant laws and regulations that will increase the range of options that television viewers will have. 
The rates will be rolled back until early next year; that is, until March 31, when we would hope and expect Congress to be able to adopt meaningful comprehensive reform of the issues affecting the satellite industries and their customers. 
So, again, I want to thank my colleague for being willing to vitiate the prior vote, being willing to work out this compromise, and I express my desire to work together with him as chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and I believe my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee will as well with him, as chairman of the Commerce Committee, and hopefully we can resolve the matters in the best interests of all Americans--both individuals and affected industries. And, again, I just express my appreciation. 
Parliamentary inquiry. Is that modification accepted? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have been listening to my distinguished colleague from Arkansas and his very literal discussion of the grand jury process. It isn't quite as simple as my colleague is explaining. 
The reason we have a grand jury process and the reason we don't allow attorneys in there is because that process is to remain secret. Under rule 6(e) of the Federal rules, people are not allowed to talk about what happens within the grand jury--certainly the prosecutors are not allowed to talk about it. That doesn't mean they have to be totally, meticulously unable to talk about the cases that they are handling. But basic 6(e) grand jury testimony is not permitted to be talked about, and there is a reason for that. There is a reason for not allowing attorneys into the grand jury proceedings. 
The distinguished Senator from Arkansas seems to have the opinion that in almost every case, or at least in many cases, prosecutors will act irresponsibly, improperly, will take advantage of witnesses, will abuse the law. And I do not believe that is the case. 
But one reason why grand jury proceedings have been basically secretive is because, let us say the prosecution was doing a major investigation of organized crime. You can bet your bottom dollar with every witness who goes before that grand jury they would have the same organized crime attorney or attorney representing organized crime or those organized criminals in that grand jury proceeding. Every one of them would want that attorney there, except those who are blowing the whistle on the criminals for whom the grand jury is being held to begin with. 
In other words, it would be almost impossible to ever get a witness to come forward in grand jury proceedings of any consequence involving organized crime, and sometimes not so organized crime, because the minute that person appeared, it would be known who literally was testifying against the people whom the prosecutors were trying to bring the actions against. 
So it isn't quite as simple as the distinguished Senator has said, although I share some of his concerns. If there is any evidence that grand jury proceedings have been used to abuse witnesses or have been used to seduce witnesses into incriminating themselves, or have been used to ask questions that are irrelevant, such as some of those suggested by my distinguished colleague, then, yes, I agree with him, something ought to be done to prevent those types of things from happening, and perhaps we should look at this whole area. 
On the other hand, we have suggested to him that the way to do this would be, of course, to let the judicial conference look at this and make recommendations and really look at all sides of this issue so we do not go into this half cocked and throw out a system that has served this country well over 200 years just because there are some alleged occasional prosecutors who might abuse the process. 
It is not quite as simple as people try to make it seem. The grand jury proceeding has served this country well for well over 200 years. And, yes, some of these issues that are raised are ones that trouble me as well. But before we throw this out and before we decide to allow attorneys in the room, then it seems to me we ought to at least have a thorough study to determine whether throwing it out is the thing to do, whether that is going to really be a better process than what we have today. I don't think it will be. 
But it does not take many brains to realize the current grand jury process is one-sided. The prosecutor can present whatever the prosecutor wants. And unscrupulous prosecutors can bring an indictment against almost anybody by just basically asking the grand jury to do it, because there is nobody in there to represent the rights of the accused. 
The distinguished Senator does raise some very important issues, but I would prefer that we look at this in a very broad-based study that really looks at the pros, the cons, the good, the bad, and helps us to make a determination here. If, after a study like that, we find that the distinguished Senator is primarily right, and that there are many injustices that occur through grand jury proceedings, then I would be the first to join him in making the changes that he would request here this evening. 
But frankly, I think that is the type of thing that should be done, that should be done carefully and deliberately. And we should not throw out 200 years of history and 200 years of grand jury proceedings that have served this country at least ostensibly very well because we are concerned that there may be some abuses of this particular process in some instances. 
My experience has been that there are very seldom abuses, that the system works well, that it is a system that can bring indictments against those who deserve indictments brought against them; and especially in the area of organized crime, it is a very useful and worthwhile system. 
Having said that, that does not mean that I am ignoring what my distinguished friend and colleague has said or what he believes, because I myself have some concerns, as he does. Personally, I believe that in most instances it is a good thing to give people the right to have their counsel there. And remember, grand jury proceedings can bring down indictments but they cannot convict people. 
On the other hand, once the indictment is brought down, that amounts to a criminal defense that must be waged in almost every case. So I hope that I can talk my colleague into having a major, major review and study of this rather than doing something that literally throws out the system or at least changes the system dramatically in such a way that might have very detrimental effects in our getting to the bottom of organized crime, to the bottom of organized criminal conduct with regard to drugs, to the bottom of criminal activity in general where witnesses might be intimidated or afraid to even appear before grand juries. 
The more we do this, I think the more we are going to find that some of those concerns may outweigh some of the concerns that the distinguished Senator has, because I do not believe that you can point to many instances as a whole--as a whole--where the feelings or complaints of the distinguished Senator from Arkansas are actually fulfilled. 
Currently, all witnesses may leave the grand jury proceeding or grand jury room to consult with their attorneys anytime they want. Now the Senator makes a good point when he says, How is that person going to know whether they are incriminating themselves if they are not skilled in the law, if you have a skillful grand jury prosecutor in there asking questions? And that is a tough question to answer. 
But the fact of the matter is that if they have an attorney to begin with, that attorney is going to say, `Don't answer anything unless you talk to me, so tell them after each question you want to come out and talk to me.' That has been my experience where you have attorneys who are concerned about their clients going in before the grand jury. And there is a way to be represented by an attorney to not say one word or to answer one question without continuously going out and discussing it with your attorney. So there is a protection. 
The difference is that, if I am correct--and I believe I am--there are instances where the grand jury proceeding works better than any other system we have ever had, especially in the area of organized crime. I would be very hesitant to throw out that system without the study by those who are experts in this field and those who really can make a difference in determining just what is right and what is wrong here. 
But having said that, I have raised these concerns. I hope my colleague will consider having a study. I would join with him in that. We can place a limited period of time on it, and if that study proves to augment his feelings and proves his thesis here, then I may very well join with him in making the changes that he would like to make here today. 
I yield the floor. 
Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would ask to engage the Senator from New Hampshire, Mr. Gregg, and the Senator from Delaware, Mr. Biden, in a brief colloquy regarding a portion of the report which accompanies the bill, directing the Attorney General to develop a 5-year interdepartmental drug control strategy. Both Senator Biden and I believe that this provision may be misinterpreted, and I request the Senator's assistance in providing some clarification. As a general matter, I have long believed that an effective national drug strategy can best be developed and implemented if we have one responsible official charged with that duty. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is true, but the report language seems to suggest that the Attorney General assume some of these responsibilities. Is this how the Committee meant for its guidance to be interpreted? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As the sponsor, along with the Senator from Delaware, of legislation pending on the floor which would reauthorize the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and maintain its duty to formulate and implement the National Drug Control Strategy and Performance Measures of Effectiveness System, I agree that the Department of Justice should assist ONDCP in these important tasks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So, if I correctly understand the Senator from New Hampshire, it is not then the Committee's intent to place the Attorney General in charge of formulating the National Drug Control Strategy?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I also thank the Senator from New Hampshire for addressing my concerns on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to address the current controversy over whether Secret Service agents and employees should testify before the grand jury convened by the Independent Counsel, Judge Kenneth Starr. At noon today, the Chief Justice of the United States denied the Department of Justice's request for a stay of the order compelling Secret Service agents to comply with subpoenas. Thus, every level of the federal judiciary, including the Supreme Court, has now rejected the arguments advanced by the Department of Justice in support of a judicially-created `protective function' privilege. I sincerely hope that the Service and the Department will abide by these decisions and that the agents will testify truthfully and fully before the grand jury. 
In my view, the Secret Service's duty to protect the President does raise legitimate issues about whether agents should receive special privileges before being forced to disclose what they see or hear as a result of being so physically close to the President. However, the Department of Justice has taken these legitimate factual concerns and used them for political reasons to mount a fruitless legal battle to find a court, any court, to concoct this privilege out of thin air. In so doing, at least in my opinion, the Department has squandered its own credibility and acted solely as the defense attorney for the President in his personal legal problems. 
The trial judge and the D.C. Circuit have it right: there is no way for a court to conjure up a `protective function' privilege out of whole cloth. The Court of Appeals which rejected the Department's arguments concluded: 
We leave to Congress the question whether a protective function privilege is appropriate in order to ensure the safety of the President and, if so, what the contours of that privilege should be. 
I have offered to lead such an effort in the Congress to craft a narrow privilege, and therefore I am at a loss as to the Department's motivations for so many appeals. I am worried, however, that the lengthy obstruction will lead my colleagues to conclude that the Service is not worthy of our support, and make it much more difficult for me to try to help them. 
The narrow privilege I envision would address legitimate concerns of the Secret Service, but I am sure it would not be the broad, impenetrable privilege advocated by the Service, nor should it be. But a Congressional solution which `splits the baby' is possible. As the Washington Post concluded in an editorial this morning:  
Any protection must recognize the responsibility of law enforcement officers to aid criminal investigations. 
I hope that the circumstances when testimony by Secret Service agents is taken are limited to the most serious cases where the testimony is unique and directly related to accusations of criminal behavior. I am concerned, for example, that agents should not, under normal circumstances, be forced to testify before Congressional Committees or in civil matters. Again, I plan to address these issues when the Judiciary Committee holds hearings next year. 
One particular issue I will address during these hearings is whether the presence of a Secret Service agent at a conversation between an attorney and the protected person should negate the attorney-client privilege. Now the law generally is that having another non-lawyer present voids the privilege, at least as to that person. I do not believe we want this outcome, and I plan to work on creating an exception to correct this problem. I should point out that press accounts have recounted promises made by Judge Starr that he will not attempt to use testimony by Secret Service personnel to pierce protected conversations. 
I have to also add that if Secret Service Agent Cockell was in the President's presence because he had to be in the car to protect the President, and overheard conversations between the President and Mr. Bennett, his attorney, or between the President and Mr. Kendall, his attorney, or any other attorney of the President's, he had to be there as much as the seat they sat on had to be there. So I hope, even though technically the privilege would be waived because of Secret Servant Agent Cockell, I hope the Independent Counsel would respect that particular position of the Secret Service agent, and I have no doubt that he would. After all, there is some comity that must occur, even in matters like these. 
In any event, that is something we can clarify next year, and I intend to do so. I have to say, neither attorney Robert Bennett nor David Kendall is an inexperienced attorney. I doubt if either of them would have discussed crucial secret matters with the President before anybody else, including a Secret Service agent. So I think this is a much overblown point, and I have no doubt that Judge Starr did not intend to pierce that type of conversation anyway. But that still does not relieve the Secret Service agents of their duty as law enforcement officers to make sure that criminal activity is not undertaken or, if it is undertaken, to make sure that they do everything they can to stop it. 
I should note, however, that the Secret Service has been its own worst enemy here. No court is going to create this privilege out of thin air, and thus until Congress acts, the Service may have to provide testimony without any exceptions. I am talking about this so-called `protective function' privilege. But rather than come to Congress to work constructively, the Service has fought a futile effort in the courts of this land. 
Many of the President's apologists have cited this current controversy as another alleged example of Judge Starr being too aggressive in his search for evidence related to the Lewinsky matter. But let's look at the record: 
When Judge Starr sought evidence from White House employees, the Justice Department and the White House claimed privilege: the court sided with Starr. 
When Judge Starr sought evidence from government attorneys, the Justice Department and the White House claimed privilege: the court sided with Starr. 
When Judge Starr sought evidence from Secret Service agents, the Service and the Department claimed privilege: the court sided with Starr. 
When Judge Starr sought evidence from Monica Lewinsky's first attorney, he claimed privilege: the court sided with Starr. 
When Judge Starr sought evidence from a bookstore, it claimed privilege: the court sided with Starr. 
And just over the last 48 hours when Judge Starr sought evidence from additional Secret Service personnel, the Justice Department and the White House claimed privilege: the District Court, the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court all sided with Starr. 
I hope when the pundits talk about these controversies, they remember that, when it comes to debates on privileges, Judge Starr has an impressive record. It is easy to criticize a prosecutor for being overly-aggressive in seeking evidence, but let us all remember that Judge Starr has not only a right, but an obligation, to conduct a complete investigation within the bounds of the law. As demonstrated by his impeccable record before impartial judges, he has done exactly that. 
Lastly, it is hard to believe that the same White House that less than six weeks ago fought Judge Starr's request to have the Supreme Court take an expedited appeal of the Secret Service issue--and then gloated when the Supreme Court denied the request--resorted to an emergency appeal to the exact same court on the same issue. The hypocrisy speaks for itself. 
Mr. President, I have confidence that Judge Starr will do what is right here. I have confidence that the Secret Service men and women will do what is right here. There is no excuse for the Justice Department--nor, I might add, the Treasury Department--to continue to pursue these fruitless claims. I was willing to go along with the pursuit of the claims to try to get the court involved en banc--the 11 sitting judges of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia--to make a decision on this. But anything beyond that just smacks of delay, and I believe that is exactly what is happening, especially since the White House has been slapped down so hard and the Justice Department has been slapped down in no uncertain terms, a number of times, on this very issue. I think it is time for them to wake up and realize they represent all of the taxpayers in this country and that they have an obligation to live within the law themselves and to not make any further frivolous appeals of this matter. 
It is my understanding that they still are asking for the Supreme Court to grant certiorari in this matter. I can't imagine why they would do that after what they have seen in both the district court and now the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, and with the rejection of the stay by Justice Rehnquist. It seems to me that just smacks of another fruitless appeal for delay. 
I do understand why the head of the Secret Service and others would fight for their Secret Service people and would try to take it to the nth degree. But that nth degree, it seems to me, ended with the Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Anything more than that seems to me to be highly frivolous, a delaying tactic that literally should not be done. 
I think the Secret Service ought to come to us and help us to fashion a way so they can have certain protections with regard to the closeness that they have to the President of the United States, and we will try to give them that kind of protection. We will try to find some way of giving them a privilege from testifying in matters that do not involve criminal activity, among other things. 
We will have to have hearings, and we will have to look at it very carefully, because it is a broad privilege they are asking for. They will never get exactly what they want, because I think people on both sides of the aisle will acknowledge that if it comes to criminal activity, if there is any criminal activity that they have observed or they participated in--and I doubt they have done anything like that, and I hope they haven't observed any criminal activity--they have an obligation, as law enforcement officers, to cooperate with the courts and to cooperate in getting to the bottom of these things and getting these matters resolved. 
With that, I thank my colleagues for letting me have this time. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I call the Senate's attention to an issue that is very important to our livestock producers and small meatpackers. I know that my colleagues are aware of the difficulties the livestock industry has faced in recent years. In an effort to find solutions for small farmers and livestock producers, the Secretary of Agriculture called three separate commissions: The Advisory Committee on Agricultural Concentration, the National Commission on Small Farms, and the National Advisory Committee on Meat and Poultry Inspection. Each of these commissions has recommended that the ban restricting the interstate distribution of state-inspected meat be lifted. For that reason I have introduced, along with Senators Feingold, Thomas, Brownback, Landrieu, Burns, Enzi, and Roberts, S. 1291, The Interstate Distribution of State-inspected Meat Act. This proposal would lift the ban on interstate distribution of state-inspected beef, pork, and poultry, which are the only products in the United States that face such a restriction. This measure is endorsemed by the Farm Bureau, the Farmers Union, the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, and the American Sheep Industry Association. This issue is one of both fairness and common sense, and I believe it merits consideration by the Senate. 
I'd like to ask the distinguished Chairman of the Agriculture Committee if he would hold hearings in the Agriculture Committee on this proposal sometime in the near future, so we could promptly consider the measure next year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I appreciate the willingness of the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee to give this legislation a hearing, and I believe it will make for an interesting one. I look forward to working with the distinguished Senator from Indiana and the Agriculture Committee on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as I am sure my distinguished colleague, the Chairman of the Subcommittee, is aware, the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA) included a significant provision related to FDA's review and approval of indirect food additives. For the benefit of my colleagues, these are products that are used for containers, wrappings and packaging of food products. 
To ensure the safety of indirect food additives, these materials that touch or contain food, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) must receive safety data submitted by the manufacturer. Often, FDA's process of evaluating these data has been extremely lengthy and has worked to delay the market availability of new and improved products. As a result, many companies have chosen simply not to bring new products to market, thus depriving the public of improvements in products and technology. 
In order to address this concern, a provision was included in FDAMA which requires the FDA to establish a new and expedited new product notification and review process that will substantially improve the situation for manufacturers of indirect food additives and thus the consumers of packaged food products. However, under section 309 of FDAMA, the provision will only become effective if the FDA receives an appropriation of $1.5 million for FY 1999. Subject to this new appropriation, FDA would be required to set the program in motion by April 1, 1999. 
I am aware that the House mark does include funding for the indirect food additive pre-market notification program, but at a level of $500,000. While this certainly indicates the intention and willingness of the House to fund the program, unfortunately the amount is not sufficient to meet the specific requirements of FDAMA. 
I am extremely mindful of the tight allocation under which S. 2159 was crafted, and I recognize that it was not an easy task to bring this bill forward today. I am very grateful for the Subcommittee's efforts under the leadership of Chairman Cochran. At the same time, I hope the Chairman will agree with me that funding of this important FDA reform is critically important and that the conferees will try to work this out so that the new program can be implemented next year. 
Mr. COCHRAN: The Committee was mindful of this problem, and, in fact, included report language indicating its awareness of the need to implement the premarket notification provisions in order to spur innovation of new and improved food packaging materials. As you said, we are operating under a very tight allocation, but we will do our best to try to work this out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to commend my friend, the Senator from Mississippi, for his stewardship of this important bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the bottom line of this letter was to urge the Chairman and members of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee to increase funding for the cosmetics program to $6 million. 
I am pleased that the Report accompanying the Senate bill encourages the FDA to restore funding for this program to the funding levels of previous years. Because nearly every American uses a cosmetic product each day, it is important that the regulatory program for cosmetics in the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition's Office of Cosmetics and Colors be adequately funded. I understand that our colleagues on the House side have wisely provided an increase of $2.5 million to keep this program at previous funding levels. 
I would hope that we can work with our colleagues in the other chamber to see that the final version of this bill that emerges from conference does indeed contain the $2.5 million increase that the House provides and would restore the cosmetic program to the $6 million level. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, over the past several years, I have highlighted my growing concern about the Food and Drug Administration's failure to meet statutory deadlines with respect to a number of very important consumer products it regulates, including medical devices, food additives and generic drugs. 
I would note that enactment of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA) is intended to address some of those concerns, especially with respect to innovator drugs. 
But a very real concern remains about the generic side of the equation. 
My colleagues should be aware that, despite a requirement in the law that generic applications be acted upon within 180 days, the review time usually takes far longer. In fact, in its budget justification submitted to Congress this February, the agency reveals that only 50% of the applications receive final agency action within the statutory deadline, and the mean review time is 25.6 months. 
This is a matter of significant concern to me, and, I believe, to the Congress as well. As the Committee noted in the report to accompany S. 2159: 
In light of the fact that generic drugs provide important cost benefits to consumers and the Federal Government, the Committee also encourages the FDA to devote additional resources to generic drug reviews in order to address the backlog of applications and provide reviews within the 6-month period required by statute. 
Later, the Committee goes on to say: 
FDA delays have significant implications for public health. Each FDA delay extends the time it takes for consumers to benefit from new products that provide significant therapeutic benefits. The Committee believes that FDA's statutory obligations to perform its core regulatory activities must remain the agency's top priority. 
The failure of the FDA to devote sufficient resources to the Office of Generic Drugs is penny-wise but pound-foolish. Generic drugs can provide significant benefits to consumers. They typically enter the market at a price 30% below their brand-name equivalents, and decline in price to 60%-70% below the brand product price over time. 
Generic drugs have provided consumers with lower cost alternatives to innovator drugs, and they will continue to do so in the future. Over the next decade, a number of important pharmaceutical patents will expire, with cumulative annual sales in the tens of billions of dollars, and with the potential of tremendous consumer benefits. These benefits could be significantly diminished if there are not adequate abbreviated new drug application reviewers. It is as simple as that. 
Last year, due to the concerted leadership of Chairman Cochran and others, the FDA was directed to submit a detailed operating plan which yielded an increase of $702,000 for the Office of Generic Drugs (OGD). I was, and am, very appreciative of these efforts. 
It is my understanding that the House Appropriations Committee has provided an additional $1 million to OGD this year; I strongly support the House mark and only wish it could have been even higher. 
When the agriculture appropriations bill goes to conference, I hope that conferees will build upon last year's record and will continue to increase funding for generic drug reviews. I know that it is always hard to find additional money given the budgetary constraints we face, but a very small amount of money in Federal budget terms can have a very large impact here, especially for those, particularly senior citizens, who lack prescription drug coverage. 
APHIS/WILDLIFE SERVICES 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to proceed to the consideration of S. 2271, the Property Rights Implementation Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Brian Day, one of my law clerks, have floor privileges during the pendency of the property rights debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, the people of Utah, and indeed, of all of our States, have felt the heavy hand of the government erode their right to hold and enjoy private property. I have authored and cosponsored many bills in the past that would protect private property from the jaws of the regulatory state. 
Our opponents on the left and the radical, so-called environmental groups, however, have been successful so-far in derailing the consideration of more needed reform measures. But I believe we have the opportunity to pass a narrower yet meaningful piece of legislation. The substitute we are considering today, S. 2271, the `Property Rights Implementation Act,' narrows H.R. 1534, which passed the House of Representatives on October 23, 1997, by a 248 to 178 vote. After the House passed bill was referred to the Judiciary Committee, we met with local, environmental, and governmental groups in an effort to meet their concerns. The product of those meetings is the S. 2271 substitute. 
Mr. President, I hope the Senate will allow us to proceed to consideration of this bill. How can we work to further improve this bill if your colleagues will not let us proceed to vote. This is a worthwhile bill that resolves many problems. I call on my colleagues to vote for cloture so that we may address those problems on the merits. 
The purpose of S. 2271, is, at its root, primarily one of fostering fundamental fairness and simple justice for the many millions of Americans who possess or own property. Many citizens who attempt to protect their property rights guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution are barred from the doors of the federal courthouse. 
In situations where other than Fifth Amendment property rights are sought to be enforced--such as First Amendment rights, for example--aggrieved parties generally file in a single federal forum without having to exhaust state and local procedures. This is not the case for property owners. 
Often they must exhaust all state remedies with the result that they may have to wait for over a decade before their rights are allowed to be vindicated in federal court--if they get there at all. Moreover, the federal jurisdiction over property rights claims against federal agencies and Executive Branch Departments is in a muddle. In these types of cases, property owners face onerous procedural hurdles unique in federal litigation. 
The Property Rights Implementation Act, if we are allowed to even consider it, primarily addresses the problem of providing property owners fair access to federal courts to vindicate their federal constitutional rights. The bill is thus merely procedural and does not create new substantive rights. 
Consequently, the bill has two purposes. The first is to provide private property owners claiming a violation of the Fifth Amendment's taking clause some certainty as to when they may file the claim in federal court. This is accomplished by addressing the procedural hurdles of the ripeness and abstention doctrines which currently prevent them from having fair and equal access to federal court. S. 2271 defines when a final agency decision has occurred for purposes of meeting the ripeness requirement and prohibits a federal judge from abstaining from or relinquishing jurisdiction when the case does not allege any violation of a state law, right, or privilege. Thus, S. 2271 serves as a vehicle for overcoming federal judicial reluctance to review takings claims based on the ripeness and abstention doctrines. 
The second purpose of the bill is to clarify the jurisdiction between the Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C., and the regional federal district courts over federal Fifth Amendment takings claims. The Tucker Act grants the Court of Federal Claims exclusive jurisdiction over takings claims seeking compensation. Thus, property owners seeking equitable relief must file in the appropriate federal district court. 
This division between law and equity is archaic and results in burdensome delays as property owners who seek both types of relief are `shuffled' from one court to the other to determine which court is the proper forum for review. S. 2271 resolves this matter by simply giving both courts concurrent jurisdiction over takings claims, thus allowing both legal and equitable relief to be granted in a single forum. I will address this conundrum of the `Tucker Act shuffle' in more detail in a later speech. 
I. HOW THE BILL WORKS 
Let me briefly explain how the procedural aspects of the bill, designed to assure fairness, work. One of the hurdles property owners face when trying to have their Federal claim heard on the merits is the doctrine of abstention. Federal courts routinely abstain their jurisdiction and refer the case to state court, even if there is no State or local claim alleged. This is true only for property rights cases. 
The bill would clarify that a Federal court shall not abstain its jurisdiction if only Federal claims are alleged. To protect State's rights, the bill allows an unsettled question of State law that arises in the course of the Federal claim to be certified in the highest appellate court of that State, under whatever certification procedures exist in that State. Federal courts would retain their jurisdiction, but the unsettled State law question would be answered in State, not Federal court. In the few States where no certification procedures exist, property owners would be unable to benefit from that expedited procedure. 
The second hurdle the bill would resolve is the problem of `ripeness'. Current law requires a property owner to get a `final decision' from the land use agency to which he or she has applied before their Federal claim can be heard in Federal court. S. 2271 simply provides an objective definition of a `final decision' so that both parties in a land use dispute will know when `enough is enough.' The bill outlines the steps a property owner must take to resolve a dispute at the local level before a final decision by the agency in question has been reached. 
The process clarified by the bill protects both States rights and the individual rights guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment. Before a land use decision is defined as `final': A property owner must make a meaningful application for a land use to the agency. If the application is denied, the property owner must make an appeal or seek a waiver of the denial. If rejected a second time, a final decision has been reached unless there is an elected local body with the authority to review land use appeals. In that case the property owner must submit another application and be denied a third time before a decision is defined as final. 
The bill provides yet another layer of local decision making. In rejecting the property owners land use application, the agency may chose to provide a written explanation for the denial and explain the uses, density, and intensity of development that would be permitted on the property in question. If such an explanation is provided, the decision will not be considered final until the property owner resubmits a new application taking into account the conditions of the original denial. If the property owner is again rejected, and rejected on appeal, the decision is considered final. 
In all instances, the property owner is exempted from making an appeal or seeking a waiver if no such appeal or waiver exists, or if doing so would be futile. The concept of `futility' is established in existing case law. The purpose of this exemption is to ensure that property owners are not trapped in a futile situation where time and money is wasted seeking such relief where the prospect is virtually nonexistent. 
In short, the bill is very simple and protects the rights of localities by requiring that property owners comply with local procedures before they seek relief in Federal court.  
II. THE NEED FOR LEGISLATION--THE RIPENESS PROBLEM 
Mr. President, let me amplify why this legislation is desperately needed. The first part of the bill deals with the ripeness doctrine, a doctrine which has been misused in a manner that prevents property owners from vindicating what, after all, is a Federal right in Federal court. 
Let me begin by reminding my colleagues that the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution protects individuals from having their private property `taken' by the Government without receiving just compensation. A complex body of law has developed from the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment and is used by Federal courts to determine whether a `taking' has occurred. 
In conjunction with this complex body of takings law, an equally complex set of procedural doctrines has also developed for use by Federal courts to determine whether the core substantive issues involved in the takings claim are ready to be heard. These procedural doctrines are known as the doctrines of `ripeness' and, I might add, 
`abstention.' 
Under current case law, a takings claim must be `ripe' in order to be heard in Federal court. In a key decision entitled Williamson County Planning Comm'n v. Hamilton Bank of Johnson City, 473 U.S. 172 (1985), the Supreme Court attempted to clarify the principles of the ripeness doctrine. 
The Court stated that a takings claimant must show: (1) that there has been issued a `final decision regarding the application of the regulations to the property at issue' from `the government entity charged with implementing the regulations,' and (2) that the claimant requested `compensation through the procedures the State has provided for doing so.' [Id. at 194.] A takings plaintiff must meet both requirements before the case will be considered ripe for federal adjudication; if either has not been met, then the claimant will be procedurally barred from bringing such a claim in Federal court. 
Unfortunately, the lower court decisions which subsequently have attempted to apply the ripeness principles set forth in Williamson County have only served to create much confusion over when a claim becomes ripe. Property owners have been left with no clear understanding of how many proposals or applications must be submitted before their takings claim would be considered ripe. 
For example, in Southview Assocs. v. Bongartz, 980 F.2d 84, 92 (2d Cir. 1992), cert. denied, 507 U.S. 987 (1993), the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit decided a takings claim was not ripe because the landowner `did not attempt to modify the location of the units or otherwise seek to revise its application.' The court failed to decide how many reapplications would be necessary to reach the merits. 
In Schulze v. Milne, 849 F.Supp. 708 (N.D. Cal. 1994), aff'd in part, rev'd in part on other grounds, 98 F.3d 1346 (9th Cir. 1996), property owners submitted a total of thirteen (13) revised plans over three years to renovate their home. Each time they submitted a plan `in compliance with all applicable zoning laws,' local officials nonetheless `refused to approve the plan, and instead informed plaintiffs that there were additional requirements, not found in any zoning or other statutes, which plaintiffs had yet to meet.' [ Id., 849 F.Supp. at 709.] This is happening in many areas around the country. 
These examples poignantly illustrate the current confusion concerning when a claim becomes ripe. The current state of disarray that Federal judges and private landowners alike find themselves in can be fixed by the establishment of a set of objective criteria so that all parties will be able to easily discern when a government land use decision is final. This bill will bring that confusion to an end by clearly defining when a Federal takings claim becomes ripe for adjudication and how many final decisions are required before the claim may proceed in Federal court. 
Additionally, much confusion has existed over the second prong of Williamson County: namely, the requirement that a property owner must exhaust all compensation remedies available under State law. This prong acts to prevent Federal courts from reaching a final decision until the State court definitively rules that it will not entertain a compensation remedy. 
This problem is exemplified in Santa Fe Village Venture v. City of Albuquerque, 914 F.Supp. 478 (D.N.M. 1995). There, the local city council established a building moratorium to preclude any development on lands near a national monument site. Plaintiff had an option to purchase land within areas subject to the moratorium, but never exercised that option because of the total land use restriction. Rather, plaintiff filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court seeking just compensation from the local government for its inability to develop the property. 
The first suit was dismissed on ripeness grounds because the property owner never sought a compensation remedy in State court. In other words, exhausting State compensation procedures was necessary to make a Federal claim ripe for resolution. The property owner then filed a second action for inverse condemnation in State court. This case was also dismissed--this time for lack of standing. Plaintiff returned to Federal court raising only Federal claims but had its case dismissed again on ripeness grounds because the Federal claims were not raised in State court despite the State court's previous adjudications. These type of situations will be resolved by the bill by remedying the confusion of the State exhaustion requirement. 
As you can see in these Federal land use cases from 1983 to 1988, the red part of this, 94.4 percent, is where judges failed to reach the merits of the case--in other words, had ripeness problems--and the 5.6 percent of cases were decided on the merits, where they found that they were ripe. As you can see, the owners of property are just not being treated fairly and this is a constitutional privilege provided for in the fifth amendment of the Constitution, so this is wrong. 
Let me just note, this is a recent study prepared by the law firm of Linowes and Blocher of Silver Spring, MD, and incorporated into the Record for this bill. 
Over 80 percent of the takings cases originating in U.S. district courts between 1990 and 1997, as shown on this chart, were dismissed before the merits were ever reached due, again, to the ripeness doctrine. 
The 81 percent in red is where judges failed to reach the merits of the case because of ripeness problems, and the green is decided on the merits. In those cases where they were decided, they averaged 7 years of total litigation. So you can imagine how the rights are not being protected. 
Many of these dismissals were tantamount to the termination of the claim because the landowner lacked the adequate financial resources to form an appeal. For those landowners who could afford the high expenses of an appeal, the survey showed that more than half of the takings claims were still dismissed. 
The red is where judges failed to reach the merits of the case, again, due to ripeness problems. The green is cases, between 1990 and 1997, decided on the merits, and they averaged 9.5 years of litigation. 
Just think about that. For those landowners who could afford the high expenses of an appeal, the survey showed that more than half of the takings claims were still dismissed. Of those appellate cases that did not pass the ripeness test, 60 percent were remanded for more litigation on the merits. These results underscored the need for this legislation. 
Further adding to the problem, a Federal court may also abstain from hearing a takings case under the judicially created doctrine of `abstention.' This doctrine allows Federal judges to exercise discretion in deciding whether or not to accept cases that are properly under the Federal court's, in this case, jurisdiction. Federal courts are reluctant naturally to adjudicate State political and judicial controversies, so a Federal court will usually abstain anytime that a claim presents a Federal question that would not need to be resolved if an underlying challenged State action of an unsettled State law issue were determined. 
This is underscored by the Supreme Court case of Railroad Commission of Texas v. Pullman Co., 312 U.S. 496 (1941). Federal courts also abstain from hearing cases which touch on sensitive State regulatory issues which are best left to the state courts. Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U.S. 315 (1943), is an example of this situation. 
Additionally, federal judges often use the abstention doctrines to refer takings cases back to state courts before reaching the merits of the Fifth Amendment claims. This bill remedies the current abuse of abstention by requiring that Federal courts adjudicate the merits of an aggrieved property owner's claims where those claims are solely based on federal law. On the contrary, if a property owner also raises claims involving state constitutional, statutory or common law claims pendent to the federal claims, then the property owner may not use this bill and the federal court may properly abstain in that type of situation. 
I have to emphasize that control over land use lies and will remain in the hands of local entities. Private property owners must submit a land use proposal to the local agency for approval which, for many applicants, is the beginning of a negotiation process regarding the permitted land uses. This process, however, can take years for property owners who are left in regulatory limbo due to the local entities' failure to make a final decision as to what land use is permitted. Consequently, property owners are not able to use or develop their land and are effectively denied their fifth amendment rights. 
While this result could be construed as a fifth amendment taking, I must point out that the applicant is, for all practical purposes, unable to file a claim in Federal court to enforce these constitutional guarantees because local land use authorities do not want to be sued in Federal court and can abuse the system by purposely withholding a final agency decision. To further frustrate the problem, the federal court decisions interpreting the Supreme Court's `ripeness' definition are conflicting and confusing, providing little guidance to property owners as to when a case is `ripe' for federal adjudication. 
Moreover, Federal judges are often reluctant to get involved in land use issues. Instead, they usually dismiss takings cases back to state court based on the abstention doctrines or the lack of ripeness. Unfortunately, the overwhelming majority of property owners do not have the time and money necessary to pursue their case through the state court and then re-file it in Federal court. The extensive use of the abstention doctrines by the Federal courts to avoid land use cases, even ones involving only a Federal claim, has created a blockade denying aggrieved land owners access to the Federal court system. 
This problem is exemplified by the situation presented in Suitum v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, 80 F.3d 359 (9th Cir. 1996), vacated and remanded, 117 S.Ct. 1659 (1997). Bernadine Suitum, a retiree, was barred from building on her land by a regional planning agency. For seven years, the Federal courts steadfastly refused to consider whether a taking of her property by the government had occurred until the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in an unanimous decision that she will have the right to argue her case in Federal court. This elderly woman's plight has resulted in years of expensive litigation just to have the opportunity to present the merits of her case to a Federal judge. Unfortunately, this situation is far from rare for many takings claimants. 
Another procedural tool that has been used to construct a barrier to property owners seeking remedies in Federal court has been the use of the doctrines of res judicata and collateral estoppel by Federal judges. Res judicata, also known as claim preclusion, acts as a bar to further claims brought by a party on the same claim where a final judgment on the merits has already been reached. Claim preclusion prevents parties from relitigating claims that were already raised or could have been raised in an earlier lawsuit. Similarly, collateral estoppel, also known as issue preclusion, prevents a plaintiff from relitigating issues that were already decided by a state court. 
Consequently, a Federal court could preclude a property owner from bringing an otherwise ripe claim in Federal court because a final determination had already been reached in a State court proceeding. That is, a strict adherence to the Williamson County prongs could prove tantamount to the nails in the coffin box of the property owner's ripe takings claim. Nevertheless, by removing the state exhaustion requirement from the ripeness landscape, this bill effectively solves all res judicata and collateral estoppel problems. 
Interestingly, claimants alleging violations of other fundamental rights do not encounter these same procedural barriers when attempting to bring meritorious actions in Federal court. In those situations, ripeness, abstention, and res judicata are often inapplicable. 
This places fifth amendment claimants in an inferior position to their first amendment counterparts. But, the Supreme Court has expressly stated that the fifth amendment is `as much a part of the Bill of Rights as the first amendment or the fourth amendment. 
Look what the Court said in Dolan v. City of Tigard:  
We see no reason why the takings clause of the fifth amendment, as much a part of the Bill of Rights as the first amendment or fourth amendment, should be relegated to the status of a poor relation . . . 
The Court, I hope, means what it says. 
In any event, I certainly concur. The rights of the fifth amendment should not be inferior to the rights of the first amendment or to any other fundamental guarantee contained in the Bill of Rights. 
This bill seeks to address these procedural blockades and offer property owners more certainty as to the Federal adjudicatory process governing takings claims. More specifically, the bill accomplishes this by defining when a final agency decision takes place and prohibiting Federal judges from invoking the abstention doctrine to avoid cases that involve only fifth amendment takings claims.  
In other words, this bill does not impugn or prevail upon any State rights. It only is triggered when we have fifth amendment constitutional rights invoked. 
Additionally, S. 2271 maintains the traditional interpretations of the abstention doctrine which keep the federal courts free from being thrust into controversies surrounding state and local issues by limiting its scope only to actions involving federal claims. As the proposed language indicates, usage of this Act by a claimant is optional. 
That is, the bill allows a claimant the opportunity to bring a claim in Federal court if she so chooses, but does not mandate such an avenue of jurisdiction. S. 2271 simply allows every citizen her right to bring a Federal takings claim into Federal court to be decided on the merits. It is important to note that if a claimant brings a takings claim that is joined to other State claims, a Federal court would be able to abstain: for example, a takings claim accompanied by a State constitutional claim, a claim of ultra vires conduct, or abuse of discretion would not be able to reach the merits in Federal court without a State court first deciding the merits of the State claims. 
Let me refute the critics and assert that S. 2271 accomplishes its goals in a manner that will not crowd the Federal dockets. Under the provisions of this bill, a claimant is required to obtain as few as three and as many as five decisions by local entities before that claimant's claim will be ripe for review by a federal court. Thus, the claimant must spend adequate time pleading her case before the local authorities and must obtain the necessary denials from them; until she satisfies these prerequisites, her claim will be barred from the Federal courts. 
Some have argued that the second prong of Williamson County mandates as a matter of constitutional law that property owners exhaust State compensation remedies before seeking federal court redress. This conclusion is buttressed by their claim that a taking does not occur on a State or local level until the State or locality has had the opportunity to afford compensation to the property owner. 
I disagree with both these contentions. First, Williamson County was decided before the remedy for a Federal taking was clarified. It is, indeed, outdated. When Williamson County was decided in 1985, the Court viewed the remedy for takings to be invalidation of the offending statute or rule. In other words, compensation was not considered the remedy for a taking under the U.S. Constitution. That changed in 1987, with First English Evangelical Lutheran Church of Glendale v. County of Los Angeles, 482 U.S. 304 (1987), where the Supreme Court finally held that the Federal remedy for a taking is compensation. Now that this Federal remedy has been clarified, there is no reason to compel a citizen to litigate State court remedies in State court first. 
Second, and consequently, the second prong of Williamson County is now merely prudential in nature. This conclusion is buttressed by the Supreme Court's most recent takings and ripeness decision, where the Court described Williamson County's requirements as `two independent prudential hurdles * * *.' Suitum v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, the 1997 case I cited before, makes that case, 117 S. Ct. 1659, 1666 (1997). In other words, the requirement of exhaustion of State or local compensation procedures is a court-created barrier which Congress may alter. Simply put, initial State court litigation is not compelled by the Constitution. 
Third, the Williamson County second prong is only dicta, and, therefore, not binding authority. The main issue in Williamson County concerned the first element of ripeness, that is, whether the land use agency rendered a `final decision.' The ensuing discussion on compensation ripeness was neither essential nor necessary to support the decision. Thus, it was mere dicta. 
Fourth, the text of the Takings Clause does not require that property owners must exhaust State or local compensation procedures. The drafters and ratifiers of the fifth and fourteenth amendments to the Federal Constitution did not intend such a result: The text of the takings clause states: `[N]or shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.' Those are words right out of our beloved constitution. 
Thus, the fifth amendment clearly creates a Federal remedy for a taking. There is no basis to believe that the drafters and ratifiers intended State court litigation as a prerequisite to vindicate that Federal remedy. State court litigation puts the cart before the horse: Compensation is simply a computation of the amount owed for a taking. It makes no sense to sue in State court first, until liability for the Federal taking has been determined. 
Fifth, preclusion doctrines, as mentioned above, bar any Federal takings suit in Federal court if a plaintiff must sue in State court first. A property owner in this circumstance would never get to Federal court to vindicate the property owner's rights. It is doubtful that this was the intent of the drafters and ratifiers who promulgated and adopted Federal rights amendments and established the Federal forums to protect them. Yet being barred from the Federal courthouse is exactly what happened in Dodd v. Hood River, in 1998, 136 F.3d 1219 (9th Cir. 1998). That is a ninth circuit court case. 
The minority views accompanying H.R. 1534, the bill voted out of the Judiciary Committee, completely misstates the Dodd case. Dodd stands for the reverse of what the minority views represent. The minority claims that, one, `most federal appeals courts allow claimants to `reserve' federal constitutional claims so that the federal courts may address those claims once the state court litigation has ended.' This is not true. This can be seen from what happened in the various Dodd cases. 
After being allowed to reserve their Federal takings claim in Dodd IV [(59 F. 3d at 862)], the Dodds were denied the right in Dodd V to raise it in Federal court under the `issue preclusion' doctrine of collateral estoppel. [See Dodd V, 136 F.3d at 1227 (9th Cir. 1998).] 
The same thing happened to a takings claimant in Wilkinson v. Pitkin County Bd. of County Comm'rs, a tenth circuit case in 1998, where the court concluded that `the Williamson ripeness requirement is insufficient to preclude application of res judicata and collateral estoppel principles in this case.' Moreover, in a candid footnote, the court acknowledged:  
We do note our concern that Williamson's ripeness requirement may, in actuality, almost always result in preclusion of federal claims, regardless of whether a reservation is permitted. It is difficult to reconcile the ripeness requirement of Williamson with the laws of res judicata and collateral estoppel. 
Contrary to the minority's misrepresentation of the law, Dodd and Wilkinson confirm that, without the referenced remedial legislation, citizens bringing fifth amendment takings claims in Federal court are in a Catch-22 situation. They must first go to state court, but when they do, they are barred from ever litigating their claim in Federal court. Meanwhile, municipal defendants in such cases are free to seek removal of the case from State to Federal court. This removal procedure was upheld recently by the Supreme Court in City of Chicago v. International College of Surgeons. 
I must observe that other constitutional rights hinge on State or local issues, but do not require initial State litigation. Many provisions in the Bill of Rights also hinge on the resolution of issues concerning State or local law. There are no similar ripeness barriers requiring citizens to go to State court first to address the constitutionality of Government actions that infringe upon the speech, religion, or privacy rights protected in the Constitution. 
Furthermore, the Supreme Court in Loretto v. Teleprompter Manhattan CATV Corp., 458 U.S. 419, 437, n. 15 (1982), held that takings could occur regardless of whether the property has increased in value. In this case the Court found a taking where cable was laid pursuant to a New York statute, which undoubtedly increased the value of the building. The Supreme Court found a taking and remanded the compensation issue to the lower court. 
I believe that this holding is contrary to the position of the bill's critics that takings analysis require, as a matter of law, that compensation be determined before a governmental action can be considered an unconstitutional taking. Under Loretto, a court could find that there has been a taking--a significant interference with property rights--yet award no compensation. It is still considered an unconstitutional taking. Consequently, the compensation requirement of the Takings Clause is merely a remedy that may or may not be awarded in a state or federal court, depending on the fairness of the situation. 
Buttressing this conclusion is the recent Supreme Court decision in Phillips v. Washington Legal Foundation, No. 96-1578 (June 15, 1998). In Phillips, the Court held that interest accruing from interest bearing lawyers trust accounts, that is, Interest On Lawyers Trust Accounts, or IOLTAs, as they call it, that that is property within the meaning of the fifth amendment. Although the Court left open whether the adequacy of compensation must be determined before a constitutional taking is considered to occur, [Phillips slip op. at 7, n.4], it is interesting to note that as a practical matter the Court first determined whether there was a property interest and, thereafter, remanded the case to determine whether there was a taking, and if so, the amount of just compensation to be paid for such taking. 
The Court in effect applied a three-part test: (1) whether a property interest exists; (2) whether the property interest has been significantly interfered with; and (3) if a property interest has been taken, the determination of just compensation. The Committee believes that this approach belies the argument that a federal court cannot hear takings claims before a state determines compensation. Indeed, this was the position of the dissent, who argued that the issue of compensation is not separate and distinct from the issue of disposition and use of property. [Phillips, slip op. at 4 (Souter, J., dissenting).] 
Furthermore, in Eastern Enterprises v. Apfel, No. 97-42 (U.S. June 25, 1998), decided on the next to last day of the 1997-1998 Supreme Court term, the Court faced the issue of whether the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act--called the `Coal Act'--which established a mechanism to fund health care for retirees, could be applied retroactively to a company that no longer mined coal and had withdrawn from the Coal Act funding scheme pursuant to terms of a prior negotiated agreement. 
Four Justices, Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices O'Connor, Scalia, and Thomas, held that the application of the Coal Act violated the Takings Clause of the fifth amendment. [Eastern Enterprises, slip op. at 1-37 (Plurality opinion of O'Connor, Rehnquist, Scalia, and Thomas, J.J.)]. One Justice, Justice Kennedy, held in concurring opinion that retroactive application of the Act violated the Due Process Clause. [Eastern Enterprises, slip op. at 1-7 (Kennedy, J., concurring and dissenting in part)]. 
In reaching its conclusion, the plurality grappled with the ripeness issue of whether a litigant, such as the petitioner in this case, is barred from seeking equitable relief in federal district courts. The Tucker Act confers exclusive jurisdiction on the Court of Federal Claims to hear claims for compensation under the Takings Clause of the fifth amendment, and it was argued, much like critics of this bill, that a claim for equitable or other relief under the Takings Clause is hypothetical until compensation is first determined by a court. The Supreme Court noted that the Court of Appeals, the various courts of appeals, were divided on the issue and that the Supreme Court's precedents were seemingly contradictory. [Eastern Enterprises, slip op. at 19 (plurality opinion of O'Connor, J.)]. 
For instance, the Supreme Court in First Evangelical Lutheran Church of Glendale v. County of Los Angeles, 482 U.S. 304, 314 (1987), observed that `the fifth amendment does not prohibit the taking of private property, but instead places a condition [just compensation] on the exercise of that power.' Yet in Duke Power Company v. Carolina Environmental Study Group, Inc., 438 U.S. 59, 70 n. 15 (1978), the Supreme Court held that a district court may exercise jurisdiction over declaratory judgment actions pursuant to a Takings Clause claim, even when no attempt to seek compensatory relief has been made in the Court of Federal Claims. 
Significantly, the Eastern Enterprises plurality noted that the Supreme Court had granted equitable relief without discussing the applicability of the Tucker Act, and, thus, decided the issue sub silento that an unconstitutional taking could occur without a determination of compensation. [Eastern Enterprises, slip op. at 19-20 (plurality opinion of O'Connor, J.), citing Babbitt v. Youpee, 519 U.S. 234, 243-245 (1997); Concrete Pipe & Products of Cal. v. Construction Laborers Pension Trust for Southern Cal., 508 U.S. 602, 641-647 (1993); Hodel v. Irving, 481 U.S. 704, 716-718 (1987)]. 
Based on the foregoing, I believe that a federal court may decide takings issues before compensation is ascertained. Indeed, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in In re Chateaugay Corp., 53 F. 3d 478, 492 (2d Cir. 1995), characterized the contrary language in First Evangelical Lutheran Church, mentioned above, as obiter dicta. 
Finally, I want to note that federal courts have more than adequate experience in the appraisal of value as the many takings and inverse condemnation claims heard by these courts demonstrate. Consequently, federal courts, as well as state courts, are appropriate forums to determine compensation. Indeed, this was the intent of the framers and ratifiers of the fifth and fourteenth Amendments. 
In conclusion, let me point out that James Madison, in his celebrated Essay on Property, wrote that the very purpose of government is to protect private property. 
Madison's own words in Essay on Property:  
Government is instituted to protect property of every sort . . . this being the end of government. That alone is a just government, which impartially secures to every man whatever is his own. 
Let me also point out the admonition of John Adams, who, in his Defense of the Constitutions of Government, cautions that: 
The moment the idea is admitted into a society that property is not as sacred as the laws of God, and there is not force of law and public justice to protect it, anarchy and tyranny commence. 
That is John Adams' Defense of the Constitutions of Government. 
Mr. President, let us heed the advice and warnings of the wise Founders of this Republic. It is the duty of Congress to assure that the constitutional rights of all Americans are protected. This is especially true when, as here, the courts fail to do their job of safeguarding constitutional rights. In such a situation, Congress must step to the plate. 
With passage of this bill, Congress will have hit a home run. The right to own and possess property will have been vindicated. Fairness to property owners will have been guaranteed by resolving the egregious delays and costs associated with the ripeness issue. Property owners will have been afforded fair access to the federal courts to vindicate their constitutional rights. Justice will no longer have been delayed nor denied. 
I urge my colleagues to support this worthwhile measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator will yield, I will clarify. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As a matter of personal privilege, since the Senator raises my mayor, if the Senator will yield for a question, is the Senator aware in S. 2271 we have solved all those problems? The original bill did not participate, in the eyes of some of the mayors, but S. 2271, is the Senator aware, affects only Federal claims being brought before Federal court; that State and local claims, claims based on State or local law, are not affected by S. 2271, which is fairly contrary to what the distinguished Senator has been saying here? 
The fact that the constitutional claims can arise from the actions of local governments does not make them any less a Federal claim, any more than a violation of first amendment rights are Federal claims, whether it is a Federal or local official doing the violating. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I never cease to be shocked at some of the arguments made around here. A gas station in a 30-home residence area is going to rise to the dignity of what we are talking about here--give me a break. Houses of prostitution near places of worship--give me a break. Nobody is arguing about things like that. The State and local areas certainly have total control over those. 
I am well aware this bill is opposed by the Department of Justice, many localities, some interstate governmental associations, and certain environmental groups. Almost knee-jerked in many respects. I believe their concerns that the bill would hinder local prerogatives and significantly increase the amount of Federal litigation are not only highly overstated but highly misunderstood by them. The bill is carefully drafted to ensure that aggrieved property owners must seek solutions on the local or State level before filing a Federal claim. It sets a limit on how many procedures localities may impose. 
I don't consider just a few months reasonable procedure. The average case is taking 9 1/2 years. If you are some poor little property owner, or even a developer, if you want to use some of the language that has been thrown around here and you have a just reason to bring up a takings claim because the State or local or Federal Government has taken your property, you have to have pretty deep pockets to be able to litigate for 9 1/2 years. The reason you do is some of these localities are acting improperly and using the law to allow these cases to never ripen so that they can be heard. 
I personally believe that the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island would change his mind if he just looked at the case and realized we are talking about true Federal issues here that should be in Federal court and should be there promptly, not after years of delay by local municipalities and/or other agencies, 
throwing up logjam after logjam to stop reasonable people from getting reasonable results under the circumstances. This bill will do that. 
Now, when we originally wrote this bill, when it came from the House, it had provisions in there that caused some angst among people who are truly thoughtful in this area. So we, being truly thoughtful, made changes that aren't just technical, but changes that basically, I thought, solved every problem being raised on the floor today. It is extremely difficult. Let me just say that. 
Moreover, I seriously doubt that there will be a rush of new litigation flooding Federal courts. This was the conclusion of none other than the Congressional Budget Office contained in the cost estimate section of the committee report accompanying H.R. 1534. Although CBO was unable to ascertain the increase in costs if large claims were allowed to proceed in Federal courts, it did note, after consulting legal experts, that `only a small proportion [of State cases] would be tried in Federal Court as the result of this H.R. 1534. . . .' 
It is extremely difficult to prove a takings claim, and this bill does not in any way redefine what constitutes a taking. These claims are also very expensive to bring. Like I say, the average, over the last 10 years, has been 9 1/2 years to bring even the most simple claim to fruition or conclusion. That is not what the Founding Fathers thought when they did the fifth amendment allowing and putting in the takings provision. These claims are expensive to bring. Paradoxically, localities' defense of Federal actions may be lessened by the bill, because localities already must litigate property rights claims on Federal ripeness grounds, which take years to resolve. It costs localities more money than they should have to pay. 
Let me restate this. By providing certainty on the ripeness issue, the bill may very well reduce litigation costs to localities. Substantive takings claims, unless they are likely to prevail on the merits, are simply too hard to prove and too expensive to bring in Federal court. And the issue of ripeness will have been removed by the bill from the already-crowded court dockets. 
Madam President, it is interesting to note that once many State officials, localities, and State and trade organizations really examine the measure, they rapidly become supporters of the bill. Those supporting the bill or increased vigilance in the property rights arena include the Governors of Tennessee, Wisconsin, Virginia, New Mexico, North Dakota, and South Carolina. They also include the American Legislative Exchange Council, which represents over 3,000 State legislatures, and trade groups such as America's Community Bankers, the National Mortgage Association of America, the National Association of Home Builders, the National Association of Realtors, and the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the organ of small business in this country. They are sick and tired of small businesses being taken advantage of by some of these people in some of these local areas and State areas, and even the Federal areas, in taking their property without just compensation. Then they have to go 9 1/2 years to vindicate their claims. By the time they get there, the property is not worth anything anyway, or the interest has been consumed by attorney's fees. 
People who support this bill also include agricultural interests, such as the American Farm Bureau, the American Forest and Paper Association, the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, the National Grange Association, et cetera, et cetera. 
Just as important, let me point out that 133 House sponsors of the House-passed bill--and that is a bill different from this one, and that bill is subject to some of these criticisms--we have reformed that. The 133 House sponsors of the House-passed bill were former State and local officeholders. They are not stupid. They feel just as deeply about State and local office concerns as anybody on this floor. 
I find it rather amusing that the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island is so solicitous of State and local areas, having argued on the other side on almost every other issue that has come before the Senate. Let's stop and think about it. I don't believe that these 133 former State and local officeholders would have voted for the bill if it conflicted with local sovereignty. The fact is that it does not conflict with local sovereignty. The fact is that it gives plenty of reasons and plenty of avenues for the local and State and other municipalities to solve these problems. 
We have bent over backwards trying to accommodate those expressing concern about the bill which passed out of the Senate Judiciary Committee. We met with city mayors, representatives of local governmental organizations, attorneys general, and religious groups, to name a few. Some of these have signed these recent letters. I am not sure they understand any of these issues, let alone how much we have made in changes to this bill. 
We held group meetings and asked for suggestions and changes to the bill, which would alleviate opposition and 
concerns. I thank Senators Abraham, Ashcroft, DeWine, Specter, Thompson, and respective staffs, for negotiating and drafting changes to the bill designed to meet the concerns of particularly certain localities. These changes alleviate municipalities' concerns that the bill would become a vehicle for frivolous and novel suits. They remove any incentive the bill may have for property owners to file specious suits against localities. They foster negotiations to resolve problems, and these changes recognize the right of the States and localities to abate nuisances without having to pay compensation. 
First of all, we created a new section dealing with the award of attorney's fees. In this section, we amended section 1988(b) of title 28 of the U.S. Code, which allows a court to award litigation costs and attorney's fees to the prevailing party in civil rights actions. This change allows a district court to hold the party seeking redress liable for reasonable attorney's fees and costs if the takings claim is not substantially justified. This section was created to address the localities' concerns that they would have to defend expensive, frivolous cases in Federal Court, wasting taxpayers' money. This section eliminates those concerns. 
I think that the mayor of Salt Lake might have had a different opinion--or other mayors that the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island has cited, or the other Governors that the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island has cited. I have reason to believe that they haven't seen this current substitute that we have here, or they would change, like so many others are changing. 
The problem is that you get these old bills out--and, yes, there were problems with the old bills, but that is what the legislative process is designed to correct. That is what we are doing here.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am a little bit agitated right now, and I want to finish some of these thoughts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will just say that the distinguished Senator very seldom does. 
Another amendment to the bill requires a party seeking redress for a taking of real property to give any potential defendant written notice 60 days prior to a commencement of action in district court. This was added to address the localities' concerns that they will have insufficient time to negotiate with parties seeking redress before a Federal action was filed. This delay, I might add, acts as an inducement to seek compromise. 
In addition, we added a nuisance provision to the purpose section of the bill that confirms State power to prevent land uses that are nuisances. I suspect that a house of prostitution would be a nuisance alongside a church or some other place. Perhaps there are many in this body that might agree with me that it is a nuisance, period. Under existing law, States have authority to abate nuisances and zone for commercial or residential uses. The Supreme Court, in Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council, held that such State actions require no compensation to affected landowners. 
This change in the bill thus makes clear that State prerogatives are not altered. The bill, in any event, changes no substantive law and merely allows property owners fair access to the Federal courts after having gone through a variety of procedures in the State courts. And reasonable procedures at that, but not after 9 1/2 years of being jerked around by some of the State courts, 
and Federal courts, by the way, because the Federal courts have been jerking them around, too, refusing to hear some of these cases on the doctrine of rightness, and the other doctrines that I have mentioned. 
All this belies the bizarre and false allegations, such as the one contained in the Minority Views of the H.R. 1534 Committee Report, that if the bill passes localities may not prohibit gas stations in residential areas unless compensation is paid. 
Give me a break. 
Finally, to narrow the scope of the ripeness provision, we limited the term `property owner' to include only `owners of real property.' This change greatly narrows the procedural effects of this bill because the provisions of the bill that expedite access to the federal courts now will only encompass real property and, thus, will not apply to suits involving personal or intellectual property. 
So we have solved that problem, which was a legitimate question, although really we ought to be protecting all property since this is a fundamental right of the fifth amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America, one that is ignored most of the time in our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time does the Senator from Utah have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say this, that we have held hearings through the years on similar bills, and we have held hearings on the underlying bill. We made four changes, which I outlined in my last remarks. So the hearings were held and the changes were made to accommodate some of the concerns of those who have been critical of this bill. So this is not without hearings, and it is not without an understanding. 
I yield 10 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 5 minutes to the distinguished Senator from South Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Idaho. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield for 1 second? Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that after the Senator's remarks, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 2 minutes to the Senator from Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time do I have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me use part of that. 
Let me say what the five truths of the bill are. 
This bill does not affect State or localities or local rights, and it only applies to real property. 
No. 2, it does nothing to stop localities from zoning or passing or enforcing environmental measures. 
No. 3, it does not increase Federal litigation against localities, because the bill does not create new law. And takings 
cases are expensive to bring. The Congressional Budget Office agrees with that. 
No. 4, what the bill does is it grants property owners their day in court, which is denied in many cases by local court procedures or by local procedures, which at times are like the Minotaur's Labyrinth. 
No. 5, currently property owners must litigate on average 9 1/2 years before they can get a Federal court to reach a decision on the merits. No other constitutional right is treated that way. 
In fact, in Dolan v. City of Tigard, the Supreme Court said, `We see no reason why the takings clause of the fifth amendment, as much of a part of the Bill of Rights as the first amendment, or fourth amendment should be delegated to the status of a poor relation.' 
We are trying to stop that. This bill will do it. 
We have had hearings on it time after time over the years. We have added on this substitute four additional matters, mainly to help people who have raised concerns. 
I hope our colleagues will support us on this motion to proceed. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have introduced the National Criminal History Access and Child Protection Act of 1998. I am pleased to have been joined by the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Leahy, as well as by Senator DeWine and the distinguished Minority Leader, Senator Daschle, in introducing this legislation, which also has the support of the Administration. 
This important legislation addresses a critical issue--the access to criminal history records for legitimate purposes other than use within the criminal justice system. These records are frequently used today for a wide variety of important purposes, such as employment background checks for child care workers, health care workers, elder care workers, teachers, school bus drivers, security guards, and bar applicants. 
Few disagree with the use of criminal history records to ensure that those in important positions of trust with our children, elderly, and persons with disabilities do not have criminal backgrounds making such trust inappropriate or even dangerous. Yet, currently, policies and procedures on disseminating these records vary widely from state to state. 
This legislation addresses this issue, by enacting what has come to be known as the Triple I (III) Compact. This proposed interstate and federal-state compact is supported by the Administration, the FBI, the Criminal Justice Information Advisory Policy Board, and all state criminal history repositories. It would establish `rules of the road' for the interstate sharing of criminal history records for non-criminal history purposes, such as background checks for employees who work with children or who are in otherwise sensitive jobs. The compact provides for state-to-state and federal-to-state sharing of records, through the Interstate Identification Index (III) and the National Fingerprint File (NFF). 
Under the compact, requests for criminal history checks for non-criminal justice purposes would be made between state records repositories and between the state repositories and the FBI, which maintains the III and NFF systems. Interstate dissemination policy would be governed by the policy of the requesting state, but intrastate dissemination and use of records would still be governed by the law of the state which owns the record. The primacy of use of records for criminal justice purposes would be maintained, as would direct access to records already permitted under current law. Additionally, record checks would have to be fingerprint supported to ensure accuracy, and the privacy of records would be protected. The compact would be administered and policed by a council comprised of state and federal officials. 
This legislation also includes improvements to the National Child Protection Act, which Congress enacted in 1993 to encourage the use of criminal history records to screen volunteers who work with our children, elderly, and persons with disabilities. This provision amends the NCPA to permit child care, elder care, and volunteer organizations, known as `qualified entities,' to request background checks through state agencies in the absence of state laws implementing the NCPA. The 1993 NCPA and its 1994 amendments extending its coverage to elder care and disabled care workers conditioned part of state's Byrne grant funding on the establishment of procedures for records checks for child care and elder care workers and volunteers, but many states have not done so. Qualified entities are not permitted to request a background check from states absent state establishment of procedures. This provision is a modest change to current law, and permits qualified entities to request the background check, but does not override any state laws regarding use or dissemination of records. The provision is based on H.R. 2488, and is supported by volunteer groups, including the Boy Scouts and the Boys and Girls Clubs. This provision recently passed the House of Representatives as an amendment to other legislation. 
Mr. President, this legislation is a modest but important step in protecting the most vulnerable in our society from those who would abuse unique access to prey on them. I appreciate the support of my cosponsors for this legislation, and urge its approval by the Senate.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield so I can put us in morning business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980708</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for allowing me to make my remarks ahead of his. It is very accommodative and I appreciate it. 
Mr. President, today we will cast one of the most important votes of the 105th Congress. Today, we vote to enhance the power of the individual taxpayer and to reduce the opportunity for abuse by an arm of the federal government. We will vote on the conference report to H.R. 2676, the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998. This legislation is a tremendous leap forward in enhancing the credibility and effectiveness of the IRS. 
But Mr. President, this bill is about more than just changing the way one federal agency works. This bill is about reflecting American values and priorities; it is about remembering who the federal government is here to serve and what it is here to do. 
Of all the powers bestowed upon a government, the power of taxation is the one most open to abuse. As the agency responsible for implementing and enforcing the tax laws that we here in Congress pass, no other agency touches the lives of American citizens more completely than the IRS. 
I believe that Americans understand and appreciate that they have to pay taxes. Without their tax dollars, there would be no national defense; no Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid; no environmental protections; no assistance for education or job training; no national parks, food inspection, or funds for highways and bridges. 
But, everywhere I go in Utah, I hear from my constituents about their frustrations. My office receives numerous letters each month detailing taxpayer interactions with the IRS. It seems that everyone has had, or knows someone who has had, a bad experience with the IRS. This adds to the impression of the IRS as an unfeeling, impersonal machine that will run roughshod over anyone in its way. 
I, myself, have seen abuses at the hands of the IRS. One of the reasons I ran for the U.S. Senate over twenty years ago was because of the abuses I saw. As an attorney, I had occasion to represent taxpayers against the IRS. The treatment these taxpayers received appalled me--and that was twenty years ago. The stories have not changed all that much over the years; in fact, they seem to be occurring more and more frequently. 
The stories range from small annoyances such as unanswered phones or long periods of time spent on hold to shocking abuses such as unwarranted seizures of assets or criminal investigations being based on false information for the purpose of personal revenge. It is small wonder that the taxpayers are scared and frustrated. These stories illustrate a disturbing trend. They are dramatic reminders of the failure of Congress to exercise adequate oversight over a powerful federal agency. 
I have been here long enough to know that we are never going to be able to achieve a system where people do not get frustrated about paying their taxes--both the process of paying taxes and the amounts. Let's face it: paying taxes is not something we will ever enjoy doing. 
We must, however, achieve a system of collection that is efficient, fair, and, above all, honest. While not perfect, the conference report before us today moves us a long way toward a better system. 
During our oversight hearings and through letters to my office, I have heard several horror stories from taxpayers, innocent spouses, IRS employees, and those who have been the subjects of criminal raids and investigations. While these are the minority of the cases dealt with by the IRS, they still illustrate the nature of the abuses occurring. 
We are not talking about appropriate enforcement of the law. We are talking about heavy-handed abuses of enforcement powers. At best, such tactics are counterproductive; at worst, it is reprehensible behavior by big government. It must stop. 
The conference report before us is a comprehensive approach to reforming the IRS. No one provision can stand alone as the silver bullet that brought down the bear. Taken as a whole, however, this legislation provides a strong foundation for a new IRS by changing the way the IRS operates and interacts with individual taxpayers. 
The bill before us today gives the IRS Commissioner great flexibility to carry out a fundamental reorganization of the agency. But, it also places the IRS under an independent, mostly private sector board to oversee the big picture of operations at the agency. Through this board, the American taxpayer will now have a focused advocate examining the operations of the IRS and input into the way the agency runs. These are two very important elements to creating a new culture at the IRS: responsible leadership and accountability. 
I commend the new Commissioner for the steps he has taken so far to rectify these problems at the IRS, and I encourage him to keep going. And, I hope he will not feel constrained by `business as usual' attitudes among those who have an interest in maintaining the current methods. I hope the new Commissioner will shake the dead wood out of the trees. 
But, Mr. Rossotti needs to know that Congress will hold him and the agency accountable. And, our expectations--and the expectations of the American people--are not hard to fathom. 
We do not expect tax delinquents or cheats to go undetected or unpenalized. But, we do expect the IRS to enforce our tax laws appropriately. We expect the IRS to assist taxpayers to understand and comply with complicated laws and regulations. We expect taxpayers to be treated courteously. We expect taxpayers' questions to be answered promptly and their returns processes efficiently. And, we expect any penalties to fit the crime. 
Today, we will vote on a bill that takes a leap forward in eradicating a culture that has allowed corruption and abuse to occur over and over again and to taint the efforts of honorable IRS employees. There has been a lot of talk about changing the IRS into a service-oriented agency, and the bill before us goes a long way towards doing just that. We cannot stop there, however. 
While customer service is an important part of the equation, we must go further and address taxpayer rights. The conference report removes taxpayers from the reach of IRS excesses by instituting over 70 new rights and protections. The way the taxpayer deals with the IRS, individual IRS employees, and the courts will be changed. 
The conference report shifts the burden of proof in selected situations off of the taxpayer and onto the IRS. It also ensures that compromise is more accessible to taxpayers by making offers-in-compromise and installment agreements easier to achieve and the terms of these agreements more flexible. 
The conference report also contains some much-needed assistance for innocent spouses. The understatement thresholds are lowered and it is now easier for taxpayers to receive innocent spouse protections. In addition, limited proportional liability will now be available to a spouse who is legally separated and living apart for at least one year from the person with whom a taxpayer originally filed a joint return. 
Interest and penalty accrual will be suspended after a year in some cases when the IRS fails to notify a taxpayer of a liability for additional taxes within 18 months of filing a tax return. This period will be shortened to within one year of filing the tax return after the year 2004. 
The conference report also makes significant changes to the Taxpayer Advocate's Office to ensure that it will be an empowered and independent voice for the taxpayers. 
A long list of procedural due process safeguards are also provided in reaction to IRS collection abuses. These include a 30-day period to appeal before liens and levies are put into place, early referral to a strengthened and more independent appeals division, and implementation of fair debt collection practices. 
The conference report increases congressional accountability for the performance of the IRS through provisions such as streamlined congressional oversight and an independent voice for the IRS in the tax-writing process. 
This legislation also contains legislative incentives for tax law simplification by requiring a tax complexity analysis for new legislation. 
In this vein, the conference report goes one step further and simplifies one of the most embarrassingly complex computations for today's taxpayers by retroactively reducing the holding period to qualify for the preferential capital gains tax rate from 18 months to 12 months. This provision not only simplifies the process, it also reduces capital gains taxes and encourages further investment. 
The legislation before us today will fundamentally change how the IRS works. It is a necessary and bold set of initiatives. But, we cannot just declare victory and bask in the glow of a job well done. We must remember how we got to this point in the first place. 
The IRS was not born evil, and it is not an inherently bad organization. Rather, it has suffered from decades of neglect and inadequate oversight. Once we have set the agency on the road to recovery and given it the tools it needs to move forward, we must continue to guide it and ensure that the agency continues down the right road. Passage of this bill does not mean we can pat ourselves on the back and tell ourselves what a great job we did. 
We must continue to exercise our oversight responsibility. We must have continued hearings, reviews, and cooperation. We must remain vigilant in our search for areas where further reform is needed and ways to simplify the tax code. Left alone, any entity with power and authority will lose its way. Without continued oversight and cooperation, we will soon see this debate repeated on the Senate floor. 
This legislation can be summed up in one word--accountability. For too long, the IRS and its employees have operated in an environment with little or no accountability. This bill changes all that. The legislation before us makes individual IRS employees accountable for their actions. It makes management more accountable for the treatment given taxpayers and other employees. Finally, it makes the agency as a whole more accountable to the Congress and the American taxpayer. 
This debate has focused largely on the negative--and there is plenty of negative to focus on. But, we must also put these abuses and misdeeds in perspective. I believe that they are the exception and not the rule. Just as a vast majority of the taxpayers are honestly trying to comply with the tax code, the vast majority of IRS employees are honest and hard working individuals doing their best in a very difficult and unpopular job. 
Yes, abuses do occur, and we must reform the system to prevent improper activities. At the same time, we must make sure that we acknowledge those employees who are doing their jobs with competence and integrity. I have to look only as far as my own state of Utah to find numerous examples of this type of employee. 
I'd like to take a moment to recognize the exemplary work of several IRS employees in the Ogden, Utah, office of the IRS. I daresay that my colleagues could find IRS personnel in their states who share this dedication to service. 
Milt Flinders has worked with the IRS for 26 years, 13 of them as a manager. He currently has 20 IRS employees working under his supervision. Mr. Flinders has great management skills, and has a well-known reputation for being fair both to IRS employees and to 
the taxpayers with whom he comes in contact. 
Avon Wales has worked with the IRS for 20 years. She currently works as an office collection representative/revenue officer aide. Ms. Wales is a very conscientious employee who makes sure she knows the relevant rules and procedures regarding each case she works on. She treats taxpayers with kindness and patience, often putting in hours at a time with an individual taxpayer who is confused about the rules or needs additional assistance. 
Susan Vail, a revenue officer, has worked with the IRS for 31 years. She makes sure she stays current with the complex laws and procedures surrounding the collection of taxes--no easy task there. She is fair and evenhanded in her dealings with taxpayers. She gets positive marks from her supervisors and other IRS employees, but, perhaps most importantly from taxpayers themselves who have worked with her. 
These three, and other employees like them, are the reason that most taxpayers today, even if frustrated by the forms and irritated with the amount of their tax bill, continue to comply with our voluntary tax collection system. Thank goodness for these employees. 
Is this conference report perfect? No. There are some things I would like to see changed. For example, I have some serious concerns about the creation of an accountant-client privilege in this context. I am concerned that we are using the Internal Revenue Code to effectively amend the Federal Rules of Evidence. We have a clear procedure for amending these rules already set out. Changing these rules is no simple matter. It should only be done through careful, deliberate evaluation of the change and the effect it will have on the judicial system. It should only be done with input from the Judicial Conference of the United States and others. 
Despite these misgivings, I want to reiterate the importance of the bill before us today. The IRS touches more taxpayers in more aspects of their lives than probably any other agency. The American taxpayers have every right to expect a higher level of professionalism, customer service, and fair treatment from an agency charged with enforcing the law in an area as important and pervasive as is the area of taxation. 
The conference report before us stays true to the ultimate goal of the IRS reform legislation--it protects both the honest taxpayer trying to comply with our complex tax laws and those honest employees struggling to enforce an almost incomprehensible set of tax laws with integrity. This conference report takes on and accomplishes the difficult task of striking the right balance between granting taxpayers the experience of paying taxes without abusive treatment while providing the tools necessary to fund the Government. 
There is no question that we have come a long way, with this bill, to resolve many of the conflicts and problems that do exist between taxpayers and those who serve the taxpayers at the IRS. This bill makes gigantic steps forward, to try to make the system more fair. I think we on the Finance Committee and those on the Ways and Means Committee in the House have certainly all worked very hard to get this done. 
In particular, I commend Senators Roth and Moynihan, Representatives Archer and Rangel, and my colleagues on the IRS Conference Committee for the hard work they put into crafting the conference report before us today. I was proud to add my name to the conference report as a conferee. I wholeheartedly support its passage and urge my colleagues to do the same. 
This is the right thing to do. Once we have this done, then, it seems to me, Democrats and Republicans have to get together to see if we can simplify our tax system in whatever way is best in the interests of the taxpayers of America. This is only step one, but it is an important step. It is a step that will make a lot of difference in people's lives. It is a step that will make this system much more fair than it has been in the past. 
But it is only the first step. If we can get together and come up with a way of simplifying the Tax Code so everybody can fill out their own tax forms, for the most part, and also make it more fair to everybody in America, then I think in the end we will have done things that no other group of people in the history of our country would have done. I know we have colleagues here on both committees, the Finance Committee and the Ways and Means Committee, who have the capacity to do this, both on the Democrat side and on the Republican side. I call on all our colleagues to do that, whether it be by a flat tax, a value-added tax, a sales tax, or any other of a number of approaches. We have to look into this and get this code so it is not the monstrosity that we all know it to be today. 
Having said this, I thank again my dear colleague from Florida for his kindness and also my colleague from Montana. I appreciate their deferring to me so I could make these few remarks. I really appreciate it. Thanks very much. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980706</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce today the Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations Codification Act. 
This legislation will codify as title 36, United States Code, certain general and permanent laws related to various Federally chartered patriotic and national observances, ceremonies, and organizations. Without making substantive changes, this bill restates existing law to remove ambiguities and inconsistencies and repeals obsolete, unnecessary, and superseded provisions. 
Some of the important organizations whose charters will be codified with this legislation include, among other: The American Legion, The American Society of International Law, Army and Navy Union of the United States of America, Boy Scouts of America, Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Congressional Medal of Honor Society of the United States of America, Girl Scouts of the United States of America, Jewish War Veterans of the United States of America, Incorporated, Little League Baseball, Incorporated, National Academy of Sciences, National Fund for Medical Education, United States Olympic Committee, The American National Red Cross. 
The bill was drafted by the Office of the Law Revision Counsel under the Office's statutory mandate to prepare and submit periodically to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, one title at a time, a restatement and revision of the general and permanent laws of the United States for enactment into positive law (2 U.S.C. 285b). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise this morning to speak for just a few moments on the Senate Judiciary Committee's progress with respect to our Microsoft inquiry and, more specifically, to share my perspectives on how Microsoft has conducted itself before the committee; to discuss some important developments from this past week; and to discuss the committee's upcoming plans with respect to the Microsoft issue. 
This week has been a significant one. Just yesterday, Windows 98 was rolled out to consumers. I might note that, contrary to Microsoft's emphatic protests last month that a federal lawsuit would have catastrophic consequences for the PC industry, the Justice Department did file suit, and, lo and behold, the sky has not fallen on either Microsoft or the computer industry. Meanwhile, the Department of Justice encountered a set back in its original consent decree case. And, something which got less attention in the midst of these other developments, the Software Publisher's Association, the 1,200 member software industry association of which Microsoft is a member, released a report describing how, if allowed to proceed with its tried and true market practices, Microsoft will extend its current desktop monopoly to control the market for network servers--a technology which provides the foundation for the Internet and corporate intranets. So this is important. Microsoft is attempting to extend its current monopoly of 90 percent of the underlying operating system to control all the market for network services, both the Internet and corporate intranets. 
So, for those who have looked seriously at the Microsoft issue, I believe it is clear that the issue is about much more than just the browser. In fact, I have never thought that the browser issue was the most important issue at all, although it is important if you look at all of the ramifications of the browser problems. 
It is about whether one company will be able to exploit its current monopoly in order to control access to, and commerce on, the Internet; whether one company will control the increasingly networked world in which we are coming to conduct our businesses and in which we are coming to lead our lives. 
Indeed, the reach of Microsoft's monopoly power is on the verge of extending well beyond markets which we have traditionally thought of as software or technology markets, and the effects of this expansion will be felt not just by the software companies who have traditionally competed with Microsoft, but by a broad swath of U.S. consumers. As The New York Times yesterday observed, 
Right now Microsoft is expanding into myriad Internet businesses, including news, entertainment information, banking, financial transactions, travel bookings and other services. Since consumers have no choice but to buy the Windows operating system when they buy personal computers, Microsoft is in a position to give such a big advantage to its own software that any other software maker would not be able to compete. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I believe this is one of the more important policy issues of our day, one which will have far reaching ramifications for years to come, and that it would be remiss for lawmakers and law enforcers not to be paying close attention to these issues. So, when we return from the July recess, I plan to hold further hearings on competition in the digital age. In particular, I plan for the committee to examine market practices and developments in the so-called `enterprise' or back office software market, and more generally to examine practices and developments affecting access to, and transactions on the Internet. Specific hearing dates and witness lists will be released when finalized. 
While I will reserve comments regarding Microsoft's tactics in these markets until after we learn more about this issue next month, I do have a few comments regarding Microsoft's tactics in Washington over the last several months. In a nutshell, I would offer my view that Microsoft has, regrettably, seen fit to deploy a massive pr campaign grounded in spin control and misdirection, as opposed to engaging the American public, on the basis of the facts and the merits surrounding all of these issues. 
For starters, I find it rather surprising that any one company would, rather than seeking to prevail on the merits, instead have the hubris to try and use the appropriations process to `go on the offensive' and seek to restrain a federal law enforcement agency that has an obligation to enforce the laws, as was recently reported. I trust that my colleagues in this Chamber would have little difficulty in seeing this as anything but an effort to interfere with an ongoing law enforcement action. I can certainly appreciate my colleagues wanting to go to bat for their constituent, but I would find it surprising and disturbing were they or any other Senators swayed to permit this body to seriously consider such an effort to interfere with the appropriations system hope and cut out funds for the Justice Department division on antitrust. I hope that they don't continue in those efforts if those reports are true. 
More fundamentally, though, I am troubled that Microsoft has seen fit to engage in a game of hide the ball, as opposed to putting their best case forward on the facts and on the merits. This issue has nothing to do with the government trying to design software. It is about trying to preserve competition and innovation--the hallmark of a free market--in an area that is absolutely critical to the future of our economy and I guess you have to pay the world. It is critical to our economy, as well. It is about getting to the bottom of the true facts here so as to understand how best to accomplish this fundamental objective. Frankly, if the facts truly aren't so bad, I would expect Microsoft to be happy to explain them. 
One of the issues I have been concerned with since last fall, for example, happens to be the restrictive contracts Microsoft has imposed on various Internet firms seeking placement on the ubiquitous Windows desktop. Rather than admit that they have indeed imposed such terms, and explain to us why we should not find them objectionable, Microsoft has consistently sought to avoid the existence and implications of these contract terms. When pressed on the issue, Microsoft announced on the eve of our March hearing that it would no longer enforce these restrictive covenants or these restrictive contract provisions, instead of explaining why these provisions were legal. But, when the Justice Department filed its suit nearly three months later, we learn not only that these restrictive and exclusionary provisions existed, but that Microsoft in fact continues to enforce them with respect to the biggest Internet firms such as AOL and Compuserve, notwithstanding Microsoft's prior representations to the Committee that these very provisions had been removed from its contracts `on a worldwide basis.' 
These are just a few examples where Microsoft has been less than one hundred percent candid and forthright. There are others. Committee staff has prepared a brief report outlining some of the areas where I believe Microsoft could and should have been more forthright with the Committee. 
As the Committee continues its inquiry, I plan to give Microsoft a fair opportunity to be heard on these issues. But I think they should be heard on the record, rather than through carefully orchestrated, multi-million dollar pr campaigns that are more concerned with blurring the true facts than explaining them. So I hope that, when given the opportunity to be heard on the record, Microsoft chooses to be somewhat more candid with the American people than it has been so far. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest people who are interested in this issue not only listen to what I have to say here today but that they read this. I think they will find that this is a group that basically disassembles on many issues. Frankly, I don't think they need to disassemble. All they have to do is come in and tell their case forthright and in a fair and reasonable manner and do it on the merits. If you read this, I think you will realize this is a much more serious set of problems than some in the media make it, especially some of those who seem to think there should never be an enforcement of the antitrust laws. 
You don't get people from the left to the right, or right to the left--from Bork to you-name-it on the left--saying that there are things that are wrong here, that there is an exploitation of the monopoly power of 90 percent of the operating system and the desktop operating systems throughout the world to crush competition and to do a number of other things that basically are violative of our laws, without their being some heat to some of the arguments that they are making. 
I have to say, our committee hearings have shown that there are some things that are wrong here. It is a matter of getting people in the software industry to have the guts to come forward and tell their stories. For instance, the OEM, the original equipment manufacturers, are terrified because they depend totally on Microsoft's underlying operating system to run their machines. All Microsoft has to do is to delay the delivery of that underlying operating system or anything else they do to the OEMs by 1 week and they could be multimillions of dollars in the hole as others get an unfair advantage. We have had people come in and tell us, who are afraid to testify for fear they would lose their business, that they have been warned they better not cooperate with the committee or they better not tell the story. 
This happens in a wide variety of things according to people who have come to us. Now I think they have to have the guts to get in front of the committee and tell their stories and let the chips fall where they may. If they are true, if what they have been alleging to us and to the Justice Department is true, then we ought to find out about it and Microsoft ought to have some answers for it. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am proud to support passage of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children Authorization Act of 1998. This bill recognizes the outstanding record of achievements of this outstanding organization and will enable NCMEC to provide even greater protection of our Nation's children in the future. In addition, I am offering an amendment with the text of the Child Exploitation Sentencing Enhancements Act along with the sponsors of that legislation, S. 900, Senators Feingold and DeWine. Lastly, I urge the Senate to accept an amendment offered by Senator Leahy and myself to reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act and for other purposes. 
The underlying bill, S. 2073, authorizes appropriations for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. As part of the Missing Children's Assistance Act, the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention has selected and given grants to the Center for the last 14 years to operate a national resource center located in Arlington, Virginia and a national 24-hour toll-free telephone line. the Center provides invaluable assistance and training to law enforcement around the country in cases of missing and exploited children. the Center's record is quite impressive, and its efforts have led directly to a significant increase in the percentage of missing children who are recovered safely. 
In fiscal year 1998, the Center received an earmark of $6.9 million in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations conference report. In addition, the Center's Jimmy Ryce Training Center received 1.185M in this report. 
This legislation directs OJJDP to make a grant to the Center and authorizes appropriations up to $10 million in fiscal years 1999 through 2003. The authorization would, of course, be subject to appropriations. This bill thus continues and formalizes NCMEC's long partnership with the Justice Department and OJJDP. 
NCMEC's exemplary record of performance and success, as demonstrated by the fact that NCMEC's recovery rate has climbed from 62%to 91%, justifies action by Congress to formally recognize it as the nation's official missing and exploited children's center, and to authorize a line-item appropriation. This bill will enable the Center to focus completely on its missions, without expending the annual effort to obtain authority and grants from OJJDP. It also will allow the Center to expand its longer term arrangements with domestic and foreign law enforcement entities. By providing an authorization, the bill also will allow for better congressional oversight of the Center. 
The record of the Center, described briefly below, demonstrates the appropriateness of this authorization. 
For fourteen years the Center has served as the national resource center and clearinghouse mandated by the Missing Children's Assistance Act. The Center has worked in partnership with the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Treasury, the State Department, and many other federal and state agencies in the effort to find missing children and prevent child victimization. 
The trust the federal government has placed in NCMEC, a private, non-profit corporation, is evidenced by its unique access to the FBI's National Crime Information Center, and the National Law Enforcement Telecommunications system (NLETS). 
NCMEC has utilized the latest in technology, such as operating the National Child Pornography Tipline, establishing its new Internet website, www.missingkids.com, which is linked with hundreds of other websites to provide real-time images of breaking cases of missing children, and, beginning this year, establishing a new CyberTipline on child exploitation. 
NCMEC has established a national and increasingly worldwide network linking NCMEC online with each of the missing children clearinghouses operated by the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. In addition, NCMEC works constantly with international law enforcement authorities such as Scotland Yard in the United Kingdom, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, INTERPOL headquarters in Lyon, France, and others. This network enables NCMEC to transmit images and information regarding missing children to law enforcement across America and around the world instantly. NCMEC also serves as the U.S. State Department's representative at child abduction cases under the Hague Convention. 
The record of NCMEC is demonstrated by the 1,203,974 calls received at its 24-hour toll-free hotline, 1(800)THE LOST, the 146,284 law enforcement, criminal/juvenile justice, and healthcare professionals trained, the 15,491,344 free publications distributed, and, most importantly, by its work on 59,481 cases of missing children, which has resulted in the recovery of 40,180 children. Each of these figures represents the activity of NCMEC through this spring. 
NCMEC is a shining example of the type of public-private partnership the Congress should encourage and recognize. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which would help improve the performance of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and thus the safety of our Nation's children. 
In addition, I offer an amendment to S. 2073, along with Senators Feingold and DeWine, which contains the text of S. 900, the Child Exploitation Sentencing Enhancement Act. It is of the utmost importance that our children be protected from predatory pedophiles who roam the streets and the Internet looking for innocent children to victimize. These offenders need to be sent a message that the punishment for their actions will be serve and predictable. 
Unfortunately, the anonymity provided by a computer linked to the Internet is being used by pedophiles more each day to lure children into harmful, dangerous and potentially deadly situations. Often, the perpetrator will entice the child by convincing the child that he also is a child, thus easing the child's fears and inhibitions. The Hatch-Feingold-Dewine amendment calls for the Sentencing Commission to enhance the sentencing guidelines for punishment of individuals who have used a computer to lure a child into sexual abuse or exploitation, or who has misrepresented himself for those purposes. 
In addition to increasing the maximum penalties for first time offenders found guilty of transporting or enticing others for illegal sexual purposes or for traveling for illegal sexual purposes, the amendment also ensures that the penalties for repeat offenders are tougher, as they should be. Those convicted for transporting or luring minors for illegal sexual purposes, of for traveling across state lines to abuse a minor, will face up to twice the maximum jail sentence if they have previously been convicted of a similar crime. Those who are convicted of crossing state lines to sexually abuse minors or who do so on federal property, having previously been convicted of a similar crime, will also see their potential prison sentences doubled. 
Finally, the amendment will authorize funds to ensure that child victims and witnesses to crimes involving sexual abuse and exploitation will have the services of professional, experienced guardians appointed to assist them in legal proceedings where necessary and appropriate. It is important that those who have been traumatized by sexual abuse not be victimized by the criminal justice system a second time. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important amendment. 
Lastly, I have joined with Senator Leahy in offering an amendment to reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act. According to the National Network for Youth, this Act provides `critical assistance to youth in high-risk situations all over the country.' The three programs, discussed in more detail below, benefit those children truly in need and at high risk of becoming addicted to drugs or involved in criminal behavior. For these reasons, I supported including this reauthorization as section 306 of S. 10, the Violent and Repeat Offender Act. 
The cornerstone of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act is the Basic Center Program which provides grants for temporary shelter and counseling for children under age 18. My home state of Utah received over $378,000 in grants in FY 1998 under this program, and I have received requests from Utah organizations such as the Baker Youth Service Home to reauthorize this important program. 
Community-based organizations also may request grants under the two related programs, the Transitional Living and the Sexual Abuse Prevention/Street Outreach programs. The Transitional Living grants provide longer term housing to homeless teens aged 16 to 21, and aim to move these teens to self-sufficiency and to avoid long-term dependency on public assistance. The Sexual Abuse Prevention/Street Outreach Program targets homeless teens potentially involved in high risk behaviors. 
In addition, the amendment reauthorizes the Runaway and homeless Youth Act Rural Demonstration Projects which provide assistance to rural juvenile populations, such as in my state of Utah. Finally, the amendment makes several technical corrections to fix prior drafting errors in the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act. 
The combination of this bill and the amendments will strengthen our commitment to our youth, and I urge adoption of the amendments and the bill as amended.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I will say one thing. With the approval of these two judges, this Republican Congress will have confirmed, during the full tenure of President Clinton, 272 Federal judges, following the confirmation of these two judges. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that we have two separate back-to-back votes of 15 minutes each on the two nominations we're considering this morning. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on both of the nominations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I salute one of the greatest Senators this body has ever seen. Strom Thurmond is one of the greatest men I have ever known. A fine attorney, judge, local and State leader, war veteran, patriot, hero and long-term Senator. Strom is a great father and family man. He is a fine human being who always stands up for the right with all his might. He has been a fine example to all of us who serve with him and to the public at large. 
I've had the privilege of serving on the Judiciary Committee with him over the past 22 years. He has always worked hard, fought for his beliefs, and has set an example for all of us. 
I truly love Strom Thurmond and will do my best to live up to his great example.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today with my friend and colleague Senator Baucus I introduce the International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1998. This bill will provide much-needed tax relief from complex and inconsistent tax laws that burden our American-owned companies which are attempting to compete in the world marketplace. 
Our foreign tax code is in desperate need of reform and simplification. The rules in this arena are way too complex and, often, their results are perverse. 
Mr. President, the economy of this country has entered into an environment like no other in our history. The American economy has experienced significant growth and prosperity. That success, however, is becoming more and more intertwined with the success of our businesses in the global marketplace. As the economic boundaries from country to country merge closer together, as technology blurs traditional geographical boundaries, and as competition continues to increase from previously lesser-developed nations, it is imperative that American-owned businesses be able to compete effectively. 
It seems to me that any rule, regulation, requirement, or tax that we can alleviate to enhance competitiveness will insure to the benefit of American companies, their employees, and shareholders. 
There are many barriers that the U.S. economy must overcome in order to remain competitive that Congress cannot hurdle by itself. All around the world, we have international trade negotiators working hard to remove the barriers to foreign markets that discourage and hamper U.S. trade. This is very important to the future economic growth of the U.S. economy. However, this effort has largely ignored the largest source of artificial and unnecessary trade barriers experienced by U.S. companies operating abroad--the complexities and inconsistencies contained in our own tax code. 
We cannot continue the status quo--we must work to remove the barriers in our own back yard as diligently as we attack those imposed by other countries. The failure to do so will even jeopardize our own domestic economy as American companies are lured to other countries with simple, more favorable tax treatment. 
The business world is changing at an increasingly rapid pace. Tax laws have failed to keep pace with the rapid changes in the world technology and economy. We enacted some foreign tax simplification in last year's Taxpayer Relief Act, but these changes are not enough. Too many of the international provisions in the Internal Revenue Code have not been substantially debated and revised in over a decade. Since that time, existing international markets have changed significantly and we have seen new markets created. The U.S. tax code needs to adapt to the changing times as well. The continued use of a confusing and archaic tax code only results in a mismatch with commercial reality. 
If we close American companies out of the international arena due to complex and burdensome tax rules on exports and foreign production, then we are denying them the ability to compete and dooming the, and ourselves, to anemic economic growth and all its adverse subsidiary effects. 
The bill we are introducing today is not a comprehensive solution, neither is it a set of bold new initiatives. Instead, this bill contains a set of important intermediate steps which will take us a long way toward simplifying the rules and making some sense of the international tax regime. The bill contains provisions to simplify and update the tax treatment of controlled foreign corporations, fix some of the rules relating to the foreign tax credit, and make other changes to international tax law. 
Some of these changes are in areas that are in dire need of repair, and others are changes that take into consideration the changes we have seen in international business practices and environments during the last decade. The provisions in this bill are necessary to facilitate the American economy's ability to remain the driving economic force in the world of the future. 
One example of the need for updating our laws to more adequately represent rapid changes that have occurred in the last few years is the financial service industry. This industry has seen technological and global changes that have changed the very nature of the way these corporations do business both here and abroad. This bill contains several provisions to help adapt the foreign tax regime to keep up with these changes. 
In particular, I want to highlight the provision regarding a Subpart F Exception for active financial services income. This provision is based in large part on the one-year rule embodied in H.R. 2513, the House-passed bill that resulted from lengthy negotiations between the Treasury Department and the financial services industry. The bill's provisions are not intended to replace H.R. 2513. Rather, this bill goes further and provides additional options to facilitate discussion regarding the parameters of a permanent rule that would effectively level the playing field with respect to our foreign competition. This discussion is even more important in view of the Supreme Court's ruling on the line-item veto this morning. 
The bill also allows deferral for cross-border income received by controlled foreign corporations engaged in the active conduct of a banking, financing, or similar business under narrowly defined circumstances. This provision is designed to preclude opportunities for excessive `mobility' of income. The first safeguard is the requirement that income eligible for deferral must be derived from a transaction with a `customer.' The definition of a customer would not permit a related-party transaction to qualify if one of the principal purposes for such transaction was to satisfy the underlying provision. Second, the requirement that employees meet 
a `material participation' test will reinforce the active nature of the covered activities. Thus, corporations holding passive investments would be precluded from relying on the rule. 
There are many areas of the international tax regime not covered by this bill. This legislation represents a pragmatic collection of proposals, not an exhaustive one. One area I think needs to be explored is the foreign tax rules as they apply to foreign corporations with U.S. operations and subsidiaries. These companies are helping the U.S. economy grow. They buy and sell U.S. products, and they employ U.S. workers. We need to examine the international tax law and any barriers it creates for these companies. We must ensure that the U.S. tax law is written and enforced fairly for all companies operating in the U.S. I hope that we can include provisions in this area in future versions of this legislation. 
This bill is not the end of the international tax debate. if we were to pass every provision it contains, we would still not have a simple tax code. We would need to make more reforms yet. We cannot limit this debate to only the intermediate changes such as those in this bill. We must not lose sight of the long term. I intend to continue this debate with an eye to the future and propel the discussion to broader, more sweeping areas in need of reform such as interest allocation, the international tax treatment of partnerships, issues raised by the European Union, and a broader debate of Subpart F itself. I believe that we must address these concerns in the next few years if we are to put U.S. corporations and the U.S. economy in a position to maintain economic position in the global economy of tomorrow. 
This bill is important to the future of every American citizen. Without these changes, American businesses will see their ability to compete diminished, and the U.S. will have an uphill battle to remain the preeminent economic force in a changing world. This credible package of international tax reforms will help to keep our businesses and our economy competitive and a driving force in the world economic picture. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today with my colleague, Senator Conrad, I introduce the Biomass and Coal Facilities Extension Act. This legislation would extend the `placed in service' date under section 29 for facilities that produce alternative fuels by 8 months. 
Section 29 was originally created to encourage the development of alternative fuels to reduce our dependence on imports and to reduce the environmental impacts of certain fuels. With the enormous reserves of low rank coals and lignite in the United States and around the world, and with the potential for use of biomass and other alternatives, it is particularly important to the American economy and the world's environment that new, more environmentally friendly fuels are brought to market here and in developing nations. 
Bringing new technologies to market is financially risky. In particular, finding investors to take a new technology from a laboratory table to the market is difficult because working the bugs out of a first-of-a-kind, full-sized plant is a costly undertaking. Incentives to bring new, clean energy technologies to the market in the U.S. are a worthwhile use of the code. 
The 1996 Small Business Protection Act provided sufficient incentives to make the development of alternative fuels a viable pursuit. In particular, it extended the section 29 `placed in service' date for facilities designed to produce energy from biomass or processed coals to July 1, 1998, provided that those facilities were constructed pursuant to a binding contract entered into before January 1, 1997. 
However, the Administration's budget proposal, released in February 1997, effectively nullified the extension granted by Congress in the 1996 Small Business Protection Act. The Administration proposed that the placed in service date be moved up one year, to July 1, 1997, which, for many of these projects, was an impossible deadline to meet. 
Without the assurance of the section 29 tax credit, financing for these projects dried up, stranding taxpayers in contracts, some of which contained significant liquidated damages clauses, already entered into in reliance on the Small Business Protection Act of 1996. As a result of the Administration's proposal, taxpayers essentially lost 8 months of the extension given them in 1996. 
Mr. President, the bill before us would give these lost months back to companies with contracts signed by January 1, 1997. This bill does not extend the contract deadline, allow more projects to be initiated, or change the 2008 deadline for receiving the section 29 tax credit. This bill simply restores the time taxpayers lost in their efforts to develop environmentally friendly fuels under section 29. 
Bringing new alternative fuel technologies to the market is an important part of our commitment to a cleaner environment and a secure economy. We reflected that commitment in our efforts to mitigate some of the financial risk involved in developing this much needed technology in the Small Business Protection Act of 1996. This bill maintains that commitment. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleagues. 
Mr. President, it is my understanding that the Senator from Utah has 20 minutes and the Senator from California has 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We will be happy to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to announce that--contrary to press reports that tobacco legislation is dead--in fact, a strong, bipartisan effort to enact meaningful tobacco legislation is very much alive and well in the Senate today. 
Last week's action by the Senate on the Commerce Committee tobacco bill should not be viewed as a failure by this Senate to pass tough tobacco legislation. 
Nor should it be viewed as a victory by tobacco companies and tobacco lobbyists to kill tobacco legislation and deny the public health benefits from a strong bill. 
To be fair, there were many criticisms of the Commerce bill. It suffered from a myriad of legal problems, including several unconstitutional provisions. Its costs were very high, perhaps as high as $800 billion. It could have provided enhanced opportunities for black market sales, with accompanying crime and violence. 
And, a bad bill was made worse on the floor with adoption of several, additional competing spending priorities which--however well-intentioned--diverted from the primary focus of the bill [e.g. child care, illegal drug abuse, tax cuts.] 
In my opinion, the four weeks that the Senate spent on the tobacco bill were a critical and useful exercise in educating ourselves--and the American public--on the numerous complexities of the tobacco issue. By and large, we now have a better understanding of this issue and what Congress should do to develop a good bill. 
Accordingly, Senator Feinstein, Senator Breaux and I have come to the floor today to announce our bipartisan effort to work toward a strong tobacco bill that, we believe, will be acceptable to the vast majority of our colleagues. 
There are eight cosponsors on our side and three cosponsors thus far on the Democrat side. And it is bipartisan. 
We must not lose sight of the fact that we have a very real opportunity, a compelling opportunity to act on tobacco this year. 
We believe the best framework for legislation clearly remains in the provisions of the June 20, 1997 global tobacco settlement that was agreed to by 40 State Attorneys General and the tobacco industry. 
This document should serve as the blueprint on which the Senate should act. It should be clean of extraneous provisions and programs and targeted to the overwhelming need to educate our nation's youth on the hazards of tobacco use. 
I call upon my colleagues--both Republicans and Democrats--to join us in this bipartisan effort to protect the lives of American youth. 
I call upon the President to work with us in a bipartisan effort to forge meaningful tobacco legislation. Without your active participation and support, Mr. President, there can be no tobacco bill. Together we can make a positive and defining difference. 
Senator Feinstein, Senator Breaux and I are prepared to move forward with tobacco legislation that is constitutionally sound and that will protect millions of Americans, both young and old, from the enticement of the deadly tobacco habit. We simply cannot lose this opportunity. 
We do not intend to remain on the sidelines while this issue languishes and political rhetoric is thrown back and forth. 
Some of my colleagues have stated they intend to offer the Commerce Committee tobacco bill as an amendment to all appropriate legislation on the floor of the Senate. Let me say to my friends that I share your concern that the Senate should pass legislation this year. 
I ask that you join us in our bipartisan effort to enact a settlement-based bill. Together we can realize enactment of tobacco legislation that has seemed so illusive over the past several weeks. 
I would like to outline this legislation so that my colleagues will understand the basics of the bill that we will file in the future. 
Number one, the key to an effective program, according to public health experts, is that it must be comprehensive. 
The Hatch-Feinstein bill accomplishes this goal with major provisions that build upon the June 20, 1997, agreement and the plaintiffs' attorneys' settlement proposal. Ours would require $428.5 billion in payments over 25 years. That is $60 billion more than the June 20, 1997 proposal. 
Our bill will focus on antitobacco activities, including prevention and research efforts, and give full FDA authority over tobacco products. This is important because no comprehensive, antitobacco bill can be passed without the voluntary cooperation of the tobacco companies. 
When the proposed settlement was announced last June, with a record $368.5 billion in industry payments, we were all astounded that the tobacco companies would agree to pay that whopping amount of money. That record amount, that `ceiling' as it were, was astounding. Now there are those who talk like that is nothing. 
Our bill will add another $60 billion to that $368.5 billion in required industry payments over 25 years. 
I am hopeful our bill will bring the tobacco companies back. 
Yes, they will be kicking and screaming. They will be angry. They will be upset. But, I predict they will come back. 
There has been considerable debate in this body about the adequacy of the industry payments. I wish we could require $1 trillion in payments. 
The plain fact is that we have to be reasonable. If we want a comprehensive and constitutional bill, then we will have to insert provisions to bring the industry back to the discussion. Only with their participation can we have a truly constitutional, comprehensive bill. 
Of the $428 billion in industry payments, $100 billion will be devoted to biomedical and behavioral research. 
These significant new revenues are devoted to efforts to prevent, treat, and cure tobacco-related and other illnesses. We have included funds for behavioral research as well, so that we can determine the causes for youth tobacco use and determine how best to address them. 
Let me emphasize, we provide $100 billion over 25 years, or $4 billion a year, for biomedical and behavioral research, with no possibility the funds will be diverted for other, non-tobacco-related purposes. That is something that will benefit the public health of this country significantly. 
We also provide $92 billion for important public health programs to combat youth tobacco use, including counteradvertising, smoking cessation, and public education. Again, this is all for tobacco-related public health programs. 
We also include $18.7 billion for tobacco farm families, by melding the Lugar bill and the best of the LEAF Act, Senator Ford's bill, other than continuing the subsidies. 
Public health authorities insist that increasing tobacco prices is an important weapon in our anti-youth-tobacco-use arsenal. Law enforcement is equally adamant that price increases will lead to greater opportunities for black market sales. Our bill will substantially enhance law enforcement resources at all levels--Federal, state and local--and will also provide new criminal penalties for trafficking in contraband. The Hatch-Feinstein-Breaux bill will provide $9.4 billion for law enforcement efforts, which will be essential in the eyes of law enforcement. 
Turning to another provision, our bill includes $5 billion for tobacco-related programs for Native Americans, who are particularly hard hit by some of the problems that come from tobacco. We provide $200 million a year for these Native American programs. 
Let me add that we also give FDA strong and new authority over tobacco products, authority that is in question in light of current litigation over this issue. We also include strong look-back assessments, which, without the tobacco companies on board, will not be constitutional. 
In addition, when I say we give FDA strong new authority, we mean it. We not only give them the authority, we give them the authority to ban tobacco products, with the consent of Congress, right from day one. And we require them to issue strong performance standards that industry must meet so that we can be assured that any tobacco products sold in the future, meet government-mandated standards with respect to their critical components, such as tar and nicotine and all other additives. So that is important. That is quite a bit different from what was included in the Commerce bill, where the performance standards were permissive, not mandatory. We keep the industry's feet to the fire by including a strong look-back provision which will provide the industry with the incentives to be good actors, but which will provide stringent penalties if they are not. 
We provide $204 billion to the States to settle their suits and provide reimbursement for their Medicaid costs. We waive Federal recoupment of these funds under Medicaid law. 
The challenge for Congress is to design a program which works and which will withstand legal challenge. The problem with the Commerce bill, had it passed, is that it would have been litigated for probably 10 years, because it was unconstitutional. 
Senator Feinstein, the other cosponsors, and I, have worked very hard to avoid constitutional and other legal pitfalls which handicapped the Commerce bill. 
So, to sum up, our bill contains constitutionally permissible advertising and marketing provisions, advertising restraints well-beyond those contained in the FDA rule. We have strong look-back assessments--up to $5 billion in penalties in 2004 and up to $10 billion by the year 2009 if the industry does not meet the reductions in youth-smoking that we set in the bill. 
And our bill mandates establishment of a documents depository in a central location, Washington, DC, where all of the tobacco companies will deposit critical industry documents. This will be done by volition, since the companies will have agreed to the protocol contained in the bill. This should make it easier for individual claimants to sue and to recover. And that is no small thing. 
Now, under Hatch-Feinstein, the manufacturers, State governments, the Castano litigants, and the Federal Government voluntarily execute a binding and enforceable contractual agreement, so that tobacco companies will have agreed, voluntarily to meet the requirements of the bill. 
Similarly, with the industry voluntarily consenting to the agreement, this obviates any constitutional problems with the look-back provision. 
We have included several limited liability provisions, which is the one prerequisite to the industry voluntarily agreeing to a bill; this will give the industry greater predictability in their financial exposure due to lawsuits, and which in turn will provide the Federal Government with a more predictable revenue stream to operate its new antitobacco program. 
Now, with respect to the limited liability provisions, we settle all Federal, State and local suits, including class actions, in line with the settlement nature of the legislation. That is what the attorneys general did. Shutting off the State litigation allows us to provide the States, counties and cities with guaranteed payments of up to $204 billion, without the need for costly and time-consuming litigation and without Federal Medicaid recovery. 
Specifically, we provide $204 billion to the States. Forty percent of the State funds are untied; 60 percent of the State funds are targeted for 14 specific programs. 
We fully preserve all individuals' rights to pursue their injury claims, and all individual suits will be preserved and allowed to proceed except for those making claim for treatment only of addiction or dependency. 
We settle all past punitive damages in exchange for an unprecedented $100 billion which will be used for biomedical and behavioral research. Future judgments against the industry, with the exception of claims for addiction and dependence, will be subject to punitive damages, but they will also be subject to a cap on total awards during any given year. 
May I ask, Mr. President, how much of my time is remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just proceed a few minutes more before I turn to my colleagues, and then I will reserve the remainder of my time. 
The Hatch-Feinstein-Breaux bill contains many provisions that mirror those contained in the proposed settlement of June 20 of last year. 
We are trying to accomplish the art of the impossible. We want to enact this astounding settlement, this unprecedented agreement wherein the tobacco companies voluntarily concur in making large annual payments in exchange for unprecedented new advertising bans and future look-back penalties. 
If we cannot maintain the consensual nature of the original settlement, then we lose the ability to accomplish many of the key elements of any comprehensive anti-tobacco legislation. 
I want us togo home this year proud that we have enacted a good bill, not ashamed of our inaction or our action on a faulty bill. 
I thank my colleagues for being willing to support this bill. On the Republican side it is myself, the Senator from Oregon, Mr Smith, Senator Jeffords, Senator Gorton, Senator Bennett, Senator Hutchison, Senator Kempthorne, and Senator DeWine; on the other side, Senators Feinstein, Torricelli and Breaux. Let me reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am happy to yield the last couple minutes of my time to the distinguished Senator from California, if she would like. 
Mr. President, let me just bring one other point to the Senate's attention. Press articles in the past few days make it abundantly clear the need to enact a national settlement. 
Yesterday, the Washington Post had a front page article: `Tobacco Pays for Crusade Against Itself.' Think about that for a minute. This article highlights what it calls an `all-fronts attack' on tobacco, a massive counteradvertising campaign paid for by the industry itself. Those potent tools would be used by all 50 States if we enacted a national settlement. The article highlights the strong counter-advertising message that is being delivered in Florida because of the settlement. 
Then today, the Post ran another article that was entitled: `Appeals Court Voids Award in Tobacco Suit.' This article describes the Florida court of appeals action to overturn a $750,000 judgment against the Brown and Williamson tobacco corporation for a smoker who lost part of his lung to cancer. 
Experts agree that the ruling, which overturned a judgement termed by the AMA as a `milestone,' has important national implications. This jury award was just the second jury award against a tobacco company in all of our history in this country. 
Now, you can go back to the 1960s, when I became a young lawyer in Pittsburgh, PA. The first antitobacco cigarette cancer case in the history of the world was brought to the Federal district court by none other than Jimmy McArdle, one of the greatest plaintiffs' attorneys who ever lived, the lead partner in the law firm McArdle, Harrington, Feeney, and McLaughlin. 
That was a big battle. This case was publicized all over the country. It was the first loss of literally hundreds of cases. 
The ruling in the Florida case was just the second awarded against tobacco companies, and its reversal once again demonstrates how hard it is to successfully sue the tobacco industry. 
This ruling affirms the vitality of the common law doctrine of assumption of risk which bars recovery if the plaintiff knew the risk of his action. Because of the assumption of risk doctrine, the tobacco companies win almost all their cases. 
A national settlement bill, such as Hatch-Feinstein, would assure an orderly and rational payout of funds by earmarking annual payments. It would avoid the so-called `race to the courthouse' that has so many of us concerned. 
These two Washington Post articles point out the need for a `global' approach in the words of the Attorneys General. 
I would happily yield the remainder of my time to my friend from California.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I thank my dear colleague for his kind remarks on the floor. I just want to again express my regard for him and for the service he has given to his country, not only being an effective and very important and powerful U.S. Senator, but also as a hero, in my eyes, having served our country in the war and having sacrificed greatly for our country. 
From my point of view, if he wants a judgeship nominee, he is going to be given the benefit of the doubt in every way. And I have to say, in the case of Susan Oki Mollway of Hawaii, I do support her for this position as a United States district court judge. I plan to vote for her nomination, as I did in committee. If confirmed--and I believe she will be confirmed--Ms. Mollway will be the 270th Clinton judicial nominee to be reported by the Judiciary Committee and confirmed by the Senate. 
In light of this record of accomplishment and in light of some recent remarks made on the floor of the Senate, I thought it would be appropriate for me to spend a few minutes reviewing our record in processing President Clinton's nominees. 
I have been working with White House Counsel Chuck Ruff to ensure that the nomination and confirmation process is a collaborative one between the White House and the Members of the Senate. I think it is fair to say that after a few bumpy months in which the process suffered due to inadequate consultation between the White House and some Senators, the process is now working rather smoothly. I think the progress is due to the White House's renewed commitment to good-faith consultation with Senators of both parties. 
I strongly believe that we must do our best to reduce the 73 current vacancies in the Federal courts. But, frankly, there are limits to what we can do given the administration's performance so far. The fact of the matter is that, of the 45 nominees currently pending, 15 of those were received during the last month alone. And it takes 3 to 6 months just to process Federal district and circuit court judges. These are very tough positions. These are positions that are lifetime appointments, and they deserve the scrutiny that we have always applied on the committee, whether the committee has been controlled by Democrats or Republicans. 
Of the 45 total judicial nominees that are pending, 10 are individuals simply renominated from last Congress. 
Last year, the administration renominated a total of 23 nominees from the 104th Congress. Thirteen of them have been confirmed, but some of the others have some problems. That is why they were held over. 
Of those 73 vacancies, 28 have not yet received a nominee, and it was only a few months ago when better than half of the total vacancies of around 81 or 82 did not have a nominee. Like I said, we have received 15 nominees within the last month. So, many of the vacancies come as a result not of the committee's slow pace but of the administration's inaction. 
Moreover, of the 115 judicial nominees sent forward to the committee this Congress, 82 of them have had hearings. Of the 82 nominees who have had hearings, 74 have been reported out of the committee. Of those 74 nominees reported out of the committee, 66 have been confirmed and 7 are pending on the Senate floor. One of those seven will be confirmed shortly, I hope, in the form of Susan Oki Mollway. 
Assuming most of these nominees the committee has processed are confirmed, I think you will see that our efforts compare quite favorably to prior Congresses in terms of the number of judges confirmed at this point in the second session of the Congress, especially if you look at the recent Democrat-controlled Congresses. For example, during the second session of the 102nd Congress, when President Bush was in office and the Democrats controlled the Senate and therefore the Judiciary Committee, guess how many nominees had been confirmed by July of 1992? Thirty. That is all. How many Clinton nominees this year will we have confirmed were we to stop confirming judges after today? Thirty-one. And we are not through with this session yet. As of July 1, 1990, the Democratic Senate had only confirmed 25 of the Bush nominees nominated that year. As of July 1, 1988, only 21 of Reagan nominees confirmed that year had been confirmed by the Democrat-controlled Senate. So the plain fact is that we are right on track, if not ahead of previous Congresses. 
Now, while I am concerned that some vacancies need to be filled, I think there has been considerable distortion of the overall situation. There is by no means an unprecedented level of vacancies. In fact, there are more sitting judges today than there were throughout virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations. As of today, we have 767 active Federal judges. In addition, there are also well over 400 senior judges who can, and often do, hear cases. 
Keep in mind that the Clinton administration is on record as having stated that 63 vacancies--a vacancy rate just over 7 percent--is considered virtual full employment of the Federal Judiciary. They were right; when we have around 60 vacancies, we have virtually full employment. It is natural that there will always be some vacancies in light of the turnaround time involved in receiving and reviewing nominees. That is as it should be. Seventy-three vacancies, however, is a vacancy rate of 9 percent. Now, how can a vacancy rate from 7 percent to 9 percent convert `full employment' into a `crisis'? 
Moreover, compare today's 73 vacancies to the vacancies under a Democratic Senate during President Bush's Administration. In May 1991 there were 148 vacancies, and in May 1992 there were 117 vacancies. I find it interesting that at that time I don't recall a single news article or floor speech on judicial vacancies. So, in short, I think it is quite unfair and, frankly, inaccurate to report that the Republican Congress has created a vacancy crisis in our courts. 
While the debate about vacancy rates on our Federal courts is not unimportant, it remains more important that the Senate perform its advise and consent function thoroughly and responsibly. Federal judges serve for life and perform an important constitutional function, without direct political accountability to the people. Accordingly, the Senate should never move too quickly on nominations before it. I do not believe that we are moving too quickly on this nominee. This nominee is getting considered today, 
and I hope that she passes. 
Just this past year, we saw two examples of what can happen when we try to move nominations along perhaps too quickly. In one instance, a sitting Federal district judge nominated for a very important Federal appeals court was forced to withdraw the nomination after he had a hearing in the Judiciary Committee when it was discovered that he had lied about certain details of his background. 
In another instance, a nominee for a Federal district court was reported out of the Judiciary Committee before all the details of her record as a judge on a State trial court were known. As it happens, the district attorney in the nominee's city and the district attorneys' association in her home State have all recently come to publicly oppose the nomination, setting forth facts demonstrating a very serious antiprosecution bias in her judicial record. 
It is cases like these that underscore the importance of proceeding very deliberately with nominations for these most important life-tenured positions. Even so, you can be too deliberate; you can delay these too much. I think under my tenure as chairman of the committee we have not done that. I hope that our colleagues on the other side realize that. 
In closing, I feel I should respond to some unfortunate remarks made recently on the floor of the Senate. I am referring to a speech where one of my colleagues accused the Senate majority of `stalling Hispanic women and minority nominees' because of `ethnic and gender biases.' 
Day in and day out, the Judiciary Committee routinely has evaluated and reported on literally hundreds of Clinton judicial nominees without any regard whatever to the nominee's race, gender, religion, or ethnic origin. And the Senate has gone on to confirm those Clinton nominees--269 of them, up until today. Should Susan Oki Mollway be confirmed, the number will be 270 judges. Indeed, according to statistics compiled by the liberal judicial watchdog group, the Alliance for Justice, no fewer than 70 of these nominees were women, 42 were African Americans, 13 were Hispanics, and 4 were Asian Americans. These figures do not include the more than 235 Department of Justice and White House nominees--non-judicial nominees, if you will--approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee whom Republicans have confirmed for President Clinton. 
Anyone can cite individual isolated examples of unexpedited consideration but I flatly reject that these amount to what my colleague called a `disturbing pattern' of `ethnic and gender bias.' I do not think it would be appropriate for me at this point to discuss why each of his examples fails to support his point. Suffice it for me to say here that members of the Judiciary Committee are well aware that many nominees lack the support of home-State Senators, have a record that raises serious questions of character and judicial temperament, or have some other background difficulty that necessitated further investigation. 
I do not believe it does the Senate well, nor do I believe it does the Committee well, to engage in this sort of `wedge' politics. I hope my colleagues will refrain from such unproductive attacks. They are not only unproductive, they are unfair and, in my opinion, somewhat vicious. 
To suggest that the Committee or this majority is motivated by improper bias of any kind is simply wrong, and the record shows it. In addition, I will not allow such accusations to force us to abdicate the Senate's responsibility to ensure that the Senate adequately and fully discharges its constitutional advise and consent function for nominees for life-tenured judicial office. 
Having said all of this, I would like to lend my support for Susan Oki Mollway and to the distinguished Senators from Hawaii, both of whom I admire very much. I have to say that the distinguished Senator from Hawaii, Senator Inouye, has known Susan Oki Mollway virtually all her life. He has known her father, who also, likewise, is a hero. 
I examined her record, and, yes, there are things that naturally raised the hackles of some on the committee, but I have to say that she is an extremely intelligent women with an extremely well balanced background. I have to say that I believe she ought to be supported here on the floor today, and I intend to do everything I can to support her. 
Susan Oki Mollway was nominated for district judge from the District of Hawaii on January 7 of last year. I personally apologize to my two colleagues for this having taken so long to get to the floor. She has a B.A. and an M.A. in English from the University of Hawaii. That alone is pretty impressive, but she received her J.D. cum laude from Harvard University in 1981. That is also pretty impressive. 
Currently, she is a partner with the Honolulu firm of Cades, Schutte, Fleming and Wright. She also currently serves as director to the Hawaii Justice Foundation and the Hawaii Women's Legal Foundation, both unpaid positions, organizations that focus on local issues and/or raise money for charitable organizations. In addition, she was the recipient of the Outstanding Woman Lawyer of the Year award in 1987. 
She is an exceptional person--in my opinion, one who should be able to fill this position in a way that will bring honor to the Federal courts. I hope that is true. I have no way of being absolutely sure, but I am relying on the recommendations of our two colleagues from Hawaii and the extensive background investigation the Committee performed on Susan Oki Mollway. I hope our colleagues in the Senate will support her. I believe she is worthy of support. 
I think my colleagues know that I take these nominations very seriously. We look at them very seriously. We do extensive background checks and investigations, as did our friends on the other side when they were in control of the committee. I try to be down the line, down the middle, and I try to make sure people are treated fairly. Naturally, I resent it when somebody indicates in any conversation that there may be some impropriety or improper bias involved with regard to some of the nominees who have been or are currently pending before the Senate and/or the Judiciary Committee. 
I am very concerned, as Judiciary Committee chairman, that we do our jobs well. I am very concerned that we do them in a way that is fair. I am very concerned that we get the best people we can on the Federal bench. After all, these are lifetime appointments. It is often said that Federal judges are the `closest thing to God' in this life because they have so much power, and once they are there, you really can't get rid of them. They are not really politically accountable or directly accountable to the American people because they don't have to stand for reelection, which I think is a very good thing because that keeps the Federal judicial system above politics, hopefully, or at least less involved in politics than any other branch of our Government. I think the judiciary has served our country well. I have seen great liberal judges and great conservative judges, and I have seen lousy liberal judges and lousy conservative judges on the Federal bench. Ideology isn't necessarily the determining factor as to whether a judge will serve in the best possible manner as a member of the Federal bench. 
So it is important that we find people of high caliber, high quality, high ethics, with good work habits, that are honest and decent, to fill these positions. I believe Susan Oki Mollway fits all of those categories. 
I yield the floor.  
Mr. INOUYE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as an original cosponsor of S. 1379, the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act, I am very pleased that the Senate is about to pass this important piece of legislation. I congratulate Senator DeWine and Senator Leahy for their bipartisan effort in drafting a bill which addresses the legitimate concerns of federal agencies which will be subject to this legislation, while at the same time ensuring that the original intent and purpose of the law is carried out. Passage of the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act will facilitate the speedy gathering and release of documents in the possession of the government which relate to the persecution of, and theft of assets from, the many millions of victims of Nazi atrocities. 
Our government has an obligation to locate, and make public, documents in the government's possession which shed light on Nazi war criminals, their nefarious allies, and their crimes. Over the fifty-three years since the defeat of Germany and its cohorts, and the discovery of the atrocities committed in the name of Naziism, we have learned a great deal about the organization, operation, and financial structure of that regime. However, recent revelations concerning the acts of certain Swiss banks in the laundering of Holocaust victims' assets show us how much more there is to learn. 
By passing this bill, we are providing a means of access to information that will be of invaluable assistance in providing answers to those seeking to learn about the past. But just as importantly, by studying that information and learning the lessons of history, we can help ensure that such actions will never be repeated in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate my home team, the Utah Jazz, on their remarkable season and thrilling playoff run. For the second straight year, the Jazz won the NBA's Western Conference in impressive fashion and lost a well-fought series to the Chicago Bulls by the slimmest of margins. 
As one of the team's most faithful fans, I share the heartache of the players and coaches, who came so close to reaching their goal only to fall one point short of a seventh game. However, I am confident that Jazz fans everywhere share my feelings of pride in the season that these gutsy, tenacious players gave us to enjoy. 
To those players who believe that professional sports have become just another business with big salaries and product licenses, I will simply say that the Utah Jazz personify everything that is good about the game of basketball. The Jazz believe in teamwork, pure fundamentals, courage, and determination. 
Basketball fans throughout the country have become enamored with the Jazz and their old-fashioned work ethic. Often facing younger and more athletic teams, the Jazz have relied on their trademark discipline and teamwork to overwhelm their opponents. 
However, it is not just the Jazz's triumphs on the basketball court that are spectacular--such as winning over 76 percent of this season's games and compiling an 11-3 mark through the Western Conference playoffs, punctuated by a 4-game sweep of the formidable Los Angeles Lakers. The examples they set for our youth off the court are just as noteworthy. Many of the players give of their time, talents and money to better our community. They have been unafraid to display to the world that you can be a superstar and a good citizen, friend, and father. Our team is made up of high caliber individuals. They have worked hard, believed in each other, and have displayed tremendous poise and dignity throughout a challenging season. 
Once again this year, Utahns were privileged to watch the timeless duo of John Stockton and Karl Marlone work their magic. 
By flawlessly executing there signature pick-and-roll time and time again, these two basketball legends led the Jazz to a 62-win season that classified as the best record in the NBA this season and included 2 wins and no losses in match-up with the Bulls. In fact, if you take into account every game in which the Jazz and the Bulls faced 
one another this year, each team won four. So, the way I see it, the Bulls win in Game 6 achieved a draw in the Jazz-Bulls rivalry for the entire '97-'98. 
I do want to congratulate the Chicago Bulls on another fine season and a tremendous victory in the Finals. My hat is off to Michael Jordan and the Bulls for a spectacular playoff performance. Michael Jordan's skills and superb performances will be applauded for many years to come. No one can dispute that this team is comprised of very talented players who have excited and entertained basketball fans around the world for most of this decade. 
Years from now, as I look back at this Jazz team, I will fondly remember this remarkable season and the joy they brought to all their fans. It has been my pleasure to attend many games at the Delta Center and to join in the cheering and excitement. It has been my honor to represent the state with the classiest team in the NBA. 
The Utah Jazz would not have been able to achieve such success without the contributions and talents of some very key people. I commend head coach Jerry Sloan and his staff for the gritty, hard-nosed approach that they have given to the team. Coach Sloan never gave excuses when things went awry and always expected his players to give their best efforts, every minute of every game. He has the complete respect of all of his players--the greatest accolade a coach can receive. 
Jazz Owner Larry Miller knew what it would mean for Utah to have its own NBA basketball team. He enabled the Jazz to stay in Salt Lake City. He has displayed great leadership and commitment to the team and the community throughout his many years of owning this team. 
Team President Frank Layden has always encouraged, motivated, and commanded respect from the players and the community. His enthusiasm creates community spirit and strengthens conviction in our team. 
And Scott Layden's savvy, and superb sense of what makes a champion has continued to propel the Jazz to greater heights. He has always conducted the business of the Jazz with professionalism, and is one of the most highly-respected front office people in the league. 
To the players, I offer my congratulations on an exceptional season. Each of these fine individuals--Karl, John, Jeff, Byron, Greg, Antoine, Shandon, Howard, Chris, Adam, Greg, and Jacque--contributed greatly to the success of this team. On behalf of Jazz fans everywhere, I thank you all for taking us on yet another memorable journey to the NBA Finals. Let's do it gain next year. 
Mr. President, I am proud of the Jazz and the unique spirit of unity that they have brought to the state of Utah. Win or lose, they act with professionalism and class both on and off the court. They are champions in every sense of the word.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce some housekeeping amendments to the Trademark Act. This bill makes a number of technical corrections to the Trademark Act which will clean up the code and make explicit some of the current practices of the Patent and Trademark Office with respect to the trademark protection of matter that is wholly functional. 
I take it as my duty as Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary to try to ensure that the U.S. Code is clear, useful, and up-to-date. These housekeeping amendments will help clarify the law in useful ways, and I hope my colleagues will support this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Trademark Law Treaty Implementation Act of 1998. This legislation makes necessary changes in our domestic trademark law and procedures to ensure that we are in compliance when we ratify the treaty, which appears more likely this year than previously. The Trademark Law Treaty was done and signed at Geneva in October of 1994, and entered into force in 1996. 
The obligations under the Trademark Law Treaty legislation will require some relatively minor changes to U.S. trademark practice, but will bring significant improvements in the trademark practices of a number of important countries around the world in which U.S. trademark owners seek protection. The required changes will eliminate complexities and simplify the process of obtaining, renewing, and managing trademark assets for American firms marketing their products and services around the world. 
Countries around the world have a number of varying requirements for filing trademark applications, effecting changes of ownership of trademark registrations, and other procedures associated with managing trademark assets. These differences cause considerable aggravation and expense to trademark owners seeking to protect their marks around the world. Many of these procedures and requirements imposed by foreign countries are non-substantive and highly technical. In addition, many of these requirements in the various procedures of foreign trademark offices impose very significant cost burdens, both in official fees to be paid to local trademark offices, as well as agent's fees for fulfilling the various requirements. For example, many countries require that signatures on applications for powers of attorney be notarized, authenticated, and legalized. This very expensive and time consuming procedure is prohibited under the Treaty in all cases except where the registrant is surrendering a registration. 
The Treaty eliminates these conflicting and expensive practices by setting forth a list of maximum requirements which a member State can impose for various actions. Specifically, the Treaty sets forth maximum requirements for: the contents of a trademark application; the content of a power of attorney; the elements necessary for an application to receive a filing date; a request to record a change in the name or address of a trademark owner; and, a request to renew a trademark registration. These requirements are implemented through the adoption of model forms for trademark applicants and owners to use which must be accepted by every member State. While a member need not impose all of the requirements or elements listed, it cannot demand the inclusion of any additional requirements or elements in respect of a particular action. 
There are several other guarantees mandated by the Treaty that will benefit trademark applicants and owners. Under the Treaty, countries will have to register and protect service marks, as well as goods marks, an important consideration to the U.S. service economy, which has many valuable service marks, such as Marriott and American Airlines. Applicants will be able to file for protection under multiple classifications for goods and services, which will mature into multiple class registrations. No longer will trademark owners be forced to make a separate filing for each power of attorney; one general power will suffice. Member countries are precluded from considering goods or services as being similar to each other simply on the ground that they appear in the same class of the NICE classification. Moreover, a request to change the name or address of a trademark owner or a request to correct a mistake in a trademark registration may not be refused without giving the trademark owner an opportunity to comment. 
As I indicated, the Trademark Law Treaty Implementation Act of 1998 makes only minor changes in our domestic trademark law. These changes include: the elimination of the requirement for a statement of the manner in which a mark is used or intended to be used in connection with the goods or services identified in the application; the elimination of the requirement that the applicant verify an application; the adoption of a grace period of at least six months for the filing of a renewal application; the elimination of a declaration or evidence concerning the use of a mark in connection with the filing of a renewal application; and, the elimination of a requirement to file a copy of the actual assignment document as a condition for recording the assignment of a trademark registration. 
This bill will also harmonize and simplify the procedural requirements under the Trademark Act of 1946. Sections 8 and 9 will be amended to establish a similar period of one year prior to the end of the applicable time period, along with a grace period of six months after that period, for filing both affidavits of use and renewal applications. While it separates the ten-year affidavit of use from the renewal application, as required by the Treaty, the bill permits them both to be filed during the same time period which will benefit trademark applicants. 
The Trademark Law Treaty Implementation Act of 1998 will help American companies protect their trademark assets in markets around the world thereby facilitating their ability to compete. At the same time, the changes it makes in U.S. trademark law are made in a manner that will assist American trademark owners protect their marks in this country. 
Mr. President, I hope my colleagues will support this legislation which is so important to American trademark owners. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on August 31, 1995, some 1019 days ago, the head of the Department of Justice's Criminal Division, Assistant Attorney General Jo Ann Harris, resigned. Since that time, the Department of Justice has lacked a confirmed leader for this critical post. Indeed, the Acting Assistant Attorney General has had to recuse himself from one of the most important matters to come before the Department: the Clinton Administration's fund-raising abuses. The failure of the Clinton Administration to fill this crucial position has had, in my mind, a serious impact both on the performance of the Criminal Division and the credibility of its decisions. Over two and a half years later, I am glad to support the nomination of James K. Robinson to be Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division. This nomination was reported out of the Judiciary Committee in April by a unanimous vote, and I believe should receive the support of all Senators. 
The Criminal Division represents the front line of the federal government's commitment to fight crime. We rely on the Criminal Division to enforce over 900 federal statutes and to develop enforcement policies to be implemented by the 94 U.S. Attorneys around the country. Within the division are sections that carry out national responsibilities crucial to protecting our citizens and property, including: Asset Forfeiture/Money Laundering, Child Exploitation and Obscenity, Fraud, Computer Crime and Intellectual Property, Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, Organized Crime and Racketeering, Public Integrity, Terrorism and Violent Crime, and the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force. The importance of each of these sections cannot be overstated. 
I believe that this nominee is up to this demanding task. James Robinson has compiled an impressive record of achievement. Following graduation from Wayne State University Law School, he clerked on the Michigan Supreme Court and then for Judge George Edwards of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. He served with distinction as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan during the Carter Administration. Both before and after his service as U.S. Attorney, Mr. Robinson was a member of the Detroit law firm of Honigman Miller Schwartz & Cohn, first as an associate and then as a partner. Since 1993, he has been Dean and Professor of Law at his alma mater, Wayne State University Law School. Finally, Mr. Robinson has served on and often chaired numerous bar and civic associations, many of which related to his expertise in the law of evidence. He will need all of this experience and more to fulfill such a demanding position. 
One of the most important duties assigned the head of the Criminal Division is to advise the Attorney General on the appointment of independent counsels. In my mind, Attorney General Reno was very poorly served by the Criminal Division over the past year while considering whether to appoint an independent counsel related to the fund raising efforts made by the President and Vice President in conjunction with the 1996 elections. While I was pleased to see the Department secure the indictments of Johnny Chung and Charlie Trie, I believe both the Division and the Attorney General misapplied the independent counsel statute by taking into consideration factors which the law does not allow. There are many both inside and outside Congress, including this Senator, who believe that the statute has many flaws, but so long as the law is on the books it must be applied fairly and consistently. This Department of Justice has not done so, and I place a large part of the blame on the Criminal Division. 
Congress has responded to the unacceptable levels of crime by increasing the Department of Justice's budget: in fact, the Department's budget has skyrocketed since 1994, rising from under 11 billion dollars in FY 1994 to over 20 billion dollars in FY 1998. However, I am concerned about the decline in federal prosecutions in several critical areas despite this increased funding. First, at a time when the administration is calling for more gun control, I am concerned that the Department of Justice is not adequately enforcing current gun laws. The annual number of weapons and firearms prosecutions brought by this Administration has plummeted. For example, federal weapons and firearms prosecutions are down 18.7 % since 1992. 
More importantly, I am concerned that the Department of Justice is not enforcing current laws meant to punish gun-toting criminals. Specifically, the number of prosecutions made under Project Triggerlock has collapsed. Initiated by the Bush Administration, Project Triggerlock targets federal prosecution and tough federal sentences on the worst violent offenders committing crimes with guns. In its first year, FY 1992, the program worked remarkably well: 4,353 federal cases were brought against 7,048 defendants for violations of federal law involving the use of a firearm. Yet, the number of these cases has fallen throughout the Clinton Administration, and in FY 1997 the Department of Justice reported only 2,844 cases under Project Triggerlock, a stunning 34.6% decrease since 1992. Through the effective use of federal powers and resources, U.S. Attorneys can greatly assist state and local law enforcement in keeping the most dangerous offenders off the streets. Unfortunately, this extremely effective program has lost priority in the Clinton Administration. 
I have been concerned about the performance of the Criminal Division and the United States Attorneys in a number of additional areas over the past several years. Whether it has been the intentional failure of U.S. Attorneys in California to enforce Indian gaming laws, the unfortunate surrender of our borders to drug trafficking, the recent decision to distort the Controlled Substances Act to allow doctors to use drugs to assist suicides, or the repeal of a memorandum by Attorney General Richard Thornburgh which ensured federal prosecutors did not settle with charging defendants with lesser violations while more serious offenses were ignored, the administration's crime fighting decisions have, in some areas, not met the high standard the public deserves. These concerns, however, do not diminish my recognition of the work of the thousands of federal law enforcement officials who ably carry out the responsibility of enforcing our federal laws. 
As I pointed out at his confirmation hearing, Mr. Robinson has been nominated to a position of great trust. If confirmed, he will play a key role in advising the nation's chief law enforcement officer on matters of serious national concern. Mr. Robinson assured the Judiciary Committee that although he naturally would feel loyalty to the administration which selected him, he would stand above politics and serve the public. 
During his confirmation hearing, I raised many of these important issues with Mr. Robinson. Although he was not in a position to have formed concrete opinions on some issues which have been debated between the Congress and the administration, I was heartened by his promise to work with the Congress and to bring fresh approaches to tough issues. By moving this nomination without further delay, the Congress will ensure that the Criminal Division once again will have the leadership it sorely needs to play a leading and effective role at the vanguard of federal law enforcement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise once again to address the issue of the constitutionality of the Commerce bill, as modified by the floor substitute. 
A buzz seems to be in the air that perhaps the pending substitute bill might actually pass. 
What seems to be forgotten--or ignored--however, is there are serious questions surrounding the bill's constitutionality. In a rush to do good, in the haste to pass legislation that limits youth cigarette smoking, some have either ignored the constitutional problems or deluded themselves that no such problems exist. 
In 1845, Justice Joseph Story complained `how easily men satisfy themselves that the Constitution is exactly what they wish it to be.' Well, the courts will not ignore the Constitution. They will scrutinize the legislation according to applicable case law and constitutional doctrine and, most assuredly, will strike down as unconstitutional pertinent provisions of the bill. 
So what will we have accomplished? Major portions of this bill will fail. Teen smoking may not decrease. Or, even worse, from a public health standpoint, the bill will be tied up for a decade or more in litigation; no national tobacco program could be implemented until the litigation is resolved; and more and more teens will start and continue smoking. Many of our youth, naturally, will die prematurely--at least 10 million kids--while this is litigated, assuming it passes in its current form, as unconstitutional as it is. There will be at least 10 years of litigation, and another 10 million kids will become hooked on smoking, a high percentage of whom will probably die prematurely as a result of that. 
We must, as a body, address the constitutional concerns raised by the tobacco legislation, and we should not evade this issue. 
Mr. President, I want to make clear that I am a strong advocate of legislation that will reduce youth consumption of tobacco products. I also want to make it abundantly clear that I am a vociferous critic of the tobacco industry. But should our disdain for tobacco and our desire to help young people prevent us from crafting an efficacious bill that meets constitutional requisites? 
We must heed Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., who in 1904 observed that it must always be `remembered that legislatures are the ultimate guardians of the liberties and welfare of the people in quite as great degree as the court.' So we must act as guardians of the Constitution. Our oaths of office require it. The American people demand no less of us. 
The Commerce bill raises a number of serious constitutional issues which involve the following: No. 1, the first amendment; 2, the prohibition of bills of attainder contained in article I; 3, the takings clause; and 4, the due process clause. Allow me to address each of these issues in the order I listed them. 
Let me first turn to the first amendment issue. 
The Commerce bill unconstitutionally restricts tobacco product advertising, one, by apparently enacting the August 1996 FDA rule, and, two, by imposing additional restrictions that go beyond these regulations through a so-called `voluntary 
protocol' modeled after my original tobacco plan. 
Section 103 of the floor vehicle deems the FDA rule to be `lawful and to have been lawfully promulgated under the authority of this chapter.' The meaning of this is unclear, but the language will probably be interpreted as codifying the rule. 
As to the protocol section of the Commerce bill, one must remember that it is intended to be voluntary. It is null and void without the participation of the tobacco companies and the other parties to the June 20, 1997, settlement. 
Both of these restrictions violate the first amendment and the Supreme Court's cases defining commercial speech. Moreover, the `counter-advertising' provisions--the `coerced speech doctrine'--of the bill are subject to first amendment challenges unless consented to by the tobacco companies, who have said they will not consent to this Commerce Committee bill. 
Let me discuss these concerns in more detail. 
On August 28, 1996, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration published a rule which restricted tobacco advertising. These limitations include: No outdoor advertising for cigarettes and smokeless tobacco, including billboards, posters, or placards, within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of any public playground, elementary school, or secondary school; other advertising must be in black text on a white background only, in FDA-approved publications; labeling and advertising in audio format must be in words only, with no music or sound effects, and in video format in static black and white text only, on a white background; the sale of any item--other than cigarettes or smokeless tobacco--or service, which bears the brand name, logo, et cetera, identical or similar to any brand of cigarettes or smokeless tobacco is prohibited; offering any gift or item--other than cigarettes or smokeless tobacco--to any person purchasing cigarettes or smokeless tobacco is prohibited; and sponsoring any athletic, musical, or other social or cultural event is prohibited. 
In April 1997, the U.S. District Court in Greensboro, NC, while upholding the FDA's general jurisdiction over tobacco, held that the FDA did not have statutory authority to regulate advertising. The first amendment issues, therefore, were not addressed by the court. An appeal is pending in the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. Oral arguments were heard earlier this week. 
These advertising restrictions propose to be codified in a freestanding FDA regulation of the tobacco section of the Commerce bill. The Commerce bill also broadens these restrictions, and, much like the original Hatch bill, it places these broader restrictions in a voluntary yet binding contract termed the `protocol.' 
Pursuant to the protocol, the tobacco companies waive their first amendment rights in exchange for the settlement of existing suits and the scaled-back civil liability limitations--in the original floor vehicle, the `soft' cap on annual payments--that is, $6.5 billion per year. These modest civil liability limitations may be nullified if the Gregg amendment is adopted. 
As the bill currently stands, the proposed incentives for the tobacco industry to agree voluntarily are largely illusory, 
hence the explanation for the recent withdrawal by the industry from the June 20 settlement. So there is no longer any voluntary consent protocol. Private parties may waive their constitutional rights. I cite with particularity the Snepp v. United States 1980 case. We can only assume that without this waiver, parties will tie up the legislation in the courts for years. I don't think there is any question about it. 
The Supreme Court has consistently held that constitutional rights may be waived provided that such waiver is knowing, voluntary and intelligent. 
[See Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67, 95 (1972); D. H. Overmyer Co., Inc. Of Ohio v. Frick Co., 405 U.S. 174, 187 (1972).] Of course, the tobacco companies have now withdrawn from the settlement, so no waiver can occur unless they rejoin the negotiations. 
So, the tobacco industry will not enter into the protocols and we must analyze the bill's constitutionality on this fact. With this bill, we are not discussing restrictions which will be agreed to. Hence, the constitutionality is the problem. 
Because the advertising restrictions affect only commercial speech, they are entitled to less First Amendment protection than, let's say, political speech. [E.G., Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Service Comm'n, 447 U.S. 557 (1980).] Yet, according to the 1980 Supreme Court decision in Central Hudson v. Public Service Commission, the government still bears the burden of justifying a restriction on commercial speech. I also cite, Rubin v. Coors Brewing Co. [, 115 S.Ct. 1585, 1592 (1995).] According to Central Hudson, the Supreme Court has enunciated a four-part test governing the validity of commercial speech restrictions: 1. Whether the commercial speech at issue is protected by the First Amendment, whether it concerns a lawful activity and is not misleading; and 2. Whether the asserted governmental interest in restricting it is substantial; If both inquiries yield positive answers, then; 3. Does the restriction directly advance the governmental interest asserted; and 4. Is the restriction not more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest? 
In the 1996 case of 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, [116 S. Ct. 1495 (1996)], the Supreme Court heightened the protection that the Central Hudson test guarantees to commercial speech. It makes clear that an effectively total prohibition on `the dissemination of truthful, non-misleading commercial messages for reasons unrelated to the preservation of a fair bargaining process' will be subject to a stricter review by the courts than a regulation designed `to protect consumers from misleading, deceptive, or aggressive sales practices.' 
The proposed restrictions would fall with in the scope of the first prong of the test because, presumably, the advertising is lawful and not misleading. They would also meet the second prong because protecting the public health, safety, and welfare (particularly when the public group being protected is comprised of children) is a substantial interest. 
So, a court in analyzing the constitutionality of the advertising restrictions will be left to question seriously whether the third and fourth prong of the Central Hudson test has been met. In other words, the questions facing the Congress and a future court are whether the government could carry its burden of proving the advertising restrictions will directly advance the reduction of youth smoking and that the restrictions are not more extensive than necessary to accomplish this objective. 
Because `broad prophylactic rules in the area of free speech are suspect,' courts rigorously apply the third and fourth factors of the Central Hudson test. The Supreme Court noted in Edenfield v. Farre [507 U.S. 761, 777 (1993),] that as to the third and fourth factors `[p]recision of regulation must be the touchstone in an area so closely touching our most precious freedoms'. 
Although Congress may reasonably believe that the severe curtailment of tobacco product advertising will impact youth smoking, that fact alone will not satisfy the government's burden of providing a direct advancement of its interest. As the Second Circuit held recently, to satisfy this burden, the government must `marshall . . . empirical evidence' supporting its `assumptions,' and must show that its putative interest is advanced `to a material degree' by the restriction on speech. [Bad Frog Brewery, Inc. v. New York State Liquor Authority, 134 F.3d 87, 98, 100 (2d Cir. 1998).] 
This burden is a heavy burden. 
It is unlikely that there is uncontroverted `empirical evidence' proving, for example, that prohibiting sponsorship of athletic, social, or cultural events under the brand name of a tobacco product, or that prohibiting advertising without notice to the FDA in any medium not pre-approved by the FDA would have a material impact on youth smoking. The Senate has held more than 30 hearings on the tobacco settlement, but have we been provided any such `empirical evidence?' And the answer is `no.' 
But, even if the government could carry its burden of proving direct advancement of its interest, it cannot survive the fourth prong of the Central Hudson test and prove that the FDA regulations are not more extensive than necessary. 
The Supreme Court has found that a restriction on commercial speech is not sufficiently narrow, and is, thus, unconstitutional, when there are available to the government 
`alternatives that would prove less intrustive to the First Amendment's protections for commercial speech.' [Rubin v. Coors Brewing Co., 514 U.S. 476, 491 (1995).] 
There are obvious regulatory and legislative alternatives here. 
First, the entire premise of the Commerce bill is that other regulations that do not impact First Amendment freedoms will advance the government's interest in reducing youth smoking. These include (1) enforcement of the current access restrictions, public education and counter-advertising projects (2) price increases, and (3) cessation programs. 
For example consider the 44 Liquormart case I mentioned earlier, [116 S. Ct. at 1510], which held that liquor price advertising restrictions failed Central Hudson's fourth factor, since the government could have accomplished its objective through increased taxation, limits on purchases, and educational campaigns. 
Moreover, any assertion by the government that non-speech alternatives would be ineffective in reducing youth smoking would not be viewed favorably by the courts. 
In publishing final regulations promulgated under the ADAMHA Reorganization Act of 1992, that's alcohol, drug abuse, mental health administration, an act which conditioned federal grants on state enforcement of tobacco access restrictions, Department of Health and Human Services--the federal agency with expertise on the matter--proclaimed that `aggressive and consistent enforcement of states are likely to reduce substantially illegal tobacco sales.' [61 Fed. Reg. 1492 (Jan. 19, 1996).] 
Likewise, the Surgeon General stated that the ADAMHA Amendments would `provide significant new leverage for increased enforcement of laws to reduce sales of tobacco products to youth.' I might add, this was included in `A Report of the Surgeon General: Preventing Tobacco Use Among Young People,' 254 (1994). 
In addition, other measures directed at youth contained in the Hatch bill, but not the Commerce bill--such as imposing criminal penalties on purchases or possession of cgiarettes by underage persons, or making entitlement to a driver's license dependent on a record without such offenses--would clearly advance the government's interest more directly than would advertising restrictions. 
Finally, the Commerce bill's Protocol restrictions, if they are somehow imposed without consent, would work an even more clear violation of the First Amendment. 
The Protocol restrictions are no less broad than the voluntary restrictions in the Proposed June 20 settlement. And nearly every First Amendment scholar who has testified before Congress has concluded that such restrictions would violate the First Amendment if enacted unilaterally. I refer my colleagues to the testimony of Laurence H. Tribe, who testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee last July that any legislation containing the Proposed Resolution's advertising restrictions would be `extremely problematic under the First Amendment.' 
I also refer my fellow Senators to the testimony of Floyd Abrams, one of the leading legal experts in the first amendment privileges and rights, before the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 10, 1998, where he asserted that any act containing the proposed resolution's advertising restrictions would be `destined to be held unconstitutional' under Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, [117 S. Ct. 2329,2346 (1997)]. 
Now, let me next discuss the counteradvertising provisions. 
Another first amendment problem plaguing this bill is that, if enacted, the bill would also violate the U.S. Constitution insofar as the `counteradvertising' provisions would require the tobacco industry to fund directly political and commercial speech with which it disagrees. 
This violates the so-called `coerced speech' doctrine. 
Section 221 of the Commerce bill would directly require the tobacco industry to fund a tobacco-free education program, which would award grants to public and nonprofit, private entities to carry out public informational and educational activities designed to reduce the use of tobacco products. 
Section 1172 would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to disburse funds appropriated for the tobacco industry to be used `to discourage the use of tobacco products by individuals and to encourage those who use such products to quit.' 
Now, I do not question these objectives or the motives of those who drafted these restrictions. They certainly had the best interests of the public at heart in doing so. 
Nevertheless, the Commerce Committee bill would--in these two separate instances--compel the tobacco industry to directly fund political and commercial speech to which they may be opposed, in derogation of the first amendment rights to be free from compelled speech and compelled association. Compare this to a situation where speech is subsidized by Government, but the revenues come from the General Treasury. In this situation, there would be no constitutional violation. But the bill is constitutionally infirm and violates the Constitution. 
As the United States Supreme Court has held, the first amendment prohibits Government from `requiring a speaker to associate with speech with which it may disagree.' That is Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Public Utilities Commission of California [475 U.S. 15 (1986)]. Government-compelled funding of objectionable speech infringes upon both the right of free speech and the right of free association. [Id. at 20-21] 
At issue in the Pacific Gas case was a State order that required the Pacific Gas and Electric Company to disseminate the views of one of its regulatory opponents. In finding that such an order violated the first amendment, the Supreme Court held that `for corporations, as for individuals, the choice to speak includes within it the choice of what not to say. . . . Were the Government freely able to compel corporate speakers to propound messages with which they disagree, this protection of the first amendment would be empty.' 
I refer my colleagues to Abood v. Detroit Board of Education [431 U.S. 209, 234-35 & n.31], a 1977 case, where the Court held that Government-compelled union dues may not be used for ideological purposes. 
Various Federal courts of appeals, including the Third, Seventh and Ninth Circuit Courts of Appeal, have also held that the freedom of speech includes the right not to be compelled to render financial support for other speech, especially when the views expressed are contrary to one's own. These cases include Cal-Almond, Inc. v. U.S. Department of Agriculture [14 F. 3d 429, 434-35 (9th Cir. 1993)], U.S. v. Frame [885 F. 2d 1119, 1132-33 (3rd Cir. 1989)], and Central Illinois Light Company v. Citizens Utility Board [827 F. 2d 1169 (7th Cir. 1987)]. 
This right to be free from compelled funding of objectionable speech is hardly a new development in the law. 
As early as 200 years ago, Thomas Jefferson declared that `to compel a man to furnish contributions of money for the propagation of opinions which he disbelieves is sinful and tyrannical.' [See Abood, 431 U.S. at 235 n.31.] 
Moreover, as recently as last year, the Supreme Court reiterated that the protections of the first amendment are called into play whenever Government seeks to `require speakers to repeat an objectionable message out of their own mouths, or require them to use their own property to convey an antagonistic ideological message. . ..' That is Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliot, Inc. [117 S. Ct. 2130, 2139 (1977)], a 1997 case decided last year. 
Thus, the Commerce bill--by essentially forcing tobacco manufacturers to finance an advertising campaign--could be found to infringe on their rights to be free from compelled speech and compelled association. Unless heightened legal strictures are first met, the Commerce bill may not constitutionally require the industry to fund antitobacco speech. 
Keep in mind, this is a legal industry. As bad as it is, as much harm as it does, it is still legal. We are unwilling to ban this industry and to force these companies to leave our country because we have approximately 50 million smokers in this country who are hooked on cigarettes. And it has always been approved as a legal business through all of these years. So these constitutional points are important points, in spite of the fact that we may despise what these companies do. 
In order for the `counter-advertising' provisions of the Commerce bill to pass constitutional muster, there must be a `narrowly tailored means of serving a compelling State interest.' [See Pacific Gas, 475 U.S. at 19] 
Although the Federal Government may have a `compelling State interest' in reducing the health hazards associated with smoking, the Commerce bill addresses that concern with a broadside approach that is far from narrowly tailored, and which unnecessarily tramples on important first amendment rights. 
The lack of `narrow tailoring' is most evident from the fact that Congress has available to it a whole host of alternative methods to encourage and finance antitobacco speech that would not impinge on any constitutional concerns. 
For example, Congress could provide tax incentives to members of the mass media in exchange for their cooperation in supporting counter-advertising. Or Congress could condition the receipt of certain Federal funds--that is educational and research grants--on the requirement that recipients promote measures to reduce tobacco use. Or Congress could even directly subsidize antitobacco advertising through the Department of Health and Human Services, provided that all such funding was drawn from taxpayers `generally'--and not exacted from the tobacco industry in particular. I refer my colleagues to the Supreme Court's opinion in U.S. v. Frame [885 F. 2d 119, 1132-33 (3d Cir.)], a 1989 case, which emphasized the distinction between `money from the general tax fund' and money from `a fund earmarked for the dissemination of a particular message associated with a particular group.' Should this bill become law, a Federal court would have to conclude that instead of choosing any one of these constitutionally permissible methods of funding counter-advertising, the Congress will have adopted a scheme that unnecessarily infringes upon the first amendment rights of the tobacco industry. 
Let me discuss bill of attainder, takings, and due process issues raised by the Commerce bill. 
The Commerce bill would impose large annual payments on these tobacco product manufacturers that enter into a voluntary protocol. 
Keep in mind, they have said they are not going to enter into a voluntary protocol if the McCain bill is the bill that passes. But let's assume otherwise. 
The first six annual payments are to be made regardless of sales or profits. The bill would also provide for a $10 billion up-front payment. 
Any attempt to impose the Commerce bill's payment scheme on an involuntary basis would be subjected to legal challenge under at least three independent constitutional provisions--the Bill of Attainder Clause, the Takings Clause, and the Due Process Clause of the Constitution. 
The implementation of the `look-back' penalties--if the industry is without fault--raises the same constitutional concerns. 
The Comprehensive Tobacco Resolution agreed to between the tobacco companies and the State attorneys general contains a `look-back' provision, whereby, if prescribed goals for reducing teen smoking rates in future years are not achieved, the tobacco companies would be subject to specified monetary liabilities. 
The Commerce bill imposes greater `look-back' liabilities upon the tobacco companies--amounting to more than $5 billion per year--without the consent of the industry. Thus, the bill would impose multibillion dollar liabilities upon tobacco companies--over and apart from the ongoing payments the companies would be called upon to make as part of the resolution. 
Even if the companies fully complied with all measures imposed by the resolution to prevent teen smoking, they would be subject to the penalties without any showing of illegal or wrongful conduct whatever. 
Let me discuss why certain provisions in this bill violate the prohibition of bills of attainder contained in Article I, Section 9, Clause 3 of our Constitution. This provision simply reads, `No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.' 
What is a bill of attainder? The Bill of Attainder Clause prohibits the imposition of a punishment by Congress without a judicial trial. That was decided as early as 1866 in the Cummings v. Missouri case [71 U.S. 277 (1986)]. The clause reflects the framers' belief that `the legislative branch is not so well suited as politically independent judges and juries to the task of ruling upon blameworthiness.' That is U.S. v. Brown [381 U.S. 437. 445 (1965)], a 1965 case. Legislation violates the Bill of Attainder Clause if it singles out a specific group for unique treatment imposing punitive liability upon that group without a trial. 
I refer my colleagues to Selective Service System v. Minnesota Public Interest Research Group, [468 U.S. 841, 846 (1984)], and also generally to Nixon v. Administrator of General Service [433 U.S. 425, 469-475 (1977).] 
In sum, a general definition of what constitutes a bill of attainder demonstrates that a bill of attainder prohibited by the Constitution is composed of two elements: first, an element of punishment inflicted by some authority other than a judicial authority; and second, an element of specificity, that is, a singling out of an individual or identifiable group for the infliction of the punishment. In other words, a bill of attainder is primarily a legislative act designed to punish an individual or discrete class of individuals without a hearing or a demonstration of fault. 
It is clear that a court would interpret the floor vehicle's penalties as punitive and would thus violate the Bill of Attainder prohibition. 
The so-called `look-back penalties' in the floor vehicle--in other words, in the Commerce bill before this body--which are imposed on the tobacco companies if teen smoking does not meet certain goals for reduction, are subject to constitutional challenge unless they are voluntarily agreed to by the tobacco companies. 
I might add, which, of course, is not the case. The companies have said they will not voluntarily agree to what they consider to be the exhorbitantly punitive bill that is before the Senate at the present time. 
I am talking about even the substitute as brought forward by the distinguished Senator from Arizona. 
I might add that the bill now terms the penalties `surcharges.' But this simply is an attempt to elevate form over substance. No matter how they are termed, these payments are the functional equivalent of fines. Thus, the Supreme Court in United States v. Lovett, [328 U.S. 303 (1946)], held that legislative acts--no matter what there form or what they are called--that apply either to an individual or a discreet class in such a way as to impose punishment without a trial--are bills of attainder prohibited by the Constitution. 
Given what we know--or do not know--about how teens react to advertising, it is possible that even if the tobacco industry does all it can to prevent teen smoking, and teen smoking still will not meet the target, then they are being punished unnecessarily, Moreover, besides the look-back penalties, the floor vehicle contains an additional provision that companies lose their liability cap protection if underage smoking exceeds the targets by a set amount. This is also done without a showing of fault. 
The Bill of Attainder Clause has been invoked by lower courts to invalidate similar punitive economic legislation aimed at particular industries, companies, or individuals. Thus, for example, in SBC Communications, Inc. v. FCC, the District Court struck down provisions of the recently enacted Telecommunications Act, which subjected regional telephone companies to burdensome requirements for entry into the long distance business. [981 F. Supp. 996, 1004 (N.D. Tex 1997).] Because the `Baby Bells' were singled out for unique and economically punishing regulatory treatment--based on an unproved legislative presumption that they were engaged in ongoing anti-competitive practices--the Court held that the provisions violated the Bill of Attainder Clause. 
As another example, in News America Publishing, Inc. v. FCC, the D.C. Circuit invalidated on First Amendment grounds a law that singled out Rupert Murdock for unfavorable treatment. [844 F.2d 800, 813 (D.C. Cir. 1988).] 
Explaining that the `safeguards of a pluralistic system are often absent when the legislative zeros in on a small class of citizens,' the D.C. Circuit found that the challenged provision `strikes at Murdoch with the precision of a laser beam,' and held the provision unconstitutional. `Congress' exclusive focus on a single party clearly implicates values similar to those behind the constitutional proscription of Bill of Attainder.' 
The Supreme Court in Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, [433 U.S. 425, 468-484 (1977)] has indicated that the existence of punishment is dependent upon the circumstances of individual cases. 
A three-part test to determine whether a legislative act is a bill of attainder was developed. One test is that of historical experience under the law of England and our own country the United States. This test involves an analysis of punishment in terms of what traditionally has been regarded as punishment for purposes of bills of attainder--which were used to seize or escheat 
property--and bills of pains and penalties--which were used to deprive individuals of their civil rights. 
A second test is a functional one which takes into account the extent to which any enactment challenged as a bill of attainder furthers any non-punitive purposes underlying it. 
A third test for determining the existence of the punishment element is a motivational one, involving an assessment of the purposes or motives of the legislative authority. 
There can be little doubt that applying the Supreme Court's three-part test would result in the conclusion that the look-back penalties constitute a bill of attainder. Imposing the floor vehicle's payment scheme upon the tobacco industry without its consent would, in effect, be a fine for the tobacco industry's past conduct and would therefore constitute a bill of attainder, even if a due process hearing were held to determine factually whether goals were met or not. 
First, the scheme would single out a discrete group for unique treatment, since the payments would be forced only upon the country's five major tobacco manufacturers. And, second, payments would be imposed by the terms of a congressional decree, not through a trial. 
That these measures are `punitive' would be readily apparent to any court (1) from the huge payments which historically and functionally amount to a deprivation and confiscation of property; and (2) from the legislative record, which is replete with expressions of congressional condemnation of the tobacco industry and, therefore demonstrate a clear motive to punish. Thus, the bill punishes and is directed at a discrete group, that is, the tobacco companies. 
Let me make clear that there is no greater critic of the tobacco industry than Orrin Hatch. 
I have fought them vigorously for most of my career. 
I believe that the tobacco companies have done great harms particularly to the children of this nation. 
They have hidden documents demonstrating the addictive nature of nicotine. 
They have concealed evidence that cigarette smoking is a significant contributor to such diseases as cancer and emphysema. 
Nevertheless, we must put our faith in the judicial process. If wrongs have been committed by the tobacco industry, the courts will reveal and punish them. That specter is what has brought the tobacco companies to the bargaining table. That threat is what caused the tobacco companies to settle with the 40 state attorney generals. That risk is what led the tobacco companies to settle the individual state suits in Mississippi, Florida, Texas, and Minnesota. 
Our task is to pass moderate legislation that implements the settlement and adheres to the Constitution. Passing legislation that amounts to a bill of attainder is a very dangerous precedent.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is my privilege to call to my colleagues' attention the recent announcement by the U.S. Small Business Administration that Ms. Bernadette Martinelli of Park City, Utah, has been named the National Women in Business Advocate for 1998. I am sure all senators will agree that she is well-deserving of this prestigious award. 
In November 1992, Ms. Martinelli founded the Park City Women's Business Network. As the owner of `Blinds of Bern,' she observed that a lack of educational and networking opportunities stifled the entrepreneurial potential for many women in the Park City area. 
Bernadette Martinelli decided to make a difference. In founding the Park City Womens' Business Network, she has brought women small business owners together to meet one another, to share ideas, and to learn techniques for improving productivity. The results have been nothing short of remarkable. These efforts have helped launch the creation and fuel the expansion of many women-owned businesses in Utah. 
Ms. Martinelli's organization also fulfills an important role in the community. Members volunteer their time speaking to high school students about entrepreneurial careers and providing indispensable mentoring programs for interested students. The Park City Womens' Business Network has also established an all-important `Future Entrepreneur' scholarship, awarded annually to a female high school graduate to help her to reach her goal of business ownership. 
Ms. Martinelli has accomplished all of this through great personal sacrifice and perserverance. In the past few years, she found the strength to build her business, establish the networking organization, and to care for her children and her husband who is battling cancer. 
Mr. President, I am proud of Bernadette Martinelli's achievements and grateful for her many contributions to the growth of small businesses in the state of Utah and to the opening of doors and possibilities for the next generation. 
I join with the U.S. Small Business Administration and small business leaders around the nation in congratulating Ms. Martinelli. I ask all Senators to join me in saluting her for this well-earned national honor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield on that point? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. You know, as chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and somebody who has been both a defense lawyer and a plaintiff's lawyer, I have some specific thoughts and first hand experience on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As you have been an attorney who has tried cases on both sides of the issue, you understand very well that without the attorneys in the Castano group, we would not be where we are today with the original settlement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We would not have had a settlement that amounts to $368.5 billion; not anywhere near that amount without those attorneys. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is it your understanding that not one of those plaintiffs has been paid a dime for this case so far? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Many of them have millions of dollars in unpaid fees in this matter. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Isn't it also true a contract between a plaintiff and his attorney is a legally enforceable contract, which Congress should not impair? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If Congress, as it would be doing here, at least as I understand the intent of this amendment, were to interfere retroactively with private contracts, it would be unconstitutional for a variety of reasons; isn't that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. By capping a fee, such an interference is a taking under the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. The Supreme Court cases clearly show that the Federal Government cannot confiscate money or interfere with a lawful contract. Is the Senator aware of that point? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. In addition, the regulation of attorneys' fees properly, at least as I view it, belong in the domain of the States, and such usurpation of State prerogatives may very well violate the Tenth Amendment in the eyes of many constitutional authorities. Is that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Recent court opinions, if my colleague would permit me to ask another question, such as New York v. United States or Printz v. United States has made the Tenth Amendment a shield against Federal impositions on the sovereign authority of the States. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That was not always the case, but it has been so in those cases. Under any view of federalism, there is no justification for Congress, whatsoever, entering an area of pure State jurisdiction, altering the rights and the liabilities or remedies of private parties, and then dispensing with all due process protections guaranteed by the Constitution. Isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, let me ask the Senator just one or two more questions. I may have a lot more to say later in this debate. 
The States have already shown a willingness to step in and prevent unreasonable and excessive fees in the tobacco settlements. Is that right?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. In the Florida settlement, the court threw out the contingency fee arrangement, which it found to be clearly excessive under the circumstances. This shows that the State courts are best equipped to address this issue by utilizing the arbitration provision of the Commerce Committee bill. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As I understand it, the bill that the distinguished Senator has worked on, the one that is on the floor before us today--as much as I dislike the bill, as much as I think it will not solve the problem, as much as I think it will not bring the tobacco companies back to the table, as much as I think it could be written in a far better way, and as much as I think it has been substantially weakened by some of the amendments agreed to--the fact of the matter is that the bill does have a provision whereby attorneys' fees can be resolved. Is that not correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The bill contains a provision whereby the attorneys' fees will have to be resolved in a legally reasonable manner. Isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It is very unlikely that anybody is going to get away with some big windfall under the provisions that apply in this bill and, I might add, in the substitute that we have worked on as well. Am I right on that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, let me ask the distinguished Senator this: It seems to me we must also examine the precedent we are setting here in having the U.S. Congress single out any one profession by capping their earnings. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Can I ask my dear friend and colleague, do we single out the insurance executives or computer executives? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Does the U.S. Congress set their fees or their salaries or their compensation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Do we single out labor union leaders and say they 
can only earn so much money? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I remember when Jackie Pressler was the chairman of the Teamsters. He came before our committee and somebody brought out that he made over half a million dollars a year and was kind of needling him that it was too much money for a labor union leader to make. He looked right up at him and said, `Well, I want you to know that almost every one of my corporate counterparts makes a lot more. And I'm worth every penny that I make for my union.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I had to agree with him. I thought he was worth every penny he made, whether you agree or disagree. 
What about entertainers? Do we set an amount of money they can make? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Or sports figures? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If Michael Jordan wants to make $60 or $80 million a year, or Tiger Woods, who is earning millions of dollars a year, should Congress be setting their salary? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me ask one other question. I admire some of the top corporate leaders in the world as well as the top sports figures in the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I admire people who are innovative and creative. Take Bill Gates, for example. I admire him. I think what he has done at Microsoft is nothing short of phenomenal. But should we begrudge the fact that he has earned his spot in our society as one of the wealthiest men in the world, worth somewhere between $40 and $50 billion? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Not to dwell on that industry--Steve Jobs; he deserves every penny he made. He helped make the computer industry what it is today. Isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The head of Compaq, or the head of Hewlett-Packard or Larry Ellison, the head of Oracle, or any of them for that matter are all very wealthy people who some people think lucked their way into this wealth. I happen to believe they worked hard and with innovation and creativity they were able to make this kind of compensation. 
Are they really that much different from really top-notch plaintiffs' lawyers like the Castano group lawyers who really made a difference here and who are responsible for bringing the tobacco industry to the table and getting their agreement on the $386.5 billion settlement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Nobody has been able to accomplish what these attorneys have achieved. They brought the whole tobacco industry to their heels and tried to get the U.S. Congress--at least the Senate, so far--to try to do something about the deplorable behavior of tobacco companies. Isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Don't you think they deserve better than average compensation for that significant accomplishment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me ask the Senator this question. If the Senate falls to pass this bill and we wind up doing nothing here or if we cut out the attorney fees, they could wind up not recouping the $40 to $100 million in legal time and other expenses that they have incurred in this matter; isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Isn't that what contingency fees are all about? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. When I tried cases for plaintiffs on contingency fees, I won most all of them. It was not a matter of not getting paid, because I was always able to win a bigger verdict than I could have gotten through settlement or they could have gotten through settlement. 
The fact of the matter is, if I hadn't won the cases, I would have assumed those losses; isn't that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. My point is, that is why contingent fees are so important. A lot of the people who came to me could in no way have spent a day in court without a contingency fee lawyer who was willing to take the risk of bringing their case before a jury and trying to recover just compensation for them before that jury; isn't that true? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-37-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have been there, and I have to say, when we start setting salaries for attorneys, or any other group of people, that is going to be the end of the free market system, as far as I am concerned. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-38-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield so I can compliment the two managers. I want to compliment the managers for the provision contained in this bill that resolves these matters. You have taken a reasonable set of language and a provision that would resolve the question of reasonable legal fees. I think both manages on this bill deserve credit for having done that. 
I will have more to say on this issue later. I am sorry I interrupted my colleague, but I wanted to ask him these questions, since he had spoken so eloquently.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce, along with Senators Thurmond, Abraham, and Ashcroft, the Judicial Improvement Act of 1998; legislation that will restore public confidence in our democratic process by strengthening the constitutional division of powers between the Federal government and the States and between Congress and the Courts. On the whole, our federal judges are respectful of their constitutional roles, yet a degree of overreaching by some dictates that Congress move to more clearly delineate the proper role of Federal judges in our constitutional system. Increasingly, judges forget that the Constitution has committed to them the power to interpret law, but reserved to Congress the power to legislate. 
This careful balancing of legislative and judicial functions is vital to our constitutional system. Regardless of how much we, as individuals, may approve of the results of a certain judge's decision, we must look beyond short-term political interests and remember the importance of preserving our Constitution. 
Attempts by certain jurists to encroach upon legislative authority deeply concern me. I have taken the floor in this chamber on numerous occasions to recite some of the more troubling examples of judicial overreaching. I will not revisit them today. Suffice it to say that activism, and by that I mean a judge who ignores the written text of the law, whether from the right or the left, threatens our constitutional structure. 
As an elected official, my votes for legislation are subject to voter approval. Federal judges, however, are unelected, hence they are, as a practical matter, unaccountable to the public. While tenure during good behavior, which amounts to life tenure, is important in that it frees judges to make unpopular, but constitutionally sound, decisions, it can become a threat to liberty when placed in the wrong hands. Alexander Hamilton, in the 78th Federalist, warned of the problem when judges `substitute their own pleasures to the constitutional intentions of the legislature.' [Federalist No. 78, A. Hamilton]. Hamilton declared that `The courts must declare the sense of the law; and if they should be disposed to exercise Will instead of Judgment, the consequence would equally be the substitution of their pleasure to that of the legislative body.' [Ibid.]. And substituting the will of life-tenured federal judges for the democratically elected representatives is not what our Constitution's framers had in mind. 
In an effort to avoid this long-contemplated problem, the proposed reform legislation we are introducing today will assist in ensuring that all three branches of the federal government work together in a fashion contemplated by, and consistent with, the Constitution. In addition, this legislation will ensure that federal judges are more respectful of the States. 
This bill is not, as some would claim, an assault on the Federal Judiciary. Indeed, the overwhelming majority of our Federal judges would find repugnant the idea of imposing their personal views on the people in lieu of Federal or State law. However, there are currently some activist Federal judges improperly expanding their roles to quash the will of the people. These individuals view themselves as so-called platonic guardians, and believe they know what is in the people's best interest. Judges, however, are simply not entitled to deviate from their roles as interpreters of the law to create new law from the bench. If they believe otherwise, they are derelict in their duties and should resign to run for public office--at least then they would be accountable for their actions. It is time that we pass legislation that precludes any Federal judge from blurring the lines separating the legislative and judicial functions. 
It is important to note that the effort to reign in judicial activism should not be limited simply to opposing potential activist nominees. While the careful scrutiny of judicial nominees is one important step in the process, a step reserved to the Senate alone, Congress itself has an obligation to the public to ensure that judges fulfill their constitutionally assigned roles and do not encroach upon those powers delegated to the legislature. Hence, the Congress performs an important role in bringing activist decisions to light and, where appropriate, publicly criticizing those decisions. Some view this as an assault upon judicial independence. That is untrue. It is merely a means of engaging in debate about a decision's merits or the process by which the decision was reached. Such criticism is a healthy part of our democratic system. While life tenure insulates judges from the political process, it should not, and must not, isolate them from the people. 
In addition, the Constitution grants Congress the authority, with a few notable limitations, to set federal courts' jurisdiction. This is an important tool that, while seldom used, sets forth the circumstances in which the judicial power may be exercised. A good example of this is the 104th Congress' effort to reform the statutory writ of habeas corpus in an attempt to curb the seemingly endless series of petitions filed by convicted criminals bent on thwarting the demands of justice. Legislation of this nature, actually called for by the Chief Justice and praised in his recent annual report, is an important means of curbing activism. 
To this end, I have chosen to introduce the Federal Judicial Improvement Act. It is a small, albeit meaningful, step in the right direction. Notably, this legislation will change the way federal courts review constitutional challenges to State and federal laws. The existing process allows a single federal judge to hear and grant applications regarding the constitutionality of State and federal laws as well as state ballot initiatives. In other words, a single federal judge can impede the will of a majority of the voters merely by issuing an order halting the implementation of a state referendum. 
This proposed reform will accomplish the twin goals of fighting judicial activism and preserving the democratic process. This bill modestly proposes to respond to the problem of judicial activism by:  
1. Requiring a three judge district court panel to hear appeals and grant interlocutory or permanent injunctions based on the constitutionality of the state law or referendum. 
2. Placing time limitations on remedial authority in any civil action in which prospective relief or a consent judgment binds State or local officials. 
3. Prohibiting a Federal court from having the authority to order State or local governments to increase taxes as part of a judicial remedy. 
4. Preventing a Federal court from prohibiting State or local officials from reprosecuting a defendant. AND 
5. Preventing a Federal court from ordering the release of violent offenders under unwarranted circumstances. 
This reform bill is a long overdue effort to minimize the potential for judicial activism in the federal court system. Americans are understandably frustrated when they exercise their right to vote and the will of their elected representatives is thwarted by judges who enjoy life tenure. It's no wonder that millions of Americans don't think their vote matters when they enact a referendum only to have it enjoined by 
a single district court judge. By improving the way federal courts analyze constitutional challenges to laws and initiatives, Congress will protect the rights of parties to challenge unconstitutional laws while at the same time reduce the ability of activist judges to abuse their power and stifle the will of the people. 
I want to take a few moments to describe how this legislation will curb the ability of federal judges to engage in judicial activism. The first reform would require a three judge panel to hear and issue interlocutory and permanent injunctions regarding challenged laws at the district court level. The current system allows a single federal judge to restrain the enforcement, operation and execution of challenged federal or state laws, including initiatives. There have been many instances where an activist judge has used this power to overturn a ballot initiative only to have his or her order overturned by a higher court years later. 
For example, this change would have prevented U.S. District Court Judge Thelton Henderson from issuing an injunction barring enforcement of Proposition 209, a ballot initiative which prohibited affirmative action in California. Judge Henderson's order was subsequently overturned by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which ruled that the law was constitutional and that Judge Henderson thwarted the will of the people. A three judge panel would have prevented Henderson from acting on his own, and perhaps would have ruled correctly in the first place. 
Now, I have no problem with a court declaring a law unconstitutional when it violates the written text of the Constitution. It is, however, inappropriate when a judge, like Judge Henderson, attempts to act like a super-legislator and imposes his own policy preference on the citizens of a State. Such an action weakens respect for the federal judiciary, creates cynicism in the voting public, and costs the government millions of dollars in legal fees. By requiring a three judge panel, the proposed law would eliminate the ability of one activist judge to unilaterally bar enforcement of a law or ballot initiative through an interlocutory or permanent injunction. 
In addition, new time limits on injunctive relief would be imposed. A temporary restraining order would remain in force no more than 10 days, and an interlocutory injunction no more than 60 days. After the expiration of an interlocutory injunction, federal courts would lack the authority to grant any additional interlocutory relief but would still have the power to issue a permanent injunction. These limitations are designed to prevent the federal judiciary from indefinitely barring implementation of challenged laws by issuing endless injunctions, and facilitate the appeals process by motivating courts to speedily handle constitutional challenges. 
We need only to look at the legal wrangling over Proposition 187 to see the need for these time constraints. The California initiative was overwhelmingly approved in 1994 with almost 60 percent of the vote and was designed to end all social services and other benefits to illegal aliens. The referendum was supported by voters who felt that they as taxpayers didn't have the ability to provide those who break immigration laws with free health, education and welfare. Opponents who lost at the ballot box went to federal court the next day and obtained an injunction prohibiting enforcement of 187, and to this day it has never been the law of the state of California. 
U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer issued a preliminary injunction soon after the 1994 election and ruled way back in 1995 that part of 187 was unconstitutional. The injunction stayed in effect and she finally ruled on the rest of the initiative in March of this year, when she found that an additional portion of the initiative was unconstitutional. The proposed time limitation on injunctions would have been an incentive for the judge to rule promptly on the issues at hand, and precluded her from indefinitely delaying enforcement of the proposition without ruling. What this reform essentially does is encourage the federal judiciary to rule on the merits of a case, and not use injunctions to keep a challenged law from going into effect or being heard by an appeals court through the use of delaying tactics. 
The bill also proposes to require that a notice of appeal must be filed not more than fourteen days after the date of an order granting an interlocutory injunction and the appeals court would lack jurisdiction over an untimely appeal of such an order. The court of appeals would apply a de novo standard of review before reconsidering the merits of granting relief, but not less than 100 days after the issuance of the original order granting interlocutory relief. If the interlocutory order is upheld on appeal, the order would remain in force no longer than 60 days after the date of the appellate decision or until replaced by a permanent injunction. 
The bill also proposes limitations on the remedial authority of federal courts. In any civil action where prospective relief or a consent judgment binds state and local officials, relief would be terminated upon the motion of any party or intervener: 
a) five years after the date the court granted or approved the prospective relief; 
b) two years after the date the court has entered an order denying termination of prospective relief; or 
c) in the case of an order issued on or before the date of enactment of this act, two years after the date of enactment. 
Parties could agree to terminate or modify an injunction before relief is available if it otherwise would be legally permissible. Courts would promptly rule on motions to modify or terminate this relief and in the event that a motion is not ruled on within 60 days, the order or consent judgment binding State and local officials would automatically terminate. 
However, prospective relief would not terminate if the federal court makes written findings based on the record that relief remains necessary to correct an ongoing violation of a federal right, extends no further than necessary to correct the violation and is the least intrusive means available to correct the violation of a federal right. 
This measure would also prohibit a federal court from having the authority to order a unit of state or local government to increase taxes as part of a judicial remedy. When an unelected Federal judge has the power to order tax increases, this results in taxation without representation. Americans have fought against unfair taxation since the Revolutionary War, and this bill would prevent unfair judicial taxation and leave the power to tax to elected representatives of the people. 
The bill would not limit the authority of a Federal court to order a remedy which may lead a unit of local or State government to decide to increase taxes. A Federal court would still have the power to issue a money judgment against a State because the court would not be 
attempting to restructure local government entities or mandating a particular method or structure of State or local financing. This bill also doesn't limit the remedial authority of State courts in any case, including cases raising issues of federal law. All the bill does is prevent Federal courts from having the power to order elected representatives to raise taxes. This is moderate reform which prevents judicial activism and unfair taxation while preserving the Federal courts power to order remedial measures. 
Another important provision of the bill would prevent a federal court from prohibiting State or local officials from re-prosecuting a defendant. This legislation is designed to clarify that federal habeas courts lack the authority to bar retrial as a remedy. 
This part of the legislation was co-sponsored by Congressman Pitts and Senator Specter in response to a highly-publicized murder case in the Congressman's district. Sixteen year old Laurie Show was harassed, stalked and assaulted for six months by the defendant, who had a vendetta against Show for briefly dating the defendant's boyfriend. After luring Show's mother from their residence, the defendant and an accomplice forcefully entered the Show home, held the victim down, and slit her throat with a butcher knife, killing her. After the defendant was convicted in State court, she filed a habeas petition in which she alleged prosecutorial misconduct and averred her actual innocence. Federal district court judge Stewart Dalzell not only accepted this argument and released the defendant, but he also took the extraordinary step of barring state and local officials from reprosecuting the woman. Judge Dalzell stated that the defendant was the `first and foremost victim of this affair.' 
Congress has long supported the ability of a Federal court to fashion creative remedies to preserve constitutional protections, but the additional step of barring state or local officials from reprosecution is without precedent and an unacceptable intrusion on the rights of states. This bill, if enacted, will prevent this type of judicial activism from ever occurring again. 
This bill also contains provisions for the termination of prospective relief when it is no longer warranted to cure a violation of a federal right. Once a violation that was the subject of a consent decree has been corrected, a consent decree must be terminated unless the court finds that an ongoing violation of a federal right exists, the specific relief is necessary to correct the violation of a Federal right, and no other relief will correct the violation of the Federal right. The party opposing the termination of relief has the burden of demonstrating why the relief should not be terminated, and the court is required to grant the motion to terminate if the opposing party fails to meet its burden. These provisions prevent consent decrees from remaining in effect once a proper remedy has been implemented, thereby preventing judges from imposing consent decrees that go beyond the requirements of law. 
The proposed reform law also includes provisions designed to dissuade prisoners from filing frivolous and malicious motions by requiring that the complainant prisoner pay for the costs of the filings. These provisions will undoubtedly curb the number of frivolous motions filed by prisoners and thus, relieve the courts of the obligation to hear these vacuous motions designed to mock and frustrate the judicial system. 
Finally, the bill proposes to prevent federal judges from entering or carrying out any prisoner release order that would result in the release from or nonadmission to a prison on the basis of prison conditions. This provision will effectively preclude activist judges from circumventing mandatory minimum sentencing laws by stripping the federal judges of jurisdiction to enter such orders. This will ensure that the tough sentencing laws approved by voters to keep murderers, rapists, and drug dealers behind bars for lengthy terms will not be ignored by activist judges who improperly use complaints of prison conditions filed by convicts as a vehicle to release violent offenders back on our streets. 
For an example of this activism, I offer the rulings of a jurist whom I have mentioned before, Federal Judge Norma Shapiro, who sits on the Federal bench in Philadelphia. Judge Shapiro has a different view of what prison life should be: a view completely divergent from the view of the general public and, most importantly, the law. 
Judge Shapiro used complaints filed by inmates to impose her activist views and wrestle control of the prison system by setting a cap on the number of prisoners that can be incarcerated in Pennsylvania. When faced with the opportunity to extend her judicial powers and seize control of the prison system, Judge Shapiro jumped at the chance and the results have been disastrous. 
The cap imposed by Judge Shapiro forced the release of 500 prisoners a week. Because of this cap, in a time period of 18 months alone, 9,732 arrestees were released on Philadelphia. Of course, many were re-arrested on other charges, including 79 murders, 90 rapes, 701 burglaries, 959 robberies, 1,113 assaults, 2,215 drug offenses and 2,748 thefts. [Philadelphia Inquirer]. Releasing dangerous criminals on to the streets to reek havoc and violence is the ultimate slap in the faces of law enforcement and justice. How can we expect law enforcement to provide protection and safe streets if at every turn there is a Judge Shapiro waiting anxiously for the chance to release lawlessness on our communities? This reform bill will prevent Judge Shapiro and other like-minded judges from ever endangering families and children in our communities again by preventing these Judges from releasing prisoners based on prison conditions. 
Prison life is not supposed to be pleasant or comfortable; rather, it is supposed to serve as a deterrent to future crime. I would be worried if no prisoners were filing complaints because they actually found prison life to be acceptable. But it seems that some activist judges are willing to believe any prisoner complaint equates or rises to the level of a constitutional violation. It seems that in some courtrooms, if a prisoner simply files a complaint alleging prison conditions aren't laudable or praiseworthy, chances are good that that prisoner, and many others, will be released from custody early, sometimes immediately, thanks to the misguided activism of the judge hearing the complaint. This is absolutely unacceptable and this proposed law will put a stop to the agendas of some activist judges who believe every argument that the ACLU and guilty, but bored, convicts offer up. 
This overdue legislation is a measured effort to improve the way the federal judiciary works. It fights judicial activism and actually improves the way constitutional appeals are handled. This reform bill is a sensible, balanced attempt to promote judicial efficiency and to prevent egregious judicial activism. I encourage my colleagues to act swiftly on this needed reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, year after year, millions of people flock to Washington D.C. to visit the seat of American government. They come from every state of the union and most of the nations of the Earth to view for themselves the workings of the oldest democracy in the world. This city, through its historic edifices, tells the story of our nation. I am grateful for the thousands of professionals and volunteers who help to share that story with all who come to hear it. 
Over one million of these visitors come to the Supreme Court Building each year. They come to see, experience, and learn about the workings of American justice. Meeting this large demand can be taxing on the resources of the Court. To satisfy this need, without adding an undue burden to the budget, the Court has asked Congress to enact legislation permitting volunteers from the Supreme Court Historical Society to conduct public tours of the Supreme Court building. 
This legislation will provide the Court with the same benefits that have recently been extended to the Congress. Currently, 35 volunteers from the Capitol Guide Service assist Capitol visitors by providing historical perspective and insight. I have been told by the Capitol Guide Service that the influx of volunteers, allowed by legislation in the 104th Congress, enabled them to increase the volume of their tours of the Capitol by approximately twenty-five percent. Moreover, it provided the personnel necessary to expand their service to the exterior of the Capitol. Guides positioned outside the Capitol help direct visitors and provide information about the historic external architecture of this building. The use of volunteers has improved the experience of citizens visiting the Capitol grounds. 
The proposed legislation, like that covering congressional volunteers, will have no adverse fiscal impact, nor will it displace any Supreme Court employees. The legislation will, however, dramatically improve the ability of the Supreme Court to educate the public about this distinctly American institution. 
I believe that upon passage of this legislation, all Americans who visit our seat of Justice will appreciate the expanded services made available by its enactment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, nearly 2 years ago, President Clinton announced, from the South Rim of the Grand Canyon, the formation of the country's newest national monument, the Grand Staircase-Escalante Monument in southern Utah. 
Because of the clandestine manner by which the Administration made this decision and planned its announcement, what should have been cause for celebration among Utahns resulted in feelings of exploitation and abuse. Public trust in our federal government reached an all time low in southern Utah, and many wounds inflicted then still exist today. 
Today, I am introducing legislation, along with my colleague Senator Bennett, which, if passed, will help restore trust in our government and assist the healing process among our rural citizens in Utah. 
The Utah Schools and Lands Exchange Act of 1998 codifies a recently signed agreement brokered by the Secretary of Interior, Bruce Babbitt, and Utah Governor Michael Leavitt to exchange Utah School Trust lands located within Utah's national parks, monuments, recreation areas, and forests for cash and federal assets in other parts of Utah. The collaboration that should have taken place prior to the establishment of the Grand Staircase-Escalante Monument has finally taken place to mitigate one of the severest impacts of that presidential declaration. 
This agreement is the result of a lengthy and somewhat fragile negotiation, which included such critical issues as achieving the effective management of the public's land, preserving the environment, and consummating a fair and equitable exchange between the federal government and the State of Utah. The result is a mutually beneficial exchange of state and federal property that deserves the support and approval of the Congress. 
As my colleagues may recall, when Utah achieved statehood in 1896, a number of sections within each township were set aside for the support of the common schools. By law, these lands, known as School Trust Lands, are to be managed in the best possible way to generate revenue for Utah's school children. Several western states have a similar revenue plan for their public school systems. 
Utah's checkerboard pattern of land owernship--squares of federal, state, and private land intermingled throughout the state--has historically created difficulties between the federal and state governments. Conflicts of interest between federal and state land managers became more obvious and divisive as national parks, forests, or monuments were created. 
When federal land is set aside or designated as a national park, forest, or monument in Utah, our School Trust Lands are captured within their boundaries. In effect, the state loses its ability to generate revenues from these lands because they have been surrounded by lands in a specially protected designation. By 1990, over 200,000 acres of school trust land were isolated within federal designations. 
In 1993, Congress passed legislation I sponsored along with other delegation members--the Utah Schools and Lands Improvement Act of 1993, P.L. 103-93--to help resolve this land management situation. But implementation has been unsatisfactory. There have been endless arguments over appraisals and literally millions of dollars in expenses to the state for legal and research activities. For this reason alone, the legislation we are introducing today is necessary. 
During his announcement to establish the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, President Clinton voiced his firm commitment that Utah's school children would not be negatively affected by the creation of the Monument. In other words, those School Trust Lands captured within the Monument's boundaries would be withdrawn and made fully available, and thus profitable, for the benefit of Utah's public education system. The principal purpose of this bill is to put the bipartisan, federal-state negotiated agreement into effect and to ensure that the President's promise to protect Utah's school children does not ring hollow. This is accomplished in several ways. 
First, as I mentioned, this bill will transfer approximately 350,000 acres of School Trust Lands that are located within Utah monuments, recreations areas, national parks, and forests, to the federal government. These lands are similar in nature to the adjacent federal lands and are deserving of the same designation and special management considerations as their federal neighbors. This exchange harmonizes the land ownership pattern within Utah's national parks, forests and monuments, thus eliminating any competing management objectives within these designations. The American people will be greatly benefited once the entire acreage within a park or forest is federal land. 
Let me assure my colleagues that those lands to be acquired by the federal government are just as extraordinary as the adjacent federal lands. 
For example, this acreage includes: Eye of the Whale Arch, located in Arches National Park; the Perfect Ruin (an Anasazi ruin) and the Jacob Hamblin Arch of Glen Canyon National Recreation Area; several hundred foot red rock cliffs located within in the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument; and the high mountain alpine area in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest known as Franklin Basin. It includes many other exciting natural wonders, such as ancient Native American rock art panels in Dinosaur National Monument and unique geologic formations of the Waterpocket Fold within Capitol Reef National Park. 
Our proposal will protect these and other precious land forms by transferring their ownership to the federal government. 
For its part, the State of Utah will receive $50,000,000 in cash previously set aside in the 103rd Congress for P.L. 103-93. This money has already been appropriated and thus there is no budgetary impact caused by this bill. An additional $13,000,000 produced from unleased coal sales will also be forthcoming to the State. These funds will all be deposited to the Utah Permanent School Fund for the benefit of Utah's current and future school children. 
In addition, under the terms of the agreement, the State will gain access to 160 million tons of coal, 185 billion cubic feet of coal bed methane resources, 139,000 acres of land and minerals located in nine Utah counties, and a variety of minerals including limestone, tar sands, oil, and gas. 
Coal reserves the state will receive include the Mill Fork Tract and North Horn Tract in Emery County; the West Ridge Tract in Carbon County; and the Muddy Creek and Dugout Canyon Tracts located in both Carbon and Emery Counties. 
The coal bed methane resources acquired by the state are situated in the Ferron Field, located in Carbon and Emery counties, and totals 58,000 acres. 
Finally, the agreement provides for additional state acquisitions, including limestone deposits, oil and gas properties, and Tar Sands, and several properties identified in 1993 will be transferred to state control: the Blue Mountain Telecommunication Site, located in Uintah County, and the Beaver Mountain ski resort in Cache County. 
Mr. President, in closing let me mention one important point regarding the Babbitt-Leavitt agreement to be effectuated by the legislation we are introducing today. The entire exchange is of approximately equal value. This is a delicately structured package that includes an exchange of state lands for federal assets. Each party to the agreement recognizes this fact, which is the glue keeping this agreement together. 
And, while protecting the interests of both the State of Utah and the federal government, the agreement and the bill also protect existing stakeholders, such as the affected local governments and the valid existing rights of permittees, such as ranchers and mining leases. As I mentioned earlier, the important fact to keep in mind is there is no impact to the federal budget from this legislation. 
Mr. President, Secretary Babbitt and Governor Leavitt have achieved an historic agreement that is truly remarkable. The State of Utah has been trying to exchange School Trust Lands captured within federal reservations for decades, thus allowing these lands to be profitably utilized for the benefit of Utah's school children. We now have an opportunity through this agreement to reach this worthwhile goal. 
I hope that the Senate will seriously review this agreement and this legislation will add its support with little, if any, alteration. I believe this proposal is necessary and will provide substantial benefit to the people of Utah and the citizens of this country.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the first freedom guaranteed in the Bill of Rights is the freedom to believe and to put those beliefs into practice as we think right, without government interference. This promise of freedom of worship is, for many, this country's founding principle--the pilgrims' reason for braving thousands of miles of dark and dangerous seas, and countless privations once here. The Constitutional guarantee of the free exercise of religion for all has been a beacon to the world throughout our history. 
In America, priests should not be punished for declining to violate the confidence of the confessional to turn state's evidence against religious confessors. In America, the ability of citizens to hold private Bible studies in their own homes or the freedom of synagogues and churches to locate near their members should not be left entirely to the whims of local zoning boards. Congregants of any faith should not be told by the government who they can and cannot have as religious leaders and teachers. No, not in America. 
Last year, when the Supreme Court struck down part of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in the case of City of Boerne versus Flores (117 S.Ct. 2157 (1997))--an Act that sought to redress a threat to religious liberty of the Court's own making--we who value the free exercise of religion vowed we would rebuild our coalition and craft a solution which appropriately defers to the Court's decision. Well, we have done so, and we are ready to move forward. 
We introduce today legislation that uses the full extent of our powers to make government cognizant of and solicitous of the freedom of each American to serve his or her concept of God. Where adjustment in general rules can possibly be made to accommodate this most basic liberty, it ought and must be made. As our government exists to guarantee such freedoms, government should only in the rarest instances itself infringe on this most basic and foundational freedom. 
We have worked together across party lines and with a coalition of truly remarkable breadth to fashion federal legislation to protect religious liberty that is consistent with both the vision of the Framers of the First Amendment and the ruling of the current Supreme Court about Congress' power to legislate in this area. 
The legislation that we introduce today will subject to strict scrutiny laws that substantially burden religious exercise in those areas within legitimate federal reach through either the commerce or spending powers, and provides procedural helps to ensure a full day in court for believers who must litigate to vindicate Free Exercise claims in areas of predominantly state jurisdiction. The legislation seeks to protect religious activity even in the face of general legislative rules that make that worship difficult or impossible through unawareness, insensitivity, or hidden hostility 
We believe we have constructed legislation that can merit the support of all who value the free exercise of religion, our first freedom. We commend it to our colleagues in the Congress, and to all those who wish to keep the Framers' promise of religious freedom alive for all Americans of all faiths. 
Mr. President, I commend this important legislation to my colleagues for their support. It is backed by an unprecedented coalition ranging from Focus on the Family, Family Research Council, and the Southern Baptist Convention to People for the American Way and the ACLU. I also ask unanimous consent that a copy of the bill and an explanatory section by section analysis be placed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to support final passage of the conference report on the reauthorization of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA). I commend my colleagues who have worked so hard on this bill, Senator Chafee, Senator Warner and Senator Baucus, Senator Domenici and Senator D'Amato. 
This has been an incredibly difficult process. Whenever you have to divide resources among competing interests there is going to be friction. The conferees on this legislation have done an admirable job in balancing these competing interests in the name of our shared national interest in safe, efficient highways. 
This highway and transit reauthorization is important for the country and for my state of Utah. Utah needs this bill and I am happy that we can deliver it to them. Like a lot of states, Utah has a number of crucial infrastructure improvements needed in our highway and transit systems. Unlike other states, however, Utah must complete a number of these projects in time for the 2002 winter Olympic Games. 
This bill makes clear that the federal government has a responsibility to assist my state of Utah make the transportation improvements needed to successfully host the 2002 Games. By including language which gives the Secretary of Transportation the authority to give priority consideration for Olympic host cities, the Congress has acknowledged that these really are America's Games. 
I also applaud the members of the Environment and Public Works Committee for crafting a formula which recognizes the fact that there has been a population shift to the west and that a federal highway funding formula must accommodate the rapid growth in western states. 
There are a number of important projects authorized in this legislation. I am pleased that we were able to bring a number of earmarked demonstration projects up to an appropriate level. Utah is growing quickly both in population and vehicle miles traveled. These projects, all part of the state's transportation improvement plan, will make a real difference in a number of rural counties. 
Finally, I wish to commend all the members of the Utah delegation. We are a small delegation, but we are a strong delegation and when we work together, as we have all done relative to this legislation, we are an effective delegation. 
I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we were all shocked and saddened by the tragic shooting incident at the Thurston High School in Springfield, Oregon. I listened with sympathy this morning to my colleagues from Oregon, and share their sentiments. My heart goes out to the victims of this horrendous crime, and my prayers are with the injured, and with the families of all the victims in the Springfield community. I know that every parent or grandparent who sends a child to school shares the grief of the Springfield families. 
This kind of tragedy has become far too common. It was only two months ago that we were shocked by the violence and horror of the schoolyard shooting in Jonesboro, Arkansas. Every day, it seems, we are assailed by new stories of senseless crimes committed by juveniles who should be too young to be capable of such acts. 
Our juvenile crime problem has taken a new and sinister direction. I can imagine few acts more heinous than some of the crimes recently committed by juveniles around the country. We seem now to be in a new era, in which juveniles are committing sophisticated adult crimes. This disturbing trend demonstrates the need to reform the juvenile justice system that is failing the victims of juvenile crime, failing too many of our young people, and ultimately, failing society. 
The Senate has before it comprehensive youth violence legislation. S. 10, the Hatch-Sessions Violent and Repeat Juvenile Offender Act, reported out of the Judiciary Committee last year on bipartisan vote. The goal of S. 10 is to reform and redirect the role played by the federal government in addressing juvenile crime in our Nation. 
Responding to the testimony and advice of many state and local officials, S. 10 reauthorizes and streamlines the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA), which provides assistance to the states in fighting juvenile crime. S. 10 also creates a $500 million per year incentive block grant program for the states. These block grants can be used for a multitude of purposes, such as incarceration, graduated sanctions, serious and habitual offender programs, juvenile criminal record sharing, drug testing and treatment of juvenile arrestees, and numerous prevention programs. 
In the face of tragedies such as the Springfield and Jonesboro murders, it is tempting to look for easy answers. I do not believe that we should succumb to this temptation. We are faced, I believe, with a problem which cannot be solved solely by the enactment of new criminal prohibitions. It is at its core a moral problem. Somehow, in this case and too many others like it, we have failed as a society to pass along to the next generation the moral compass that differentiates right from wrong. This cannot be legislated. It will not be restored by the enactment of a new law or the implementation of a new program. But it can be achieved by communities working together to teach accountability by example and by early intervention when the signs clearly point to violent and antisocial behavior, as seems to be the case in some of these tragedies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with my distinguished colleague, Senator Feinstein, in introducing this legislation to combat the efforts of a few overzealous individuals to improperly intrude upon other's privacy rights. I am cosponsoring this legislation, in large measure, as a tribute to the efforts of Congressman Sonny Bono, who brought this issue to the fore. As we all know, long before he was elected to Congress, Representative Bono achieved celebrity status in the music business and on television. He was thus acutely aware, from an early age, of the costs of fame. A cost that some, such as rising television star Rebecca Schaeffer, had to pay in blood, and others, such as Arnold Schwarzenegger, Steven Spielburg, Jodie Foster, David Letterman, and Elizabeth Taylor, to name but a few, have had to pay with a loss of privacy and an inability to freely mingle in public. 
Unfortunately, certain individuals within the generally responsible media corps have forced many of these well-known figures to hide behind a veil of high-priced security systems and bodyguards. I know that some so-called celebrities have openly questioned whether their fame is worth the price of sacrificing their privacy and their ability to live normal lives. 
I know, too, that my colleague, Senator Feinstein, was herself once the target of a stalker. So I know that this legislation means a great deal to her on a personal level. As public figures, whether as actors or musicians or yes, even Senators, we must expect a certain amount of media attention. Indeed, most of my colleagues on the Hill relish such attention--particularly in election years! Press coverage--some of it favorable, some of it not so favorable--is all a part of the system. Indeed, it is an important part of our democratic system. So important that the Constitution's framers bestowed upon us the First Amendment protections of free speech and press. And lest we condemn those who have followed recent infamous criminal trials too closely, I would note that the Sixth Amendment guarantees the right to a public trial. The glare of the spotlight is an unavoidable, and in most cases, laudable, feature of a free democratic-republic. 
Unfortunately, just as the right to swing one's fist may end at another man's nose, the right to aim one's camera at another person's face may end where that person has a reasonable expectation of privacy. Undoubtedly, the privacy expectations of public figures are considerably different from that of private individuals. That is a reality that all who walk in the glare of the camera come to expect and learn, for the most part, to deal with. But when the media become too intrusive, or cross lines of general decency or responsibility, something must be done. 
It is one thing for the media to attend a press conference where I introduce this legislation--it is quite another thing, however, for the media to follow me home and train their cameras on my windows. I know, for example, that Arnold Schwarzenegger and Maria Shriver did not appreciate the attempts of some in the media, shortly after Mr. Schwarzenegger had been released from the hospital after undergoing open heart surgery, to stop their van on the street as they were taking their children to school, in an attempt to get photographs. I don't think any of us here would appreciate it if someone tried to harass our spouses or fathers or mothers as they left the hospital after having had major surgery. Public figure or not, some things simply cross the bounds of responsible journalism or media coverage. 
I think the recent death of Princess Diana focused efforts to deal with an overly intrusive media--even if it is unclear whether the media had anything to do with that tragedy. In fact, some people overreacted to that horrible event, pointing fingers at the press before the facts were established. Regardless of the media's role in that accident, the mere fact that people recognized that she had long been harassed by an overly aggressive media, and that it was not such a stretch to believe that the paparazzi could have played a role in her tragic death, demonstrates the seriousness of this problem. 
In the wake of Princess Diana's death, Representative Bono and Senator Feinstein began a tireless crusade to see Federal legislation enacted to protect people from the so-called stalkarazzi. We are now witnessing the fruits of their efforts--I only wish that Representative Bono had been here to see this legislation introduced. 
I want to say to Senator Feinstein that I commend her for advocating this legislation. Indeed, I am ready to roll up my sleeves and work with her to address this problem. I am committed to moving this legislation through the Judiciary Committee. At the same time, however, we must take care to craft legislation that will be respectful of our First Amendment rights and of any federalism concerns. In fact, I hope the States will view this bill, as it is refined in committee, as a model for adopting similar reforms. And I am confident that we will be able to strike a reasonable balance between the press' First Amendment rights to seek information about public figures and the right of those individuals to their reasonable expectations of privacy. After all, we must take care that the solution to this admitted problem does not trample on important rights. With these concerns in mind, I intend to work with Senator Feinstein to ensure that we have the best legislation possible. We hope to hold hearings to identify the extent of these problems and to determine how best to combat attempts by some overzealous members of the media in their efforts to profit by intruding on others' privacy. I believe that this legislation is an important first step in that process.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be privileged to follow the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank you. I rise to oppose this amendment. This amendment strikes the so-called `immunity" provisions of the floor vehicle. 
First, let me say that there are no immunity provisions in the underlying bill. The traditional definition of the word `immunity' is: Being in a state `free or exempt' from disease or taxes or civil liability or the like. Under this definition, there is no immunity in the Commerce Committee bill or in the amendment that Senator Feinstein and I have developed. 
The tobacco companies are not exempt from anything. They will be and are accountable for their actions. 
There are, however, in these bills limitations on liability procedures, but these should not be confused with immunity. Under the underlying bill, suits may still be brought. The tobacco companies could still face a multiplicity of suits for civil liability and possible criminal proceedings. This is not immunity by any stretch of the imagination. Indeed, when you are required to fork over a staggering $516 billion as the floor vehicle requires--which is really over $860 billion according to some estimates--you are not getting a free ride. 
If this is really immunity, do you think a bipartisan group of 40 States' attorneys general and some of the leading plaintiffs' attorneys in this country who have been suing the tobacco industry for several years would have backed the June 20 settlement? Of course they wouldn't. It contained, justifiably, in my mind, limited liability provisions broader than the Commerce Committee bill, including a limitation on punitive damages for past bad behavior by the tobacco companies. 
I am talking about some of the leading plaintiffs' lawyers in the country-- 
men like Wendell Gauthier, Stan Chesley, John Climaco, Jim Parkinson, Ken Carter, John Coale, Bob Redfearn, and Don Hildry --I hate to leave any names out because there are literally dozens of them. I am talking about people who have pursued to the full limits of the law the asbestos industry, the Dow Chemical Bhopal disaster, the Dalkon Shield, and the breast implant manufacturers, and virtually every other plaintiffs' litigation that has taken place over the last 25 years. 
And where would we be had these plaintiffs' lawyers not brought these suits? The States themselves are represented by very capable attorneys, attorneys general like Gail Norton of Colorado, Christine Gregoire of Washington, Jan Graham from my own home State of Utah, and Mike Moore of Mississippi, all of whom have worked very closely with me on this matter. 
We are talking about top people here, tough-minded public servants. And the States also met the armies of litigators employed by the tobacco industry by contracting with their own legal experts on the part of the States. 
Dick Scruggs from Mississippi has been in this from the start on behalf of Mississippi and other States. Professor Lawrence Tribe of Harvard has been hired by Massachusetts and other States. 
So we are not talking about a bunch of pushovers here who will lay down in front of the big tobacco bulldozer. These top lawyers all knew they were fighting an uphill battle. And to date, there has never been a penny paid to a litigant in this country due to a jury award. In fact, there has only been one jury award to plaintiffs in the history of the country, I believe for $750,000, and it will be 10 years before that is paid, if it is paid at all. 
I have been following tobacco litigation since my early days as a trial lawyer in Pittsburgh, PA, when I watched one of the greatest trial lawyers in the country, Jimmy McCardle of the law firm of McArdle, Harrington, Feeney, and McLaughlin on Prichard v. Liggett & Myers. It was a terrific battle publicized all over the world, as a matter of fact. And they lost because it is so difficult to win in these battles. 
But nevertheless, once we establish this document repository, it should be easier to prove cases that can go to jury and, I think, increase the chances of jury awards. These top lawyers all knew that this is uphill. I have to say, from the time that Jimmy McArdle, that great attorney, lost, everybody else has lost since him, except for the one Florida case that is on appeal. 
Why are these cases lost? Many legal observers have noted that American juries are very reluctant to award damages in situations where the complaining parties can be viewed as assuming a known risk. So we all have to recognize that the prevailing legal landscape has favored the companies for a long time. 
The 40 State attorneys general and dozens of expert lawyers, like the Castano group, did what rational people do every day in litigation in this country. They proposed to resolve their claims through a settlement. And they did achieve a resolution. But they have to have a bill passed through this Congress that is similar to what they negotiated and brings the tobacco companies back on board, albeit screaming, kicking, and shouting all the way. 
They brought us a proposal that settled the suits and involved massive payments and a brand new regulatory regime in return for some limited liability restrictions. These restrictions will provide an orderly mechanism for compensation payoffs and will provide the companies with financial certainty. 
That is exactly what this legislation should do. The bill we adopt should help resolve these claims and do so in a manner that is in the best interests of the health of the American people. 
So not only do I oppose amendments like these, but I think the most effective way to go about this legislation is to devise liability provisions that address the concerns of plaintiffs in a reasonable fashion. 
When we consider this legislation, let us keep in mind that some 40 State attorneys general and some of the leading plaintiffs' lawyers in this country have already reached judgment that a fair 
and rational way to proceed, the best way to proceed, is to effectuate a national settlement of these claims. 
Every day in our country lawsuits are settled by negotiating mutually agreeable resolutions that usually involve payments of money and with agreements to change certain behaviors. And that is exactly the theory behind the June 20 proposal and, I might add, the Hatch-Feinstein substitute amendment that we probably will bring up before this is over. So in one sense the June 20 proposal and our substitute amendment are typical. 
Of course, what makes this June 20 proposal and our bill atypical is this approach represents the largest settlement proposal in the history of the world; requires the largest payment of punitive damages in the history of the world; contains unprecedented regulatory authority over tobacco products; and, provides for a broad array of public health programs, including public education, tobacco cessation, and counter advertising, that is, if the tobacco companies come back on board. 
If they do not come back on board, many important restrictions are not going to happen and we will be immersed and mired in litigation for a long time, maybe 10 years. And then the bill on the floor, if that is the way it comes out, will likely fail dramatically as an unconstitutional piece of legislation. 
But if we adopt this settlement approach and can drag the companies back on board, we can achieve advertising and look-back penalties far beyond what the Constitution would allow because we would have a consent decrees and protocol contracts where the companies would voluntarily agree to waive certain rights. But to get them to do that, there has to be some incentive for them to do that, and that is some reasonable limited liability provisions. 
Immunity has nothing to do with it. It is limited liability we are talking about here. 
To just give one example, we currently have an FDA rule that is tied up in the courts. This rule bans tobacco billboard advertising within 1,000 feet from public schools. 
The Judiciary Committee heard first amendment experts like Floyd Abrams tell us this rule cannot withstand constitutional scrutiny. But if we adopt a bill that contains liability provisions based on the June 20th settlement model that can bring back the companies, kicking and screaming all the way, we can achieve a total ban on all outdoor billboards. 
This bill on the floor will not do that. But I believe before this battle is finished the final bill will accomplish that, or we just will not achieve as much public health protections as we can here. 
So while the FDA rule wends its way through courts--and I think there is good reason to believe it will fail--today in Florida and Mississippi, through the settlement limited liability approach, there are no tobacco billboards in those States; and soon there will be no billboards in Minnesota because the companies have agreed to stop this advertising. Without reasonable liability limitations, there is no reason for them to just cave in and agree on these matters. 
So there are good public policy reasons to oppose this so-called immunity amendment and favor legislation that, like mine, contains the liability limits modeled on the June 20 agreement. 
Now, while I respect Drs. Koop and Kessler--I had a lot to do with both of them obtaining their Federal appointments that vaulted them to such prominence--I respect them to a large degree when they are commenting on public health matters within their expertise, when it comes to matters touching on the civil litigation system, I have to rely on the judgment of experts in the field, including 40 State attorneys general and the leading plaintiffs' lawyers in this country. As you would not go to a doctor to fix your car, so you would not go to a doctor for a legal opinion. 
I might also add that I have tried some of these cases, too, in the past, not tobacco cases but difficult, contentious 
litigation. And I think I do know what I am talking about. And I do believe that I would like to see Drs. Koop and Kessler limit themselves to their expertise and not try to intrude into matters that literally they do not fully understand. As a matter of fact, in many respects they are gumming up any possibility of getting all these public health moneys that will help us solve some of these problems. 
To be fair, although I do not favor the underlying bill, I have to oppose this amendment. I appreciate our distinguished friend, the Senator from New Hampshire. There is no question he is thoughtful, very decent and a good Senator. I have a tremendous amount of respect for him. I just happen to disagree with him on this matter. 
And to be fair, although I do not favor the underlying bill, I have to oppose this amendment as well. There is simply nothing in the bill that would prohibit an individual from bringing suit against tobacco companies. There is nothing in this bill that would even reduce the amount litigants can be awarded. 
All that is in the bill is an $8 billion yearly cap on the amount of damages that have been awarded. If the awards amount to over $8 billion, the amount will be paid in succeeding years. So there is really no limitation on liability other than that $8 billion cap. And I have to tell you, that is not enough to get the companies back to the table or to get the companies back to voluntarily agreeing to have advertising restrictions and look-back provisions that work. 
In testimony before the Judiciary Committee, while defending the liability provisions of the June 20 settlement--which were even justifiably broader than the cap in the floor vehicle--Laurence H. Tribe, Tyler Professor of Law, Harvard Law School, demonstrated that liability limitations provisions are legal, constitutional, and not unique. As to his constitutional argument, he correctly asserts that the 1978 Duke Power Supreme Court case, allows Congress to alter common law rights such as the granting of punitive damages, and the capping of damages. 
He also pointed out that there are a slew of federal statutes that grant limited liability to different industries and entities. The proponents of this amendment who say that no industry has ever received some liability limitations are just wrong. One example of a federal liability limitation is contained in the Price Anderson Act, which places a $560 million cap on compensatory damages in suits against the nuclear industry. The purpose of this cap is to create an incentive for the development of nuclear energy. 
Another example is the Federal Credit Union Act, which limits damages for lost profits and pain and suffering for losses resulting in the liquidation of federal credit unions. Other examples include the Black Lung benefits program, the National Swine Flu Immunization program, the National Vaccine program, and certain provisions of both the Federal Employers Liability Act and the Jones Act. That is just mentioning a few. 
I wish that the liability provisions in the underlying bill mirrored the liability provisions in my bill--which is modeled on those in the freely-bargained for June 20 settlement. Without those liability provisions which were gained through tough negotiations between 40 state attorney generals and the leading trial lawyers and agreed to by the industry, the industry will not participate to the fullest extent possible in any tobacco bill program. 
So I must oppose both this amendment and the underlying bill because I think that the bi-partisan group of 40 state attorneys general and the leading trial lawyers in this country got it right the first time. 
I urge my colleagues to reject this amendment and reject the Commerce Committee bill. 
What we should do is pass legislation that closely models the settlement proposal brought to us last year by the 40 state attorney generals and the leading plaintiffs' lawyers in this country. 
Having said all that, let me just conclude with these thoughts: There is no doubt in my mind the only way this is ever going to work without 10 years of litigation--and 10 million more kids unnecessarily put at greater risk--and a decision by the courts that the bill that is currently being argued on the floor is unconstitutional, is to get back to as close to the attorneys general agreement as we can. Yes, we can add some money to that agreement. It can be higher than the $368.5 billion, but it should be a reasonable amount that gets the companies back on board. 
There is no guarantee by anybody that the companies are going to come back on board, but I think there is a pretty good guarantee they won't come back on board under the financial and other requirements of this particular bill, or without the incentive of having some reasonable form of limited liability. 
If we can't do these things in a fair and reasonable manner, then why in the world should the tobacco companies come back and voluntarily agree to pay what really involves hundreds of billions of dollars, and without some protections for them with regard to future class action suits? 
The industry has agreed that individual suits can be brought and brought with the aid of a document repository. With all the documents, it seems to me it would be easier to bring those individual suits. It would be easier to recover, and in my opinion, you don't need the punitive damages, because you will have a right to compensatory damages which is everything that you can possibly argue before a jury except punitive damages. 
I have to say, as a former trial lawyer, I never needed punitive damages to get high verdicts in the cases I tried, and I don't think these plaintiffs' lawyers that we know today who will handle the bulk of the cases in the future will have any difficulties handling compensatory damages and getting very adequate awards for their clients from here on in. Unlike Jimmy McArdle, who had the world to fight as the first litigant attorney in Prichard v. Liggett & Myers in the early 1960s, attorneys today will have everything going for them because of the tobacco settlement. 
This law will work if we do this right. That will be a tremendous change from what poor Jimmy McArdle had to go through in the early days of Prichard v. Liggett & Myers. I remember that case. I was watching it closely. I was hoping he would win. I felt there was little likelihood he would win in Pennsylvania at that particular time because we didn't know then what we know today about the tobacco companies, about this industry and about what this industry has done to entice children to use their products. 
I just have to tell you, if we keep doing what we are doing here on the floor, we will have millions more children exposed to a greater risk than they should and be exposed to during the course of the new litigation which could last for 10 years or so. Some of these children will ultimately die prematurely because of this increased risk as this litigation proceeds. 
What is really unfortunate is that at the end of that litigation you will find that if this bill passes--the managers' amendment in its current form--the tobacco companies will likely prevail on a number of important matters. Then, where are we? 
That means we would have let the American people down by passing legislation that will not work. And in the end, we would have done a lot of unnecessary harm to millions of children, and we will only have to start all over again, and we may not have a group of tobacco companies willing to deal at that time as they have with the attorneys general and plaintiffs' lawyers as we had under the June 20th proposal. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to yield without losing my right to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. You are welcome. 
A critical component of our debate must be the issue of this bill's constitutionality. This is a matter of extreme seriousness. 
We are considering a bill that is fundamentally flawed with respect to its constitutionality. And that is despite the fact that each one of us swore to uphold the Constitution of the United States of America when we were elected and sworn into this office. 
Many skeptics, particularly in the media, contend that Congress will pass for political reasons any measure that gains any sort of consensus, even if it violates the Constitution. 
I reject that. I certainly hope they are wrong. I believe that the most important job that members of Congress have is to protect, preserve, and defend the Constitution of the United States. And, as Judiciary Committee chairman, I take this job very seriously. 
Why? The answer is, for over 2 centuries the Constitution has been the genesis of our liberty and a source of America's amazing growth and prosperity. 
The Constitution fosters liberty and prosperity by circumscribing Government's ability to interfere in the lives of the people. Thus, our Government is termed one of limited powers. 
In fact, I believe that the structure of the Constitution--the separation of powers, checks and balances, and federalism--and not the system of courts, is the best protection of our liberties. 
The salient fact is that the Constitution itself was designed to be, in the words of Alexander Hamilton in the Federalist No. 84, `in every rational sense, and to every useful purpose, a bill of rights.' 
One such constitutional mechanism to protect liberty is limiting Congress' legislative authority to only those laws that are reasonably derived from its enumerated powers contained in Article I of the Constitution, which in practice means that such laws must be consistent with the meaning of the Constitution's provisions and the Bill of Rights. As such, Congress has a special role in defending the Constitution and safeguarding our liberty by policing itself and by controlling its own appetites. 
I wholeheartedly agree with the sentiment of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, who in 1904 gave the opinion that, `It must be remembered that legislatures are the ultimate guardians of the liberties and welfare of the people in quite as great degree as the court[s].' 
So this is why we are having this debate--to exercise our authority to ensure that any legislation that is passed is, in fact, constitutional. Let us confound the cynics by doing the right thing. 
I pray that the Senate will consider the constitutionality of the floor vehicle and any other bill offered as a substitute. To skirt this issue would be to violate our very oaths of office. 
I believe that the bill now being considered in this chamber suffers from a number of serious constitutional problems. 
These problems permeate the bill. 
Besides jurisprudential concerns, there are significant practical considerations, because passage of the bill could result in constitutional challenges that, if successful, will nullify the key sections of the bill. This is true for the bill as reported, the bill as rewritten over the weekend, and the bill as modified on the floor on Monday. Removal of many `consensual' items to a new 
title XIV has not addressed these concerns. 
Mr. President, if key provisions in the bill are nullified, the efforts of Congress to enact an effective and truly comprehensive antismoking, antisnuff, plan will be severely impaired and virtually nothing will have been done to effectively reduce youth smoking. 
I want to stress that the constitutional problems primarily arise because the Commerce version and several other major bills have moved from being a codification of the June 20, 1997, proposed agreement--which contemplated voluntary participation of the tobacco companies--to tax-and-spend and command-and-control legislation. 
Without the voluntary participation of the tobacco companies--and the State attorneys general--both the so-called `look-back' provisions and advertising restrictions contained in this Commerce bill become constitutionally problematic. These and other constitutional problems raise first amendment, bill of attainder, takings clause, and due process clause issues. 
More specifically, without the voluntary cooperation of the parties, the advertising ban contained in S. 1415 as amended will probably fall. This is a shame, because almost all health experts believe that restricting advertising is necessary in order to reduce teen smoking. The advertising restrictions in the Commerce bill are contained in both the protocol and in a section that codifies an FDA rule that also restricts otherwise lawful tobacco advertising. 
The Supreme Court, in the 1996 decision 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, emphasized that any restrictions on truthful advertising must receive the highest scrutiny, and be narrowly tailored to meet the statutory goal. They required that other less restrictive alternatives be employed to resolve problems before speech is censored. 
The majority of scholars and lawyers who have looked at the issue agree that unless the tobacco companies voluntarily waive their constitutional rights, which is what they did in the June 20, 1997, agreement, most restrictions on the advertising of a lawful product, such as tobacco, would run afoul of the first amendment. 
Indeed, most conclude that the restrictions contained in the protocol and FDA rule are not narrowly tailored and that other alternatives exist to reduce teen smoking. 
Experts from the left to the right agree. Professor Laurence Tribe of Harvard Law School; Judge Robert Bork; Floyd Abrams, one of the most notable first amendment lawyers; the liberal ACLU and the conservative Washington Legal Foundation, all oppose these advertising restrictions as unconstitutional. It does not matter whether the restrictions arise from the codified FDA rule or in the settlement itself, both are unconstitutional. Let me just read to you some of their views. 
Let us take the testimony of Floyd Abrams before the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 10, 1998: 
Any legislation of Congress which would purport to do by law what the proposed settlement would do by agreement in terms of restricting constitutionally protected commercial speech, is, in my estimation, destined to be held unconstitutional. . . . It is unlikely that, at the end of the day, the FDA's proposed regulations could survive First Amendment scrutiny. 
That was given before the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 10, 1998. 
Let me go to the next chart here. These are quotes by the American Civil Liberties Union to the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 20, 1998.  
Both the legislation and proposed regulation by the Food and Drug Administration. . .are wholly unprecedented and, if enacted, will most likely fail to withstand constitutional challenges. 
There are solid arguments. 
Let us go to the next one. 
The next chart is of Judge Robert Bork, dated January 16, 1996, when he said: 
The recent proposal of the FDA to restrict severely the First Amendment rights of American companies and individuals who, in one way or another, have any connection with tobacco products [is]. . .patently unconstitutional under the Supreme Court's current doctrine concerning commercial speech as well as under the original understanding of the First Amendment. 
Those are very strong arguments from well-established constitutional authorities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. There are other provisions of the bill that are constitutionally infirm. 
The look-back penalties in the Commerce bill, which are imposed on the tobacco companies if teen smoking does not meet certain goals for reduction, are subject to constitutional challenge unless they are voluntarily agreed to by the tobacco companies. 
I must add that the Commerce bill now terms the penalties `surcharges,' but this simply is an attempt to elevate form over substance. No matter how it is termed, these payments are the functional equivalent of fines. 
Chief among the grounds for challenging this provision is due process. 
The Supreme Court has held that imposed penalties must be related to the objective of the legislation. Penalties should not be imposed without a showing of fault. I refer you to the Vlandis v. Kline case (412 U.S. 441) in 1973 which held that penalties without fault create an `irrebuttable presumption.' 
Given what we know--or do not know--about how teens react to advertising, it is possible that even if the tobacco industry does all that it can to prevent teen smoking, the target will not be met. 
Moreover, besides the look-back penalties, the Commerce bill contains an additional provision that companies lose their liability cap protection if underage smoking exceeds the targets by a set amount. This is also done without a showing of fault. 
Thus, it is clear that a court would interpret the Commerce bill's penalties as punitive. It is possible, then, that the look-back provisions could fall under the provision in the Constitution that prohibits Congress from passing a bill of attainder. 
I refer my colleagues to the Cummings v. Missouri case (71 U.S. 277) in 1867. George III and the Parliament had used bills of attainder to punish their political enemies, and the framers of the Constitution wisely forbade Congress from doing the same. 
Certain payments made by the industry raise fifth amendment takings clause issues. For instance, it could be argued that some of the payments made by the industry constitute a forced seizure of money. The initial $10 billion up-front payment and the first six annual payments are owed regardless of whether there are any tobacco-related incomes and regardless of whether there are any tobacco sales. 
I might also direct my colleagues attention to a new provision which extends liability to the parent companies of tobacco subsidiaries, such as R.J. Reynolds and Philip Morris, just to mention two. The effect of that provision would be to extend the penalties to the conglomerates' food business, for example, even though they have independent operations and no fault on their part has been shown. 
These payments can neither be characterized as a tax or a licensing fee and would constitute uncompensated takings under the fifth amendment. I refer, for example, to Webb's Fabulous Pharmacies, Inc. v. Beckwith (499 U.S. 155, 162-163), a 1980 case where cash and bank account seizures were held to be uncompensated takings under the fifth amendment. 
The current version of the Commerce bill requires all tobacco manufacturers to release attorney-client and work product documents to the FDA and establish, finance, and run a document depository. Now, while this is a worthwhile goal, 
I believe that the wrongdoings of the tobacco companies have been hidden for far too long and this information should be brought to the light of day to help the FDA in regulating tobacco and assuring the public health. 
What some of my colleagues fail to appreciate is that it must be done in a constitutional manner, or it is all for naught. 
We must remember that the June 20 settlement agreement presupposed voluntarily participation by the tobacco companies in 
releasing proprietary documents and in establishing and financing the document depository. While litigation documents already made public can be forwarded to the FDA, it is problematic that the industry could be required to release additional documents, especially work product, confidential, or privileged documents. Such documents are properly defined by the fifth amendment. I refer you, for example, to the Nika Corp. v. City of Kansas City (582 F.Supp. 343 (W.D.Mo.)), a 1983 case, where the corporation's documents were held to constitute property under the fifth amendment. 
Moreover, pursuant to the same theory, the forced funding by the industry of the depository--the leasing of the building, the salaries of the personnel--indeed as for any confiscation of cash or other valuable assets, would constitute a taking under the fifth amendment requiring compensation. I refer you to Webb's Fabulous Pharmacies, Inc. 
Let me conclude my remarks by saying unless we have the voluntarily participation of the tobacco industry, I doubt that a comprehensive bill like the present Commerce bill could be implemented. Such a bill will undoubtedly be successfully challenged in the courts, and I believe the litigation and the inevitable appeals could take years to resolve. 
In other words, I make the case that if this bill passes in its current form, without the cooperation of the tobacco companies, which will be the case, then it will be litigated for at least 10 years. 
And in the end, I believe, it is likely to be overturned because it will be found unconstitutional. If that is so, then we are risking the lives of 10 million more kids who will become addicted to tobacco and die prematurely as a result of our failure to do the right thing, right now, on the floor of the Senate and in the House of Representatives. 
It is important that these constitutional issues be addressed. It is important we not ignore the Constitution. It is important that we uphold the Constitution. 
I know that the health of our children is of paramount concern to all of my colleagues. So let us at least do the right thing and pass a bill that is constitutional. The protection of the Constitution and the promotion of public health are not inconsistent goals. The American people demand both and we should give it to them. 
I hope all who are here today will pause a moment to consider this. 
This total cost of this bill has been estimated by some to be $516 billion, although I believe it is far higher. 
It is estimated that the bill will result in a price per pack cost increase of $1.10 per pack, although this is at the manufacturers' level and I believe it will go higher. 
There are a whole raft of other add-on costs not included in the $1.10 figure: the wholesaler and retailer markups; the impact of growing contraband sales which divert revenues; possible triggering of the look-back provisions; and new state excise taxes. That is why several analysts who have done detailed economic models have concluded that the cost will be over $5 per pack, or over $50 per carton, of cigarettes. 
These are important considerations. 
If we do not rectify the situation and approve a constitutional measure, then I think everybody who votes for this bill would deserve a great deal of criticism for what has happened. What really bothers me, to be honest with you, is how some who represent the public health community choose to ignore these issues. Their motives seem to be directed more at punishing the tobacco companies than at securing a tough, workable bill. 
Nobody dislikes the tobacco companies more than I do, and nobody has fought harder to try to get the tobacco companies put in line. 
But frankly, unless they come on board, unless we can bring them to the table, this whole thing could amount to an exercise in futility. The constitutionality issue is key here, and I just don't see how we can continue to ignore it.  
Mr. DASCHLE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to respond to a floor speech my good friend and colleague Senator Leahy recently delivered. In that address, Senator Leahy once again brought attention to the so-called vacancy crisis that is facing our Federal Judiciary. Now, I don't blame Senator Leahy for that. After all, that is his job. He needs to press us a bit to move judges for the Clinton Administration. And indeed, we had some disconnects in the past that prevented us from holding hearings on perhaps as many judges as we would have liked. 
That having been said, I am pleased that Senator Leahy and I have worked out some of the kinks in the process and have worked together to ensure that qualified nominees are confirmed. Similarly, I am happy to report that I have worked over the last few months with White House Counsel Chuck Ruff to ensure that the nomination and confirmation process is a collaborative one between the White House and members of the Senate. I think it's fair to say that after a few bumpy months in which the process suffered due to inadequate consultation between the White House and some Senators, the process is now working rather smoothly. I think the progress is due to the White House's renewed commitment to good faith consultation with Senators of both parties. I also want to compliment Senator Leahy for his willingness to work with me to get hearings scheduled for nominees. Let me take a moment, however, to correct some of the pernicious myths that persist on the subject of the confirmation process. 
Quite simply, contrary to what you may have read in the popular press, there is no general vacancy crisis. So far this year, the Senate has confirmed 26 of President Clinton's nominees. We have confirmed a total of 62 Judges this Congress, in addition to a number of Executive branch nominees. In fact, 266 active Federal Judges, or roughly 35% of all sitting Article III judges, were appointed by this Administration. As of today there are 768 active Federal Judges. What does that number mean? It means that there are currently more sitting federal judges hearing cases than in any previous administration. In fact, since becoming Chairman, I have yet to cast a vote against a single Clinton judicial nominee. 
Just as a matter of comparison, at this point in the 101st and 102nd Congress when George Bush was president and Democrats controlled the Senate, there were only 711 and 716 active judges, respectively. Thus, we have 50 more sitting federal judges today than we did in 1992, yet some would have us believe that our federal courts are being overwhelmed by a tidal wave of cases. 
Keep in mind that the Clinton administration is on record as having stated that 63 vacancies is virtual full employment of the federal judiciary. The Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts lists the current number of federal judicial vacancies as 76, a far cry from the `nearly 100' I have heard some claim. In fact, by the administration's own admission we are 13 judges away from a fully employed federal judiciary. Which begs the question: if we are only 13 judges away from full employment how can we be mired in a vacancy crisis? Only 13 judges out of 843 authorized--I think it is time to put the vacancy crisis argument to rest. 
Moreover, let's compare today's vacancy level of 76, with those that existed during the early 1990's when the Democratic and Republican parties' fortunes were reversed. In May of 1991, there were 148 federal judicial vacancies. One year later, in May of 1992, there were 117 federal judicial vacancies. I remember those years. I don't, however, remember one comment about it in the media. I don't recall one television show mentioning it. I don't recall one writer writing about it. Nobody seemed to care. Nobody, that is, except the Chief Justice of the United States, William Rehnquist. Back then, in his year-end report, he called upon the Democratically controlled Senate to confirm more judges, much like he did this past year. Yet no one seemed too concerned about the Chief Justice's comments back then. Now, when we have a Democrat in the White House, all of a sudden it has become a crisis when we have virtually half the vacancies today that we had in 1991. And it becomes a crisis even though the Chief Justice's message is virtually the same now as it was back then. 
I also think it important to note that at the end of the Bush Administration, there were 115 vacancies, for which 55 nominees were pending before the Judiciary committee. None of those 55 nominees even received the courtesy of a hearing, however. Compare this to the 65 vacancies remaining at the end of President Clinton's first term. I think there is quite a difference. 
Some have mentioned a deliberate effort among Republican members 
of the Senate to unduly delay the confirmation of Judicial nominees. Nothing could be further from the truth. The judiciary committee has in fact processed nominees at a remarkably fast pace this session. Of the 25 nominees currently pending in the Judiciary committee without a hearing, 10 were received since April. Today, there are only 5 nominees pending on the Senate Floor, and I expect that we will vote on their confirmations before the session ends. 
A good deal has been said by critics with regard to the vacancies on the Second and Ninth Circuits. It is true that these two circuits have had unusual difficulties. It should be mentioned, however, that nominations to the Ninth Circuit were held up to decide whether the Circuit should be split or not. Now that a commission is in place to study that issue, we have been able to move a number of Ninth Circuit nominations. In fact, we have confirmed more judges to the Ninth Circuit --three--than to any other circuit. Of the five Ninth Circuit judges still pending in the Senate, two have had hearings and one is pending on the floor. We received two of the other nominees only this session. And there are still vacancies remaining on that circuit--two vacancies of which have not even received a nominees. And one of those vacancies has been open since December of 1996. 
This represents a failure not on the part of the Judiciary Committee but on the Clinton Administration. President Clinton's failure to nominate judges expeditiously has in fact slowed the process, as the committee is left with an increasingly smaller base of qualified nominees to hold hearings on. In fact, fewer than half of the current vacancies have nominees pending, with many of those having incomplete paperwork. Rather than succumbing to the petulance of finger pointing, we all would be better served by an administration committed to sending us qualified nominees as expeditiously as possible. 
Now, we also acknowledge that there have been problems with confirming nominees to the Second Circuit, but we have made a strong effort to ameliorate them. Unfortunately an unexpected illnesses have taken their toll on the Second Circuit, but we have done our part in committee. Two of the four nominees to that court are pending on the Senate floor, the other two recently had a hearing, and I expect will be voted out of Committee on Thursday. 
Apparently, President Clinton has not shared this sense of urgency with regard to the Second Circuit. In fact, of the five current vacancies on that court, one sat without a nominee for almost two years, another did not receive a nominee for over ten months, and the other waited just over eight months to receive a nominee. Most disturbing of all is the seat vacated by Senior Judge Jon Newman, vacant since July 1, 1997, which is yet to receive a nominee. As I have stated so often before, I'm a pretty good chairman of the Judiciary Committee, but I can't get judges confirmed that have not been nominated. 
Now, while the debate about vacancy rates on our federal courts is not unimportant, it remains more important that the Senate perform its advice and consent function thoroughly and responsibly. Federal judges serve for life and perform an important constitutional function, without direct political accountability to the people. Accordingly, the Senate should never move too quickly on nominations before it. Just this past year we saw two examples of what can happen when we try to move nominations along perhaps too quickly. In one instance, a nominee for a federal district court was reported out of the Judiciary Committee before all the details of her record as a state trial judge were known. As it happens, the District Attorney in the nominee's city, who happened to be of her party, and the district attorneys' association in her home state all publicly opposed the nomination, setting forth facts demonstrating a very serious anti-prosecution bias in her judicial record. It's cases like these that underscore the importance of proceeding very deliberately with nominations for these most important life-tenured positions. 
Let me make an important point here: federal judges should not be confirmed simply as part of a numbers game to reduce the vacancy rate to a particular level. While I plan to continue to oversee a fair and principled confirmation process, as I always have, I want to emphasize that the primary criteria in this process is not how many vacancies need to be filled, but whether President Clinton's nominees are qualified to serve on the bench, and will not, upon receiving their judicial commission, spend a lifetime career rendering politically motivated, activist decisions. The Senate has an obligation to the American people thoroughly to review the records of the nominees it receives to ensure that they are capable and qualified to serve as federal judges, and as part of that assessment of qualification, to ensure that nominees properly understand the limitations of the judicial role. 
Clearly, I believe the Committee has done its part. I hope to continue to work with the Administration and with Senator Leahy to ensure that qualified individuals will serve on the federal bench.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, since the Civil War, more than 1.1 million American veterans have lost their lives in service to our Nation. I am humbled by their sacrifice. 
I am grateful for the price they have paid for our liberty, the terrible price of individual lives, of men and women who were part of families. As we approach this Memorial Day, I want to pause a moment during this debate to remember their gift. 
I am especially proud of Utah's proud tradition of honorable service. The story of the Mormon pioneers who made the grueling trek across the plains and over the Great Divide to escape persecution, in search of religious freedom is well known. Perhaps less well known is the story of the Mormon battalion. 
Mr. President, in 1846, while there was an active order in effect in the state of Missouri for the extermination of Mormons, these Americans who had been driven from their homes in Nauvoo, Illinois, were asked to assemble a battalion of 500 men. With their ranks and strength already significantly depleted by disease, hardship, and persecution, most would have understood if the story had ended with an indignant refusal to respond to the request. 
Instead, led by Brigham Young, these fathers, brothers, and sons who had seen their rights as Americans trampled, stepped forward to answer their country's call. I might mention that among them was a young man named Orrin Hatch. 
This same, passionate willingness to serve one's country still thrives throughout my state. I remember today and honor the 147,000 veterans throughout the state of Utah who have honorably served. But, on Memorial Day, we especially remember those who left in service to our country but who did not return. They have preserved freedom for all generations who followed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to rise today along with my good friend and colleague, Senator Bennett, as a cosponsor of the Arches National Park Expansion Act of 1998. This is an inexpensive, practical, common-sense proposal that has gathered widespread support. 
Arches National Park is known world-wide for its spectacular canyons and rock formations. When Arches National Park was created 25 years ago, the park boundaries were set with little regard to naturally occurring borders. Specifically, Lost Springs Canyon, located in the northeast corner of the park, was divided in half by the park boundaries. 
Mr. President, this worthwhile legislation would expand the boundaries of the park by approximately 3,140 acres, incorporating the Lost Spring Canyon. The new, expanded boundary would better follow the natural borders dictated by the position of the canyon rim rather than the section lines and manmade features. Adding Lost Spring Canyon to the 73,400 acres already included in Arches National Park would bring a variety of new arches, balanced rocks, spires, and other geologic features under park protection and management. The addition of Lost Spring Canyon would also include the option of a `back-country' experience in Arches National Park. 
The widespread support this bill enjoys is the result of careful efforts to balance competing interests. The Utah School Trust, the Grand Canyon Trust, the National Parks and Conservation Association, and the National Park Services have voiced support for the proposed bill. Local officials, interest groups, and a majority of the residents of Grand County have been consulted for input and are also supportive of the boundary change. 
Again, I am pleased to cosponsor the Arches National Park Expansion Act of 1998. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield for a question without losing his right to the floor? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The $868 billion is one of the estimates, is it not---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Of Wall Street analysts who have thoroughly developed tobacco models, economic models, and have spent literally years developing these models? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. They say that when you extrapolate out the $1.10 price of the Commerce Committee bill--or the managers' amendment as I think we should call it--the actual price tag could range as high as $868 billion, because the $1.10 number is based solely on the manufacturers' level and does not count the wholesale or retail markups or any other factors which could lead to price increases, such as state excise taxes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am saying the $1.50 would be even higher, wouldn't it? That is what I am asking. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The $1.50 number is certain to be even higher? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could I also ask my friend another question? Those who are arguing for a $1.50 price increase are saying there will be 
no black market, that there will be no smuggling any consequence. Is it not true that after California raised its excise tax in 1988, today they are finding that one out of five packs of cigarettes are contraband today. Is that not true? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just show you this chart in connection with my next question. It is one thing to talk about Norway, Denmark and the United Kingdom as some have in this body. It is entirely another thing to talk about the United States of America where most of the big tobacco companies actually reside and exist. 
This chart shows U.S. cigarette imports from Canada, 1984 through 1996. You notice it was relatively level here up until 1990, when Canada suddenly increased their excise taxes dramatically. Then, all of a sudden we have imports from Canada going up dramatically. There were U.S. cigarette imports from Canada in 1984, imports which then went back into Canada and sold as contraband at a lower price. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Senator serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee with me, and I believe is fully aware of the hearings, where we discussed the fact that four major law enforcement organizations representing hundreds of thousands of policemen in this country said that if we go to $1.10, which we believe could extrapolate as high as $800 billion, that we would have a dramatic increase in contraband which would spawn all sorts of violence?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Senator is aware of these compelling arguments from law enforcement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator will yield---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Would the Senator continue to yield to me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have a series of questions I want to ask. I did enjoy and appreciate the questions asked by the distinguished Senator from Texas, because he raised a lot of very important points that were brought out in the Judiciary Committee's hearings. 
Keep in mind, when the Treasury Department testified before the Judiciary Committee, I sent a letter to Secretary Rubin beforehand asking for the economic model they had used to justify their forecast. All they brought was a five-line chart--no model, no backup justification, no real economic analysis. 
We had three of the top Wall Street analysts come in and provide us with very highly thought-through analysis showing that the price of cigarettes per pack could go up somewhere between $4.68, $4.78 and $5.00 or thereabouts. And that is on the basis of the Treasury's projected $1.10 increase, not the $1.50 figure we are debating today. 
Now, my friend and colleague, Senator Kennedy, has made a passionate plea here for $1.50. That would mean at a minimum an additional 40 cents more on each pack of cigarettes, although it will probably be higher. That is at the manufacturer's level. That does not count all the extrapolated things the distinguished Senator from Missouri has talked about. 
Is that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Senator from Massachusetts has suggested that the bill increase each pack of cigarettes by $1.50 instead of $1.10. 
Of course, everybody knows that the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts and I share a common goal of reducing youth smoking, as evidenced by the Hatch-Kennedy bill which was enacted last year. That bill added an excise tax to reduce youth smoking and to help with child health insurance. 
But is the Senator aware that there is no proof that raising the price by $1.50 per pack would reduce youth smoking by 60 percent as has been alleged? Are you aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Not any? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware there is domestic and international evidence that such a price increase will worsen problems for law enforcement officers and lower-income taxpayers? 
Now our colleague from Massachusetts showed a chart of Canadian cigarette prices and youth smoking over time. Let me point out that chart also demonstrates how youth smoking is not predicted by price. 
Between 1979 and 1981, Canadian prices were static, but youth smoking decreased by 10 percent. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right. Our colleague from Massachusetts also suggested we can use the Canadian experience to predict American youth behavior. If true, then American and Canadian youths smoke for the same reasons--peer pressure and status. Many experts agree that status smoking, like $150 tennis shoes, is far less price sensitive. Even a $1.50 price increase will fail in head-to-head competition with ads like this in Sports Illustrated for Camel. Here is an attractive model smoking a cigarette--`What you're looking for' the advertisement says. 
The fact of the matter is that many members of the scientific and medical communities do not see as essential a price increase of up $1.50. 
Is the Senator aware that after following 13,000 kids for 4 years, Dr. Philip DeCicca of Cornell University, in a National Cancer Institute funded study--a National Cancer Institute funded study, a public health study, if you will--found `Little evidence that taxes reduce smoking onset between 8th and 12th grade'? Are you aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Dr. DeCicca's analysis is even more compelling when you look at our principal target, those kids who never smoked. He found that the effect of price on the probability of starting to smoke by grade 12 was essentially zero, zip, zero; that price did not influence them. Children were going to use tobacco products anyway because of peer pressure and status. It had no effect. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This study is crucial because it is perhaps the only scientific study tracking the smoking behaviors of the same kids over a period of time. All other studies have relied on a cross-sectional analysis of unlike communities. 
Now, is the Senator aware that just a few days ago the Congressional Research Service released its updated report, `The Proposed Tobacco Settlement Effects on Prices, Smoking Behavior and Income Distribution,' where they carefully reviewed the scientific literature on the effects of price on youth usage? 
Now, let me just quote from that report. And I want to ask the Senator if he is aware of this? 
The findings in these studies cast doubt on the large participation elasticities that were initially assumed in formulating policies to reduce teen smoking. 
Perhaps this is true because while 36.5 percent of youth have smoked in the past month, only 14.3 percent of youth smoked more than 10 cigarettes each day. Experts believe addicted persons are less responsive to price. 
Now, let us not fool ourselves. Kids are different from adults and often unpredictable. 
Is the Senator aware of those facts? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I believe the Senator will remember, if he will, that Dr. Frank Chaloupka, who testified before the Judiciary Committee, has written: `Youth and young adults have been found to be less responsive to price than older groups.' 
Is the Senator aware of that?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Our colleague from Massachusetts showed a chart entitled, `Cigarette Prices and Daily Cigarette Smoking Among Canadians Age 15 through 19' which he suggested concludes the price increase caused all of the reduced youth smoking. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me bring to the Senator's attention, during that same period, U.S. youth smoking decreased by 40 percent. So much for that argument of the Senator from Massachusetts. Were you aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have one final concern about the chart displayed by our colleague from Massachusetts on tobacco use and price. That chart ended in 1991. It did not include any data since then. I want to show you this chart again. 
This chart shows the growth of Canadian exports to the United States. You will notice up until 1991 the growth was minimal, hardly at all. And then it moved suddenly up. The Judiciary Committee heard testimony that most of these cigarettes were smuggled back into Canada. Now, since smugglers do not seek IDs, I suspect youth were able to easily obtain bootleg cigarettes at an affordable price. Maybe this is why we have not seen the smoking prevalence rates and prices beyond 1991; perhaps that is why the chart of the Senator from Massachusetts ended there. 
But this is when they hiked up the excise tax in Canada. Look how the imports from Canada to the United States went up. Of course, they continued to just skyrocket because they were sending their exports to the United States and then the contraband was coming back. 
Only when they had to voluntarily reduce their prices did their exports to the United States go down. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If you listen closely to the debate, you will hear some assert with mathematical certainty that we need to increase the tax on cigarettes by $1.10 a pack, or $1.50 a pack, or by $2 per pack to get the maximum health impact in terms of youth participation rates. 
We saw that yesterday in the arguments from the Senator from Massachusetts and the Senator from North Dakota, respectively. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could finish my questions to the person who has access to the floor. 
And we have heard more today along those lines. 
Now, we will hear about the Surgeon Generals' reports, about the Institute Of Medicine report, about the Chaloupka study. Is the Senator aware of the widely-cited findings that for every 10 cents that the price of tobacco goes up we can expect to see a 7-percent decrease in youth smoking? Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me go further. I am sorry to take so much of the Senator's time, but I think it is important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Those figures sound impressive at first, but we need to stop and question how applicable such a study is for a complex adolescent social behavior and for the price increases we are debating today. Are there not limits to extrapolating this estimate into the price range that we are talking about today? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have been asking questions one right after the other. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware--and I apologize to my colleagues. I do want to get through this, because this is important. The distinguished Senator has raised these issues. He deserves a lot of credit. 
And, secondly, I point out that the other side had a lot of time last night and this morning to talk about their positions on this. The record should be made clear that many of their allegations are incorrect. I believe the evidence shows that they are incorrect. I think the Senator's answers to my questions will help to show that there is a dramatically different explanation for many of the charts which have been displayed here last night and this morning. 
Let me ask some more questions. Is the Senator aware there must be some limits to extrapolating this estimate into the price 
range we are talking about, because if we just straight-lined this projection to a $1.50 increase, we would have to expect that literally all youth smoking would cease? That would be news to those many countries with cigarette prices which are more than $1.50 higher than in the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask the Senator if he is aware of this? First, I believe both intuitively as a parent and grandparent many times over, and from examining the data, that if we raise the price of a product like cigarettes, as a general matter, we can expect children to purchase less of it--at least that is the common economic thought. But having said that, and, after all, it is a simple matter of economics that other factors are held constant. As price goes up, we can expect quantity and demand to go down. 
I want to take just a few minutes to look behind the actual data of some of the frequently cited studies. Is the Senator aware that a fair reading of the literature suggests we are not dealing with some sort of simple, timeless, immutable algorithm when we are dealing with the price/elasticity issue? 
Is the Senator aware of that? He has been making that case here this morning. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask the Senator, isn't it reasonable to question that a difference between the $1.10 tax and the $1.50 will not necessarily mean 800,000 premature deaths? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware it is unclear if such an analysis is focusing on tax receipts made to the Treasury or the actual at-the-cash-register price? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Price is undoubtedly a key factor. I hope I have reviewed some of the key data, and I ask if the Senator does agree with me that we should not overemphasize price alone and, so to speak, put all of our eggs into that one price basket? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Would the Senator agree, in my view we can be most successful in meeting our public health goals by coming up with a `basket' of antitobacco policies that would include price increases, counteradvertising, public education, enhanced enforcement measures, cessation programs, and marketing and advertising restrictions that go way beyond what the Constitution would allow us to legislate?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Does the Senator agree we should come up with a comprehensive package of mutually reinforcing policies, that if we come up with a package at all, overreliance on price strategy could be misplaced? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-37-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences issued a report calling on the nation to take action to reduce tobacco use? Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-38-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me ask the Senator if he is aware of just a few short excerpts from one paragraph of the 36-page report. The focus is on the need for the level of required price increases. `Raising the prices of tobacco products is a proven way of reducing tobacco use in the short and medium terms. Price hikes encourage the cessation and thwart initiation. Higher prices have the added benefit of reducing use among people not yet addicted to nicotine, including young people whose level of tobacco consumption may be even more sensitive to price. The impact and simplicity of price hikes were the main reason for the 1994 IOM report's first recommendation of a $2 per pack cigarette tax increase.' 
Now the paragraph notes that this recommendation is consistent with the Koop-Kessler report and the National Cancer Policy Board, which it notes calls for a $2 price increase before concluding with this following sentence: `Such a price increase should also have the desired disproportionately greater impact on preventing the initiation of tobacco use among young people.' 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-39-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me ask if the Senator agrees. In fairly categorical language, a price hike in the $2 range is characterized as a `proven way to cut youth smoking.' In fact, it almost sounds like the $2 per pack comes right out of a mathematical formula. 
The more something costs, the less of it a kid can probably afford. In an era of $150-a-pair Air Jordans, we must allow for the possibility that what kids will do, particularly when social status is involved, can be a tricky, sometimes counterintuitive behavior that can involve a lot more than just sheer price. 
Does the Senator agree with me on that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-40-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Having set out the 1998 IOM study, I compare its tone and ask the Senator if he agrees with the April 1998 CBO report called `The Proposed Tobacco Settlement: Issue From a Federal Perspective?' 
Now, this CBO paper examines the literature and paints a far murkier picture of the state of evidence than did the IOM study. For example, the first sentence of this section, entitled `Response of Youth' states--and I ask the Senator if he is aware of this quote--`In contrast with the consistent responsiveness of adults to changes in price, the evidence on how young people respond is highly variable?' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-41-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Congressional Budget Office report: Is the Senator aware of the Congressional Budget Office report reviewing many of the same studies relied upon in the earlier 1994 Institute of Medicine study, and in the 1994 Surgeon General's report entitled `Preventing Tobacco Use Among Young People'? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-42-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It is very important to this debate, it seems to me. 
Does the Senator agree with me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-43-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It would seem to me that anybody who is intelligently watching this debate would want to consider this. Is that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-44-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The CBO catalogued a wide range of elasticity and reports, `Most findings are on the high side of the range.' However, the Congressional Budget Office next cites two studies based on the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey that found elasticities near zero. After summarizing the data for a series of studies, the Congressional Budget Office discussed a Cornell study that employed a longitudinal methodology as opposed to a cross-sectional analysis undertaken by most studies. 
It said in the Congressional Budget Office report, `The participation elasticities that DeCicca and colleagues estimated for each followup were similar to those found in the cross sectional studies. The Congressional Budget Office considered roughly 0.5 to 0.70. However, they found that when children who were already smoking at the time of the first survey in the eighth grade were excluded from the analysis, the effect of price on the probability of starting to smoke by the 12th grade was essentially zero. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-45-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This study found, after excluding those already smoking in eighth grade, that the effect of price on the probability of starting to smoke by the 12th grade was essentially zero. 
The Congressional Budget Office made the following comment with respect to this study: `Findings should be troubling to those who look forward to a large increase in tobacco prices as a foolproof means of reducing rates of youth smoking. It is possible that existing studies showing high price elasticity among teens and young adults which use similar State level adjusters may have inadequately controlled the effect of the community environment.' 
Is the Senator aware of that quote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-46-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It is a very important quote. That certainly does not seem to echo the almost unequivocal of some other studies. 
To be fair, the Congressional Budget Office concludes that most of the evidence does, in fact, point to a relatively high price elasticity for young adults but concludes this discussion with the cautionary note that all the would-be social engineers, it seems to me, should take to heart. We have plenty of them around here. `Most of the evidence points to a relatively high total price elasticity of tobacco consumption among teenagers. But those estimates could be exceedingly optimistic. How young people would respond to large changes in the price of cigarettes remains, like many of their behaviors, uncertain.' 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-47-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator also aware that, unlike the Institute of Medicine, the Congressional Budget Office reads the studies and concludes that the data suggests a level of uncertainty 
on the price issue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-48-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let's be honest here. There are many uncertainties here. We are talking about tobacco price increases never before contemplated or experienced in our country. But as we listen to this debate, I think it would be wise for all of us to heed the words of caution by the Congressional Budget Office when we hear someone say that all the public health experts agree that price is the single most effective way to cut youth consumption. 
Does the Senator agree with me on that statement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-49-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If data were unequivocal on the price issue, as some have already argued, or will argue, in this debate, how is it that the Congressional Budget Office--I ask the Senator this --felt compelled to so carefully qualify what some characterize as a near scientific certitude? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-50-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Now, of course, if you were tied down to particular numbers in a budget table or in a bill financing table and neither could justify these numbers so that precisely the preordained amount of revenue comes into the U.S. Treasury, you might be inclined to overplay the public health rationale beyond what is warranted from the actual data. Does the Senator agree with me on that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-51-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask the distinguished Senator if he agrees with me that the American people, see if he agrees with me that the American people are not exactly unfamiliar with the sometimes backwards, the end-justifies-the-means, cook-the-books nature of policymaking in Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-52-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right. Why do you think the polls are showing that by a decisive 70 percent to 20 percent margin the public thinks the Congress is more interested in the revenue and spending side of this tobacco legislation than we are in the public health component? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-53-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Does the Senator remember back in the late 1980s when the American people made us repeal the catastrophic health insurance legislation, the same public considered and soundly rejected the Rube Goldberg-inspired, Ira Magaziner-designed Clinton health care reform proposal? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-54-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would submit to you that this is the same public that we can expect to watch us closely as we perform our magic on this particular bill. Does the Senator agree with me with regard to youth smoking? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-55-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just bring to the distinguished Senator's attention that during that same period of smoking decline in Canada, U.S. youth smoking decreased by 40 percent without a price increase. So much for the reasons that price is the only reason for youth smoking decrease. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-56-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have one final concern with the chart that was used by our distinguished friend from Massachusetts on Canadian tobacco use and price. As I said, that chart ended in 1991. When you look from 1991 on, Canadian imports to our country went up dramatically. Most were smuggled back into Canada and created a huge black market. Does the Senator remember, before the Judiciary Committee, we had the former mayor of Cornwall testify before our committee? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-57-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. And he talked about how the black market came in with all of the accompanying organized crime and criminal activity to the point where his life was threatened, his family's life was threatened, people were shot at, and all kinds of other unsavory criminal practices began. Does the Senator remember that testimony? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-58-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Now, the Judiciary Committee--I am sure the Senator is aware of this, too--heard testimony that most of these 
cigarettes, on that peak, that were imported into the United States were smuggled back into Canada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-59-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. They sent them out and brought them back. People are saying there is not going to be any smuggling here, not going to be any black market. They are ignoring hundreds of thousands of police people. They are ignoring the facts that occurred in Canada, England, and almost everywhere else. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-60-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Since smugglers do not seek identification or IDs, I suspect youth were able to easily obtain bootleg cigarettes. Keep in mind Mexico's per pack price is 94 cents. Right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-61-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Maybe we have never seen the smoking prevalence rates and prices beyond 1991 in the distinguished Senator's chart because smoking rates did not increase when the tax was decreased by the Canadian government. 
Now, despite emphatic and passionate pleas, the scientific evidence on the effect of price is equivocal. Does the Senator agree with me on that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-62-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that today Barry Meier writes a very compelling article in the New York Times. He says: 
But with the Senate having begun debate on Monday on tobacco legislation, many experts warn that such predictions are little more than wild estimates that are raising what may be unreasonable expectations for change in rates of youth smoking. 
Is the Senator aware of that comment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-63-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. Meier also quotes Mr. Richard Kluger, author of a book on smoking and health, who has said this. I ask the Senator if he is aware of it? 
I think this whole business of trying to prevent kids from smoking being the impetus behind legislation is great politics, but it is nonsense in terms of anything you can put number next to. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-64-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that the entire article be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-65-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me ask the Senator, if he will, using another chart, our colleague argued last night that the 1993 American price decrease led to more youth smoking. I would call my colleague's attention to the fact that in at least 1 year both price and youth smoking decreased. Later, there was a dramatic increase in youth smoking without a proportional price increase. These facts provide further evidence that price is not the only determinant of smoking behavior as some would lead us to believe. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-66-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Now, tobacco analyst Martin Feldman, who actually did the economics on this based upon an extensive model, unlike the Treasury Department, who was willing to testify and face cross-examination before the Judiciary Committee, testified before the Judiciary Committee, and I believe the Senator is aware of this, that between 1986 and 1996, the real price of cigarettes in the United Kingdom, rose by 26 percent and national cigarette consumption fell 17 percent. 
Is the Senator aware that youth smoking did not decrease during that same time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-67-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that actually the British Office for National Statistics reported that the percentage of smokers amongst those 11 to 16 increased by 8 percent despite the healthy price increase? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-68-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Our colleague from Massachusetts, for whom I have the greatest respect, would lead us to believe that all public health experts advocate a $1.50 price increase to reduce teen smoking. There has never been a U.S. price increase of this magnitude. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-69-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Keep in mid it is a lot more than just a $1.50. That is just the manufacturer's price. You go on up from there?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-70-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware of the approach that I have been trying to take toward this, that we believe it should be a payment schedule. There would still be excise taxes. We think it should be a payment schedule that the tobacco companies meet regardless of how their profits go, up or down. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-71-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So the payment would not be affected by whether the excise taxes go up or down. The payments would have to be made over a number of years, all $428 billion of them, which is $60 billion more than in the settlement. Is the Senator aware of this, $60 billion more than the attorneys general, Castano group, et cetera, and tobacco companies' agreement back on June 20, 1997? Is the Senator aware of it? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-72-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So it is a stiff increase in penalty, but at least it is at a level where perhaps we can get the companies to come back on board and at least voluntarily agree to the advertising protocols, consent protocols, and voluntarily agree to the 
look-back provisions and make them, thus, constitutional. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-73-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. You understand my position on that? 
In 1996--is the Senator aware in 1996 Secretary Shalala estimated that the 1996 FDA rule would reduce smoking by 50 percent over 7 years? Guess what? There was no price increase in that regulation. 
Secretary Shalala used the word `historic'--this is the most important public health initiative in a generation. It ranks with everything from polio to penicillin. I mean, this is huge in terms of its impact. Out goal is very straightforward; to reduce the amount of teenage smoking in the United States by half over the next 7 years. 
Are you aware of that statement by our Secretary, our esteemed Secretary? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-74-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, there was no price increase in that recognition. How, we are being led to believe that price is the answer. It goes further. David Kesler said this: 
Don't let the simplicity of these proposals fool you. If all elements of the antismoking package come into play together, change could be felt within a single generation, and we could see nicotine addiction go the way of small pox and polio. 
Are you aware of that statement by the former---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-75-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Former head of the FDA? Here is one by President Clinton: 
That's why a year ago I worked with the FDA, and we launched this nationwide effort to protect our children from the dangers of tobacco by reducing access to tobacco products, by preventing companies from advertising to our children. The purpose of the FDA rule was to reduce youth smoking by 50 percent within 7 years. 
That was President Clinton's statement. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-76-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think the point I am making here is no matter what we do here will be a price increase. The question is, How far can you increase it without it being counterproductive and producing an overwhelming black market in contraband all over our country. Is the Senator as concerned about that as I am? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-77-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I appreciate the Senator's comments. These quotes by Donna Shalala, by David Kessler, by the President of the United States, with regard to the FDA regulation supposedly going to reduce teen smoking by 50 percent over 7 years--guess what, there was no price increase in that regulation. Now we are led to believe that price increases are the sole answer--at least by the arguments made by the other side on this issue. 
Is the Senator aware--let me just examine another factor and see if he is aware of that. We are being told the Senate's inaction on a $1.50 price increase over the next 3 years will culminate in children dying. Is the Senator aware of that argument. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-78-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It seems to have been made here regularly. If that is the case, why, then, did the President of the United States advocate for a price increase of up to $1.50 over 10 years? What does our colleague from Massachusetts know that the President didn't know? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-79-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say this, and ask this question. You know, the very people who are arguing for this $1.50 increase, it seems to me, are the very people who are pricing this bill right out of the marketplace so we cannot get a constitutionally sound bill. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-80-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We have had witnesses from the left and the right, constitutional experts, come before our committee and say that, basically, without a voluntary consent protocol or a voluntary consent decree with the companies on board, that literally--literally, you could not have the advertising restrictions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-81-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Was not the Senator there in those Judiciary Committee hearings when these experts on constitutional law from the left to the right said this bill would not be constitutional, would be highly suspect. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-82-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Unconstitutional both on the advertising restrictions, which of course that is what the FDA regulations call for, and on the look-back provisions? Just to mention two. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-83-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Does the Senator remember Floyd Abrams, leading first amendment expert in this country, in my opinion and I think in the opinion of most people, from the left to the right, in his statement: 
Any legislation of Congress which would purport to do by law what the proposed settlement would do by agreement, in terms restricting constitutionally protected commercial speech, is, in my estimation, destined to be held unconstitutional? It is unlikely that at the end of the day the FDA's proposed regulations could survive first amendment scrutiny. 
Does the Senator remember that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-84-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that the American Civil Liberties Union, speaking to the Senate Judiciary Committee, February 20, 1998, had this to say: 
Both the legislation and proposed regulation by the Food and Drug Administration are wholly unprecedented and, if enacted, will most likely fail to withstand constitutional challenges. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-85-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that Judge Robert Bork said on January 16, 1996: 
The recent proposal of the FDA to restrict severely the first amendment rights of American companies and individuals who in one way or another have any connection with tobacco products is patently unconstitutional under the Supreme Court's current doctrine concerning commercial speech, as well as under the original understanding of the first amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-86-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Isn't it a wonderful thing that the commerce bill, or should I say the managers' amendment, has done that which nobody else has ever been able to do in the history of this country; that is, bring together the ACLU and Robert Bork on this issue.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-87-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It really is. But we also had testimony from Larry Tribe, on the left, who also basically said this would be very constitutionally suspect. Now, to make a long story short, the very people who are arguing--I will ask the Senator this. Aren't the very people who are arguing for this $1.50 increase the people who have basically blown the tobacco companies out of the equation so that you cannot get the voluntary consent decrees to make these matters constitutional so that this will work, not just from a price increase standpoint but from an advertising restrictions standpoint, and from a look-back provision standpoint? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-88-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware of, similarly, last week we heard testimony on this issue. I asked Professor Burt Neuborne of the NYU law school specifically if he thought the FDA rules could pass constitutional muster. I have to say, he was one of the most impressive constitutional experts I have had in my 22 years of listening to constitutional law from experts on the Judiciary Committee. In asking him a question, I pointed out that earlier in the hearing that Mr. David Ogden, counsel to the Attorney General, testified that the FDA rules were narrowly tailored and could satisfy the leading cases in the area of commercial free speech, the Supreme Court's decision in 44 Liquormart, and the Scenic Hudson cases. 
So I asked Professor Neuborne whether the FDA rules were narrowly tailored, as required by current Supreme Court doctrine. I want to see if the Senator remembers what he said. 
He said: 
I could start by semantics. Mr. Ogden of the Justice Department used the word `appropriately tailored.' He is too good a lawyer to use the words `narrowly tailored' because the FDA rules are not narrowly tailored. The FDA rules take the position that all color, all figures, all human beings are inherently attractive to children in a way that causes them to smoke. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-89-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. He went on to say: 
But its not a narrowly tailored response to say that all use of color, all use of human figures, all use of imagery is banned so that adults can't see them either, and I don't think that could be reasonably defended. 
Do you remember that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-90-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. He is not alone. I venture to say that any constitutional expert who tries to contradict what these gentlemen have said is going to be in severe jeopardy of losing his or her reputation. 
Is the Senator aware that this whole push to raise the cost, to pile on, that basically knocks the tobacco companies out of the equation, to pile on--which is what is happening in this bill and what certainly would be extended by the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts--that that basically knocks the tobacco companies out? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-91-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. They have said---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-92-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. There is no doubt in my mind that they are not going to continue unless we get this into some reasonable posture. Is the Senator aware that many people lost their breath when they first heard of $368.5 billion as the settlement figure given last June 20 by the attorneys general, the Castano group and the tobacco companies? They were astounded. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-93-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think the Senator is aware, is he not, that there has to be a way to pay for the program? If you don't have the voluntary consent of the companies, albeit kicking and screaming, then how do you make the bill constitutional in the end? Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-94-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware of another position this Senator has, and I think many others as well, and that is that if this bill passes in its current form and is not constitutional, that there will be at least 10 years of effective litigation by the tobacco companies who are not going to allow them to climb all over them, especially when they know these provisions are unconstitutional? Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-95-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that we have 3,000 kids beginning smoking every day and 1,000 will die a premature death? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-96-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that if a young teenager smokes, there is an 8 times propensity to graduate to marijuana, and if that teenager then graduates to marijuana, there is a greater propensity to graduate to harder drugs? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-97-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So if this price increases that we are talking about here, way above the $368.5 billion, do not bring the tobacco companies on board--and the tobacco companies say they are not going to come on board--then, basically, we are going to have 10 years of constitutional litigation where approximately 1 million children a year will start a habit later leading to their premature death because we failed to act properly in this matter. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-98-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that I have fought the tobacco industry my whole Senate career, and I take second place to nobody as far as trying to get this matter under control? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-99-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that on one occasion, I was accused--I won't say by whom--of being a pawn for the tobacco companies, because I want to see this thing work and get it done? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-100-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, it was very offensive to me. If we don't work this out so that the parties agree in a consent decree, then we are going to have years of litigation where even more people will die from smoking-related diseases and millions of kids will be hooked on cigarettes. 
In 1996, as I said, and I ask the Senator if he remembers this, Secretary Shalala estimated that the 1996 FDA rule would reduce smoking by 50 percent over 7 years. David Kessler said it. The President believes that. There was no price increase involved in that, just the rule. But that rule will not be in effect if we don't have a voluntary consent decree. 
And, I might add, there are those who believe that rule shouldn't be in effect under current FDA law, the way it is currently written. 
Let me ask the Senator to consider another fact. We are being told that the Senate's inaction on a $1.50 price increase over the next 3 years will result in children dying. If that is the case, then why did the President of the United States advocate for a price increase of up to $1.50 but over 10 years? Is the Senator aware that Surgeon General Satcher, our Nation's doctor, did not call for a $1.50 price increase?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-101-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Rather, he echoed the President's position. He referred to prices as one of the most cost-effective, short-term strategies to reduce youth smoking. Will the Senator help me to understand their failure to be advocates, if the evidence is, as our colleague from Massachusetts said, `overwhelming and powerful'? More recently, my colleague and I attended a Judiciary Committee hearing to determine if it is possible to design a plan to keep kids from smoking. Is the Senator aware of this? Dr. Greg Connally, head of the Massachusetts drug control program, testified that the remarkable success of the Massachusetts program in reducing by 30 percent cigarette consumption in the 18- to 24-year-olds was because of the clean air indoor legislation and advertising. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-102-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That came right out of Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-103-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me finish this line of thought, and I will be happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-104-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let's look more closely at the 1994 IOM study which is the basis of the 1998 IOM study. A fair reading of this 1994 IOM study seems far less definitive than is being portrayed by some in this debate. 
On page 187 of the 1994 Institute of Medicine study, it says: 
Only a few studies have examined the question of whether cigarette price increases affect teenagers differently than adults. 
It then reviewed the only three studies done to that point in the United States. It found relatively high price elasticities in two of these studies but noted that the third study, the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, `failed to find a statistically significant effect of cigarette prices on cigarette smoking in youths age 12 through 17.' Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-105-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So the data that is not so categorical as being portrayed by the proponents of this amendment. In fact, the 1994 IOM report noted the conflict, not the consensus, in the data. It noted that that requires further study. 
On page 188 of the IOM study, it says this: 
The conflicting results of the few U.S. studies have examined the impact of cigarette prices on consumption by adolescents, including possible substitution of smokeless tobacco products in response to higher cigarette prices, reinforce the need for new research to assess the potential for using higher tobacco taxes to deter adolescent tobacco use. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-106-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that in a recent peer-reviewed article in the Journal of the American Medical Association, the authors conclude that price increases have limited value? Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-107-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Since the tobacco companies cut their prices to wipe out the tax increases, these public health scientists attributed the success of the tobacco control program in Massachusetts to other components of the comprehensive program. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-108-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. In the same hearing, Dr. William Roper, who is Dean of the University of North Carolina School of Public Health, called for a significant price increase but failed to recommend an amount. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-109-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Dr. Michael Fiore, director of the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine Center for Tobacco Research and Prevention and Chair of the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research clinical practice guideline panel on smoking cessation testified that one of the most effective ways to reduce youth smoking is to focus on the current adult smokers. He never mentioned a price increase to reduce youth smoking. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-110-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We all know teenage behavior is at best unpredictable. Dr. Warner of the University of Michigan estimated that the 1983 doubling of the Federal excise tax would decrease the number of teenage smokers by 800,000. This estimate fell short by one-fourth. This overzealous estimate should give all of us pause in stepping into the unchartered waters of a $1.50 price increase. 
We should not lead our mothers in this society to believe that if we raise the price of cigarettes by $1.50, their children will not smoke. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-111-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I tell my colleagues, I am just about through with my questions for now. I will have many, many more later on other aspects of this bill. But I wanted to get these points across. I really appreciate the courtesy of my colleague and his forbearance in being willing to answer all these questions. 
The main point is, there cannot be clear and unequivocal support for a price increase of $1.50. I have never seen a price increase of that magnitude. That has never been done. 
Dr. Chaloupka also writes that less educated persons are less price responsive. An American adult, who is a one-pack-a-day smoker would face a $547 increase. The Senator has been making that case, I believe. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-112-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This tax increase would take away more than 5 percent of the income of an American making $10,000 a year. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-113-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is it not correct, I ask my colleague from Missouri, who has been making very important points here during this debate, is it correct that currently smokers with incomes under $30,000 pay almost 50 percent of the tobacco excise tax? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-114-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Right. If this $1.50 goes through, it will be probably that high. And even at $1.10, it would be approaching 60 percent; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-115-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, I am disappointed that some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are so ready to support a new tax-and-spend program supposedly aimed at children but weighing so heavily on the backs of addicted, low-income adult workers under the guise that they are helping children. 
Does the Senator agree with me on that?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-116-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will take only a few more minutes. 
While I agree--I will make this clear--that a price increase is an important component of a comprehensive program, the reason I have gone through all this is there is no clear and convincing evidence of what that amount should be. 
Let us be honest, the CBO found there is uncertainty and the price rise is not foolproof. 
Do you agree with that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-117-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would just like to ask my friend maybe one or two more questions. 
If we have to have a tobacco settlement, would it not be much better to force the tobacco companies to come back on board so we can resolve the constitutional issues and have voluntary consent protocols so we can actually reduce youth smoking? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-118-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that this Senator, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has spent an extensive amount of time studying this issue, trying to come up with a way that you can punish the tobacco companies while getting their consent to the advertising restrictions, so they have to live up to the deal? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-119-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware of the Senator from Utah's long-term antipathy toward this industry? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-120-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware of how hard the Senator from Utah studied just exactly what would be the highest amount we could charge and still keep the tobacco companies--yes, kicking and screaming and fighting, and say they are gouged--on board to get these voluntary consent protocols so we can make this matter constitutional? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-121-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-122-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have one or two questions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-123-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield further to me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-124-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would be happy to--I do not think the Senator from Utah is abusing the rules. I think I have the privilege to ask all the questions I can. I think these have been intelligent questions. I think they have been right on point. I think they hopefully will help to elucidate what we need to know. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-125-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Does the Senator agree with my last statement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-126-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Now---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-127-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-128-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Senator for his leadership on the floor in pointing out the problems that exist with regard to this `piling on' mentality. Is the Senator aware that we did it in the catastrophic bill, and we all lost that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-129-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have no doubt that if the managers' amendment of $1.10 goes through--does the Senator have any doubt that if a managers' amendment of $1.10 goes though, let alone $1.50, that we will wind up with another similar process and problems on our hands? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-130-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I agree with the Senator and ask a final question. I apologize to my colleagues for taking this time. As everybody knows, I don't take an awful lot of time on the floor. If we are going to resolve this matter, it seems to me, and I wonder if the Senator would agree with me, that we have to take into consideration the approximately 50 million users of tobacco products in this society, many of whom are hooked on these products, or at least addicted to them; we have to consider the children; we have to consider using this money for tobacco-related purposes to the utmost extent that we can. 
Would the Senator agree with me on those? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-131-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am concerned about what is going on on the floor right now. I am concerned about the managers' amendment. I am concerned about it ever really working, and I imagine the Senator--and this is a question--is as concerned as I am. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-132-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Despite what Michael Douglas said in the popular movie `Wall Street,' greed is not good, and it is especially onerous and burdensome when the greed comes from Congress itself. 
Would the Senator agree with me on that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-133-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I want to personally compliment the Senator for his work on the floor. I know he has taken a lot of time and has had to give up his office work and a lot of other things to be able to join in this colloquy, but this is important. I believe his colloquy is important if we want to understand both sides of this issue on the $1.50. I want to compliment the Senator for being willing to have the fortitude, the dedication, and the drive to stand here and do this. 
I apologize to the rest of my colleagues for having taken as long as I have to ask these questions, but I think every question has been pertinent and to the point and every question has tried to enlighten, and that is what questions are for. That is why the rules provide for it. 
I thank my colleague for allowing me to do this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-134-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-135-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the remarks of the distinguished Senator from Arizona not interrupt our questions and remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-136-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We were going through this CBO report. I apologize to the distinguished Senator from Arizona for irritating him. I thought he had finished his remarks. I always intend to extend courtesy throughout the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-137-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-138-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Am I entitled to speak? I don't think it will be too much longer. But I would like to go through my questions. I am not intending to delay here. This is a very large bill, perhaps the largest the Senate has ever considered, at least in recent memory. We need to question its full impact as we proceed. That is the right way to make policy on such an important issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-139-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could continue---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-140-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator please ask unanimous consent that the colloquy not be interrupted? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-141-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I say that the distinguished Senator from Arizona may not appreciate this colloquy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-142-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have to admit that I don't appreciate some of the colloquies that have gone on before, but Senators have a right to do so. This is too important an issue for the American public. We need to look at the real facts on such important legislation. We are not just trying to run any bill through because some people want to. I think this legislation deserves debate. We are talking about price levels that will amount to huge tax increases for some American people. We are talking a bill which does not have the cooperation of the tobacco companies, thus raising serious constitutional questions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the distinguished Senator for her kind remarks. I have listened very carefully to her. 
There is no question in my mind--not only from my own personal evaluation and study of these issues, but also from conferring with the top constitutional experts in the country, that both the original Commerce bill and the managers' amendment we are now discussing, are unconstitutional in scope and intent. This is especially true with regard to the FDA provisions where it would appear that the advertising restrictions are too broadly conceived to be enforced. Both Larry Tribe, a constitutional expert on the left, and Robert Bork a renowned scholar on the right, have concluded these provisions are problematic and raise constitutional concerns. 
With regard to any other advertising ban, as embodied in the new title XIV of this managers' amendment, the only way they can go into effect will be if the tobacco companies actually voluntarily consent to these restrictions on advertising. As the distinguished Senator knows, they have not voluntarily consented. Far from it. 
The companies have said they will fight this bill. This means that if the McCain bill passes in its current form, and thus there is no voluntary consent to the advertising provisions, we will have up to at least 10 years of litigation. During that time, we face the possibility of having no money for our stated purpose of helping reduce youth smoking, no money for smoking cessation, nor for any of the other stated purposes such as biomedical research, settling the state suits, and farmer transition payments. 
And at the end of 10 years, it will be entirely likely that the tobacco companies will have won their suits because of the constitutional infirmities within this bill. 
I am just talking about advertising. 
Then we go to the look-back provisions. There are at least two major constitutional problems with the look-back provisions as written in this bill. 
One is that they are going to punish these companies even though they don't show fault on the part of the companies when the projected youth smoking reduction targets are not attained. 
The constitutional experts have said that may constitute a bill of attainder which is expressly prohibited by the Constitution. 
There are other constitutional infirmities with regard to the look-back provisions. So it doesn't take anybody on the side of tobacco companies 3 minutes to know that if they face the Commerce bill, in which they had no part in drafting, during which they were not even allowed to provide input, for which they gave no consent to waive their constitutional rights, then it is a lot cheaper for them to litigate the matter with a good prospect of winning than to pay over $800 billion in the next 25 years. 
I might add just parenthetically that by some estimates there could be 1 million young children whose lives will be cut short prematurely because Congress has failed to write a constitutionally sound bill. 
So the Senator raises very important issues; she raises very important considerations here and very important criticisms of this particular piece of legislation. 
It really bothers me that many in this body are rushing to `pile on' this legislation without trying to bring the tobacco companies onboard, albeit screaming and kicking. 
Let me state for the record. I have no respect whatsoever for the tobacco companies. 
I think that their record shows clearly they have lied to the American people for decades. They knew their products were addictive. They knew they caused cancer. They deliberately marketed their products to young children, and then denied it. 
I would like nothing more than for them to pay a trillion dollars a year. 
But what I would like even more is for us to endorse a workable, constitutionally-sound new War on Tobacco, and we are not going to do it by writing a bill which fails the constitutional test. Such an approach is destined for failure. 
I remember clearly when Mississippi Attorney General Mike Moore testified before our committee, not once, but twice. He related that the attorneys general knew all these evil things about the tobacco companies when they were negotiating the settlement last year, they waded through all the relevant documents, and they concluded that the far greater goal was to help a generation of youth from becoming addicted to tobacco than to continue to focus on the companies misdeeds. 
If the companies broke the law, if anyone in the companies broke any law, they should be punished to the fullest extent possible. Nothing here would preclude that. Nor should it. 
But I get upset when some suggest that we can help children by thinking up literally every measure we can to punish the tobacco companies and then loading them into one constitutionally-infirm bill. 
It seems to me it is possible to punish the companies, but at the same time compel them to underwrite financially a new public health program that can do future generations more good than anything we have ever envisioned. We simply can't develop that comprehensive public health approach without the industry's consent, again, however reluctant. 
I can go on and on. Tomorrow, I plan to go into greater detail on the constitutional infirmities of both the original Commerce Committee bill, which everybody knew was just a vehicle for amendment, and the bill as now amended with the managers' amendment, which is just as bad as the original Commerce bill with regard to constitutional concerns. 
So I thank the distinguished Senator from California for bringing this out. I also appreciate her working with me to try to resolve these difficulties. And, as my dear friend from California knows, the original settlement on June 20 of last year was for $368.5 billion. 
All of us gasped for breath when we heard that. We thought, `Why in the world would the tobacco companies agree to pay $368.5 billion?' 
The reason is because they want some limits of liability, even though they will still have abundant liability; they want some finality to the litigation that they face, a predictability that will allow them to make the large payments we envision to underwrite the new public health program we are trying to develop. 
And so, if we take away even the few aspects of limited liability that are there, there is no chance at all of ever getting the tobacco companies to come on even a modest bill. 
I thank the distinguished Senator from California for being willing to help cosponsor the bill that we are working on that would require $428.5 billion in payments over 25 years, or $60 billion more than the June 20, 1997 settlement. 
I believe that if we can limit it to somewhere between $400 billion and $430 billion, and if we can include reasonable limited liability provisions for the companies--limited liability provisions that restrict class actions but do not stop individuals from suing--than I am hopeful we can get the companies to come back on board. 
I am not sure if this is possible, but I think we ought to try, or the whole program will be lost. And if we get them back on, then this whole matter can work and work to the best interests of children and society as a whole. 
So I thank my colleague for being willing to work together on this and, of course, for bringing up the points she is raising here today. I hope that at least cursorily answers her questions, and I will be glad to go into much greater detail later.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. In response to my colleague from California, it is correct. I am a member of the Finance Committee and, of course, on that committee voted against the $1.50 increase at the manufacturers level, not because I would not like to punish the tobacco companies, but because that amount is excessive and in the process will not lead to a bill which can stop youth tobacco use. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As the Senator knows, we held extensive hearings on this issue in the Judiciary Committee. The Treasury Department sent up Deputy Secretary Larry Summers, who gave us a five-line piece of paper as the basis for their analysis. When we asked him about whether they had a model, he wasn't able to respond very carefully. 
There is apparently not much of a model backing up the Treasury Department's assertions in this area. But, on the other hand, we had three of the top analysts from Wall Street who spend all of their time working on tobacco-related issues trying to be able to be accurate in informing their customers, and they had extensive economic modeling done that showed the retail cost per pack of tobacco under the $1.10 bill that we have before us would be somewhere between, as I recall, $4.50 and $5.50 per pack. And if that is so, then the distinguished Senator's concerns about the black market are certainly legitimate and justified. 
I might add that the Finance Committee last week did not view it as a precedent for the future. But I cannot believe that it is good for the Finance Committee, good for the full Senate, and good for the American people to consider what one Wall Street analyst has projected to be an $861 billion program without the Finance Committee having a meaningful opportunity to study the Treasury Department's estimates of the costs of the program. 
As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I tried to get a full explanation of the Treasury model before a hearing that we held on April 30. 
But, the administration failed to provide us with their model together with a full explanation of their assumptions. And what I can only conclude from that is they did not have a model; perhaps they were just hypothesizing. I hope this is not so. 
Late the night before the hearing, I succeeded in getting only a one-page summary table that some Treasury and White House staff insisted on calling a model. 
Let me just say that I hope we could all agree we should not launch a huge new, multi-billion Federal program, with such far-ranging implications, on the strength of a one-page chart. 
It is also important for me to note that many Wall Street analysts have been calling for a full explanation of the Treasury projections for a few months. Several Wall Street experts have participated in meetings with administration officials and Commerce Committee staff and explained their own models and their own assumptions so this should have been a very open process. 
In fairness to the Treasury Department, I must say that finally, late on May 12, but only after our hearing that same day where two financial analysts testified--and this was 2 weeks after our hearing in which Deputy Secretary Summers testified--Treasury did provide our Committee with an additional 11 pages of information. 
For the record, I must note that this still is not everything I have asked them for. For example, Treasury s one-page summary table that they insist on calling a model assumes a 23 percent reduction in cigarette sales from 1998 to 2003, based upon a semilogarithmic demand function with an initial elasticity of minus 0.45. 
I might not know the difference between a semilogarithmic function and a hole in the ground, but there are experts who know how to assess this information. These experts deserve a chance to analyze this data on something this important. And the fact is, on the evening of April 28, Treasury and the White House staff said they would send over the formula for this function, that they would send it right over. 
At this meeting, it was explained to my staff that this function gradually reduced the price elasticity as the price climbed. Frankly, this makes sense, because you would expect that as price goes up, there would be fewer and fewer people left who are willing to pay the higher and higher prices. 
But the administration officials also said that in year 5, for some statistical reason, the Treasury elasticity function would actually increase, under the Commerce bill assumptions. 
So, while they are saying that as a general matter the elasticity would get slightly lower as price climbed, they were also saying that in year 5, at least, this elasticity would actually grow higher. 
You can see why anyone would want to study the underlying assumptions for these conclusions very carefully, since elasticity of demand--that is, the responsiveness of individual consumption due to an increase in price--is so important to the writing of this law. 
Our debate on the floor over the Kennedy amendment calling for a price increase of $1.50 per pack centered on this price elasticity issue. But the formula that was going to come right over from the Treasury never came on April 28, as they said it would. 
At the April 30 hearing, I renewed this request by asking Deputy Secretary Summers to provide this information with the details of the so-called Treasury model. And, as I said earlier, the Treasury Department did finally send us additional information after our hearing on May 12, but we are still waiting for their semilogarithmic demand function. 
I have no reason to believe there is anything magical about this information and cannot imagine why it has not been provided. 
Certainly, it is not like I am asking for some sensitive top-secret security information. 
We are asking for information to help us understand how to write properly a bill that is being touted as having a $516 billion revenue impact, but in reality which is probably $861 billion, according to those who have developed full, detailed models with assumptions which they are willing to make public in at least two open hearings. 
So, I have to say the testimony we heard from these financial analysts just completely blows away the Treasury Department testimony that was given, and certainly the 1-page so-called model that they presented to the Committee, and even the 11 additional pages that they gave us which really weren't very helpful. 
And I have to say I take exception about remarks made hear earlier today suggesting that these financial analysts had a vested interest in killing the McCain legislation because it would help their investors. We did, in fact, discuss this issue with the analysts at our recent hearing. They advised the Committee, and I believe they had no reason to mislead us, that their only vested interest was in providing accurate information to their clients. They have both recommended buying and selling tobacco stocks, depending on the company and the time. 
The companies they represent do not own tobacco stocks, as was alleged here earlier, at least not in the traditional sense. It is clear that they may hold tobacco stocks for their clients who have purchased them, just as they hold stocks in a myriad of publicly-traded companies, but it is hard to argue that this is ownership of those stocks. 
That was a little lengthy, but I don't know how else to explain it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. There is no question in my mind about it. If we pass this legislation the way it is currently written, we are going to have a black market like you have never seen before. 
When Canada raised its taxes so dramatically, they found this to be the case. Remember the mayor of Cornwall, Canada---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Who came in and testified about how they threatened him, his life, his family's life, how the city become inundated in organized crime, until they finally had to reduce the size of the excise tax in order to prevent further black marketeering? 
Remember how he told us his family had to be removed to a safe house? How ordinary citizens could not even go out at night because they were afraid of random gunfire? 
The distinguished Senator from Massachusetts also showed a chart here today---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That only went up to 1991. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am trying to answer that question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, could I ask the distinguished Senator from California a question? Do I have the right to do that, under the parliamentary rules here today? If she will---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. May I ask her a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think that is what I will do, because it seems to me that some of the people around here are afraid to get the facts on this matter. 
And I have to say that it is highly offensive to have someone come here and suggest that the distinguished Senator from California and I are not trying to get to the bottom of the facts, especially since the facts are so complex here. 
So I will ask the distinguished Senator from California, isn't it true that you are trying to get to the facts of this matter? Is that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. May I also ask the Senator from California, are you aware of the fact that we have had extensive testimony on this very issue before our Judiciary Committee? I hope this question is fair. I hope that I will be permitted to ask it, under the Senate rules. I surely hope that the manager of the bill will recognize we are going to abide by the rules, if he wants to be a stickler on them. Is it not true that we have had literally hours of testimony on this very issue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. And I would like to ask, isn't it true that the distinguished Senator from California heard the testimony of witnesses saying that if the per-pack price under the Commerce bill goes to $4.50 to $5.50 per pack, there is going to be an extensive black market? Isn't that true? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware of this comment by CBO in April 1998--and I hope this is in the form of a question that is acceptable to the manager of the bill--about black-market cigarettes: 
Any legislation that would rapidly raise the price of a product by a third or more would almost certainly spawn a black market as people attempted to evade the high prices. Tobacco is no exception. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator concerned about that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Can I ask the Senator from California another question that I think is relevant to her concerns? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Senator comes from California, the largest populated State in our Nation. How many people live in California? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Almost 34 million people, I understand. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Nineteen percent of whom smoke. Is the Senator aware that one out of five packs of cigarettes sold in California happens to be contraband? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. And that jumped up when the State raised its tax by a few pennies from, I think, was it 17 cents to 34 cents or something like that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. What do you think is going to happen in California and other States if that price is raised per pack from $2 to $4.50 or $5.50? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have to agree with the Senator. And I have to say, is the Senator aware that on May 4, 1998, testimony before the Senate Democratic Task Force on Tobacco, Robert A. Robinson, Director of Food and Drug, Agriculture Issues, Resources, Community and Economic Division of the General Accounting Office--who should surely win an award for one of the longest titles in 
Government--said: 
Smuggling cigarettes from low- to high-tax States or interstate smuggling prominent in the 1970s may be a reemerging problem. Such activity is likely to occur when the differences in cigarette taxes across the States are significant enough to make it profitable. Recently, many States have opted to sharply increase their cigarette taxes, yet most low-tax States have not. As a result, recent studies suggest that the level of interstate smuggling activity may now be increasing. In fact, recent estimates suggest that smuggling is responsible for States collectively losing hundreds of millions of dollars in annual tax revenues. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just ask one other question of the distinguished Senator, because there has been some indication here that there is some sort of a game being played in this colloquy between the Senator and myself. It is anything but a game being played. 
We have seriously looked at these matters in 10 Judiciary Committee hearings, at which the Senator from California was in attendance. And these are important issues. 
I just ask the distinguished Senator, what are we going to do if we go through all of this piling on mentality, as is embodied in this managers' agreement and many of the proposed amendments thereto, and, after we get to the end of this, the bill is still constitutionally unsound? What happens if we have 10 years of litigation and the program falls apart? Isn't that some justification for finding out the facts now in order to either amend this bill or have a substitute amendment or other correctional measure? Shouldn't we really get to the heart of how to develop a constitutionally-sound bill that will help reduce teen smoking and solve some of these other problems in society? Does the Senator agree with me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. May I ask the distinguished Senator one more question? It is this: I have sought to facilitate a thorough examination of public discussion of the Treasury model so 
policymakers can better understand why there is so much disparity between Wall Street and 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue on critical items like the estimates of the retail price per pack of cigarettes under the Commerce Committee bill. 
Is the Senator aware that we have heard the official estimate is that the Commerce Committee bill will increase the cost of a pack of cigarettes by $1.10 per pack over 5 years? Many in the press simply report that the price, not cost, will go up by just $1.10 a pack. 
As I understand it, and I ask the Senator to help me to know if she understands it the same way I do, the Treasury Department and the proponents of the Commerce Committee bill believe that when you take into account all other factors, you arrive at a real price in year 5 of $3.19 per pack. Although it is not a number that many of the bill's proponents seem anxious to get into public discussion, and the press is not widely reporting it in nominal terms, this is how much money you actually have to pull out of your wallet. This $3.19 per pack figure translates at the cash register price of $3.57 in the year 2003 under the White House and Treasury Department's estimates. 
Now, again, I ask the Senator, is the Senator aware of those facts?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is the White House's spin here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me ask the Senator this. Does the Senator recall that in September the President called for, and the White House repeated again in February, bipartisan legislation that raises the price of cigarettes by up to --and that is up to --$1.50 per pack over 10 years? Does the Senator remember the President calling for that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Given that the price of cigarettes is about $1.95 per pack today, it looks like the Commerce Committee bill or this managers' amendment will achieve the $1.50 price hike 5 years ahead of schedule by the Treasury's own estimates. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right. Now, Wall Street analysts tell us the Treasury numbers are off--way off, they say. They say that the actual price increases under the Commerce Committee bill will be much higher than what Treasury is telling us. They say the price in real dollars will climb to between $4.50 and $5 per pack in 5 years; and at least one indicated higher than $5 per pack, up to over $5.50. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Martin Feldman of Salomon Smith Barney projects in the year 2003, the Commerce Committee bill, the old bill--but the revised one is the same on the facts--will result in a real price of $4.61 per pack. In nominal terms, this means that cigarettes will cost $5.11 per pack. That is over $50 per carton. Does the Senator remember that testimony? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. David Adelman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter testified on April 30 that the 2003 average retail price will reach at least $4.53 per pack if the Commerce Committee bill is adopted. His analysis also indicates that the price under this bill that is on the floor right now could actually grow to $5.66 per pack or higher within 5 years. Is the Senator aware over that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Now, similarly, Gary Black of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, told the Judiciary Committee on May 12, 1998, that under the Commerce Committee bill the real price of cigarettes will exceed $5 per pack in 2003. Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would ask the Senator if she is aware--let me emphasize the $4.50 to $5-per-pack prices that these leading Wall Street analysts projected in testimony to the Judiciary Committee, those prices are much higher than what the Treasury estimated and far higher than the widely cited and widely reported $1.10-per-pack figure. Isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So it is far higher than the up to $1.50-per-pack increase that the President called for over a 10-year period; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If these Wall Street analysts are correct, and the Treasury estimates are off in year 5, under the Commerce Committee 
bill, we may reach a price increase that is twice as high as what the President has called for; that is, a $3-per-pack price increase rather than a $1.50 price increase. That is certainly a far cry from the $1.10 we hear so much about; isn't that so? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just finish this. 
What is more, according to these experts, we will reach this twice as high level twice as fast as called for by the President. I guess we should ask whether the American public understands that what we may actually be talking about under the Commerce Committee bill is a $50-per-carton price for cigarettes. 
Now, if you are like me, and do not, and will not, ever smoke, this may not seem so bad, literally; but I just hope that the public health lobby does not next focus its attention on the problem of obesity, or we may have chocolate ice cream at $20 a gallon, a $10 package of potato chips, or a $5 slice of apple pie, sold by prescription no doubt, if we continue to follow this type of bureaucratic reasoning. Is the Senator in disagreement with me on this? And I didn't even talk about cheeseburgers! 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Finance Committee did not hear any testimony on the tobacco issue; the Commerce Committee heard from Secretary Summers as well as Mr. Feldman. 
Is the Senator aware that the $1.10 price that is so widely reported in the media as the add-on to the current $1.95 or the $2-per-pack price at the manufacturer's level does not include a whole wide variety of factors, like the wholesale markups, the retail costs, the additional excise taxes added on by the States, litigations costs, the lookback, all factors that could be add-ons to the retail price under this bill? 
So it is pretty clear that it is a lot higher than what the media are reporting is $1.10. It is a lot higher, isn't it, than what the White House has indicated? 
And I would just ask the Senator this other question: Isn't it plausible to believe these Wall Street analysts, whose very livelihoods depend on trying to arrive at correct economic projections in order to advise clients about whether or not to invest money, who have used extensive models to make those projections rather than just a 5-line sheet of paper? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-37-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is it not true--this will be my last question--is it not true that under the substitute that the distinguished Senator from California and I are working on, that we do not base this on a price per pack of cigarettes, our $428.5 billion, we base it on payments that have to be made over 25 years? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-38-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Whether the companies--whether they sell a lot of cigarettes or not, they are going to have to make those payments; isn't that correct?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-39-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from California for answering my questions. 
Parliamentary inquiry. Have these questions been in order under the rules of the Senate? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-40-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am asking the Parliamentarian if these questions have been in order under the rules? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-41-19980520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, my goodness, I am so happy to find that out. 
Thank you so much, Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am very concerned about this and a whole raft of other amendments as well. 
First of all, I think we need to examine the context in which this amendment is being debated. 
If the members of this body succumb to the temptation to `pile on', to `out-tobacco' Big Tobacco--and that is surely where we are headed--we will guarantee that the tobacco companies are not part of the equation. 
Why should we care about this? Tobacco causes cancer and a panoply of other serious diseases. The companies have known this for literally decades; they have known nicotine makes their products addictive. They have continued to market their products, and to target their marketing plans and their advertising to children. 
That being said, I implore my colleagues to recognize that if the tobacco companies are not part of the equation, then we will not have a meaningful bill that can work. It is as simple as that. 
Last June 20, the tobacco companies agreed voluntarily to make payments which will range up to $368.5 billion over the next 25 years. They freely chose to make those payments, payments which will help Congress fund a new War on Tobacco, in exchange for certain changes in the law, such as a more predictable litigation environment. 
In order to devise a bill which is workable and which will not be litigated for years, we have to respect the legal boundaries imposed by our Constitution, that great document upon which our Country was founded. Constitutional scholars have examined the provisions incorporated in the Commerce bill, and have found them to be lacking. 
For example, public health experts have testified before our Committee that advertising restrictions are an important weapon in any new War on Tobacco. But legal scholars have also cautioned that those restrictions must be drafted in a manner which is constitutionally permissible--which, by the way, this bill is not. 
As chairman of the Judiciary Committee and as someone who has been concerned about constitutional principles during my tenure in office, I must caution that unless this bill is changed in some very fundamental aspects, we will wind up in 10 years of litigation over a variety of issues, not the least of which will be constitutional issues that will literally cause more problems than anyone ever envisioned. 
During each of those years, one million more kids will become addicted to tobacco and will die prematurely because the Congress is pursuing a constitutional collision course which could ultimately render substantial parts of the Commerce bill null. 
It is important to note that, while the tobacco companies voluntarily agreed to the $368.5 billion amount, they have refused to agree to the Commerce bill's $516 billion price tag. 
We have all seen estimates that the Commerce bill will add $1.10 to the price of a pack of cigarettes in the next five years. What that Treasury estimate does not take into account are any increases due to State excise taxes, wholesaler or retailer markups, attorneys fees, reductions in volume due to increases in black market sales, or imposition of `look-back' penalties. 
Let us be real. The manufacturers, for instance, added 5 cents per pack solely because of just one State settlement, the Minnesota settlement. 
The $1.10 figure is a myth. 
During the course of 10 hearings on the tobacco issue, the Judiciary Committee heard an abundance of evidence on this issue. 
We had three financial analysts testify at our hearings, each of whom did independent analyses, using very detailed economic models, and none of them concurred with an estimate as low as $1.10. Their estimates ranged as high as $2.50 to $3.00, for a total cost of about $5.00 per pack. 
If that happens, there will be a raging black market. It will be even worse than it is now. We have received testimony that one out of five cigarette packs sold in California today is contraband. Can you imagine what is going to happen if this bill forces tobacco prices up to between $4.50 and $5.00 per pack? 
There is an additional implication that, with the exception of our colleague from Texas, Senator Gramm, and our colleague from Illinois, Senator Moseley-Braun, no one is focusing on. 
Who will bear the brunt of these increased costs, of these new payments intended to curb youth smoking? It is adults at the lower end of the economic spectrum. For example, almost one-third of people with incomes below $10,000 per year are smokers. 
It would be better to bring this agreement into some perspective where we can get the tobacco companies on board, however reluctantly. 
I would like nothing more than for them to pay $1 trillion per year. But the practical reality is that that will not happen. They will either move offshore or go bankrupt first, and they will be totally beyond our control. 
If we design a program which does not have their open opposition, which is modeled on their voluntary agreement of June 20, 1997, we will have effective accountability, because we will have look-back provisions that are constitutional. We will have an effect ban on advertising provisions, because without their compliance Congress cannot enact stringent advertising restrictions. In short, without the reluctant agreement of the tobacco companies, we will not have the comprehensive program that many of us want. 
Having said that, I have listened carefully to my colleague from South Carolina. 
It is well known that I have been an advocate for legal reforms. 
It is well known that I am supportive of product liability reform. 
It is well known that I have not been someone who just is a rubber stamp for the trial lawyers of America, even though I have been one myself. 
It is well known that I think there are excesses in the law. 
But I think we go a long way toward being excessive as a Congress if we start setting fees for professionals in our society, professionals who are not directly participating in a government program. 
If we allow ourselves to start dictating what fees have to be paid to certain professions in our society, however tempting, then I think we are starting down a dangerous road. 
How can conservatives support setting fees in a free market system? That is as bad as setting prices. 
I have extensively examined the tobacco issue. One thing has become evident. We would not be here today debating this legislation were it not for the Castano attorneys. 
The distinguished Senator from South Carolina has made some very telling points. Yes, there are excesses. Yes, there are things we can criticize. Yes, we know that many of the trial lawyers have been associated with one political party. 
That irritates some people, and rightly so. But the fact of the matter is that he is right. It has been the contingent fee system that has allowed people who do not have any money to be able to defend themselves, to assert their rights, and to obtain verdicts in their best interests. And without the attorneys being willing to take cases on a contingent fee basis, many of the wrongs 
in our society would not be righted. 
Frankly, I have been on both sides. I started out as an insurance defense lawyer. I tried medical liability defense cases. I know what it is like to have people, plaintiffs lawyers, bringing lawsuits, some of which are trumped up. 
But I have also been on the other side where people who were humble, without money, had no recourse other than to hope they could find an attorney who would take their case on a contingent fee. 
This meant that if I didn't win the case, I didn't get paid. If I won the case, then I got somewhere between 25 and 40 percent of the verdict. I never had a case where my client got less as a result of the contingent fee paid to me than they would have gotten by a settlement before a verdict--never, at least not to my recollection. 
On this particular issue, Senator McCain and those who have written this bill--basically the White House, if you will--inserted a reasonable provision. That provision says that, for the purposes of awarding attorneys' fees and expenses for those actions, the matters of issue shall be submitted to arbitration before a panel of arbitrators. 
In other words, they are not going to give the trial lawyers a free ride here. They are going to require them to submit their fees to arbitration. They are going to have to come in and justify those fees. 
In any such arbitration, the panel shall consist of three attorneys, one of whom will be chosen by the Castano plaintiffs' litigation committee, that is, the plaintiffs' attorneys who were signatories to the June 20, 1997 settlement agreement. 
It seems to me that our distinguished Senator from Arizona did a good job in putting this provision in. A similar provision is in the legislation I filed on November 13. 
This represents a reasonable approach to the problem. 
The fact of the matter is that I have devoted a lot of study to the Castano group. 
And, yes, most of them are Democrats. Most of them are liberal Democrats at that. But there are a number of them who are Republicans, a very small percentage of them. 
The fact of the matter is that politics should not play a part in this. Without the Castano group, we would not be debating this issue; we would not have been able to bring national debate to the point of considering a bill which penalizes the tobacco industry anywhere between $368.5 billion and estimates as high as $800 billion over 25 years. 
I believe that members of the Castano group alone have spent somewhere between $20 million and $40 million in basic time alone. That is a lot of money. Some have argued that this figure could approach $100 million. 
This has been going on for years, in State after State. It has been going on at the expense of the attorneys, without whom we would not be having this opportunity to start a whole new national War on Tobacco. 
I have to admit, at times my angst over the trial lawyers' support for one side or another shows at times. That is true for most Senators. And the trial bar has brought a lot of this criticism upon itself, to be fair. They seem to be looking out only for their interests sometimes, which is not unusual in the business community. 
But we should not allow that to cloud the facts on this issue. We should think twice before we move toward having the Congress of the United States set attorneys' fees. 
What is it going to be next? Accounting fees? What is it going to be? Private doctors' fees? Our public attempts at rate setting already have proven how government interference can distort the marketplace. 
But I agree with the Senator from South Carolina--this is the last bastion of freedom there is. 
Whether you like the trial lawyers or not, they take cases that nobody else will take. They do it at their own expense many times. Yes, they make a lot of money, if they are good enough. But the fact of the matter is they play a very significant and important role in our society. It is just that simple. 
I agree with many of my colleagues on the other side. Large hourly legal fees are a concern. That is why the bill sets up an arbitration panel which will examine fees based on set criteria such as the time spent and the complexity of the case. Attorneys should have to justify their fees; I don t disagree with that position. 
I cannot condone legal fees which approach $1,000 per hour. But that is not the real issue. When we start setting attorneys' fees, whether they are $100, $250, $500, or $1,000, it is a very serious matter.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me close with this. 
I am very sympathetic to the motivation of this amendment and to the arguments that the Senator from North Carolina has made. 
However, there are a number of reasons that I have given here that this amendment is flawed and, in fact, is unlawful. 
As much as I dislike this Commerce Committee bill, and as much as I think it is a piling on, the approach it uses to resolve the attorneys' fees issue is far more preferable than an arbitrary price cap. 
For Congress to interfere retroactively with private contracts would be, in my opinion, unconstitutional. Congress should not break private contracts. 
The June 20, 1997, settlement recognized that a private agreement between a plaintiff and his or her attorney is a legally enforceable contract with which we should not unilaterally interfere, however well-intentioned our motives are. 
Such interference by capping a contractual fee might very well constitute a taking under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. The Supreme Court cases clearly say that the Federal Government cannot confiscate money or interfere with a lawful contract. 
Under any view of federalism, there is no justification whatsoever for Congress, entering the field of pure State activity to alter the rights and remedies of private parties and then dispensing, with no due process, protections guaranteed by the Constitution. 
Regulation of attorneys' fees properly belongs in the domain of the States. Such usurpation of State prerogatives may very well violate the Tenth Amendment. Recent court opinions such as New York v. United States and Prinz v. United States have made the Tenth Amendment a shield against Federal imposition on the sovereign authority of the States. 
State courts have already shown a willingness to step in and prevent unreasonable and excessive fees in tobacco settlements. For example, in the Florida case, the Court threw out a contingency fee arrangement where it was found to be clearly excessive. This shows that the State courts will be best equipped to address this issue by utilizing the arbitration clause of the Commerce Committee bill. 
I think we must also examine the precedent we are setting here in having the U.S. Congress consider singling out any profession for a cap on their earnings. We do not do this for corporate CEOs, although we have tried in the past. We don't do it for sports figures or entertainers, for that matter. Should we consider capping Jerry Seinfeld's pay because he makes tens of millions of dollars a year, or my dear friend Karl Malone because he makes millions of dollars every year as one of the greatest basketball players who ever lived? 
No, we don't do that, and we should not be doing it here, even though I do have some sympathy for what motivates the distinguished Senators on the other side of this issue. 
I compliment my friend from South Carolina in his statements here today. They are fair statements for the most part, arguing that, without the trial lawyers being able to take contingent fee cases and to be able to uphold the rights of the downtrodden and those who don't have any money and those who can't afford any attorneys, we would not have nearly the justice ideal we have today. 
I also compliment my colleagues from Alabama and North Carolina, who have argued very forcefully and potently for this amendment. They make a number of compelling arguments. 
I know I have taken too long and I apologize to my colleagues. I feel deeply about this. 
I recognize I have irritated just about everybody in the debate. I haven't meant to. It isn't my desire. 
I feel very deeply we need to pass a strong anti-tobacco bill which is constitutionally sound and which will not be litigated for years. The best way to do this is to model it after the agreement reached last year between all the parties. 
That, I believe, would be in the best interests of our children. 
I cannot tolerate the fact we are going to have 10 years of litigation because we are considering faulty legislation. We should be pulling the companies in, albeit kicking and screaming, and making them be active participants. I want them to be part of the solution. Some may view that as naive, but I am optimistic. 
The fact that we are considering legislation with such obvious flaws bothers me terribly. I am also bothered by the fact that we will go so far as to start setting professional fees here in the Congress of the United States. 
Having said that, I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This is not some itty-bitty bill. This involves as much as $860 billion, according to some. 
Is the Senator aware of that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is the Senator aware that there are all kinds of viewpoints about this bill? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. On both sides of the floor. 
Is the Senator aware that, frankly, there is no way of getting voluntary protocols under this bill that would resolve the constitutional issues involved in this bill, especially with regard to the look-back provisions, the ban on advertising, and other issues? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have to tell the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma that we had constitutional experts come in and say there is no way that look-back provision is constitutional. They are also saying that, of course, they tried to cure the advertising restrictions by adopting the FDA regulation. But we have top-flight, from the left to the right, constitutional experts saying that is unconstitutional. 
Then, last but not least, we have a section 14 on here that basically talks about the other advertising restrictions that almost everybody agrees are essential if we want to do something about teen smoking, and, by gosh, those other advertising provisions have got to have a voluntary protocol, have to have the tobacco companies on board in order to be effective, or they are unconstitutional. What are we going to do? Vote for an unconstitutional bill, or work on it, and work, as the Senate should, on a bill that could amount to as much as close to $900 billion? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Senate is today considering The American Competitiveness Act of 1998, a modest, balanced, and critical change in our immigration laws. 
The bill does three very important things: (1) it raises the limit on the annual number of temporary visas allowed for highly skilled foreign born professionals for a five-year period; (2) it increases enforcement and penalties to ensure the program works as intended; and (3) it increases the opportunities for American students and workers to fill the shortage of skilled high tech workers. 
As we approach the 21st century, Mr. President, we face a critical challenge with respect to our workforce. The challenge concerns whether and how America's businesses and America's educational institutions are preparing the potential workforce for the 21st century. 
It is estimated that about ten percent of this country's current information technology jobs are vacant and that this critical shortage of programmers, systems analysts, and computer engineers will increase significantly in the next decade. 
In few places is this shortage more acute than in my own state of Utah where the high tech industry grew by 12 percent in 1996 and where our 1,900 high tech companies plan to add almost 20,000 jobs annually in the next three years. The primary potential impediment to our state's growth is the shortage of skilled workers. 
Frankly, as I see it, we are only facing a real crisis if we fail to respond. For now I view it as an opportunity and a challenge; perhaps the greatest challenge of the next century. This challenge is to match the needs of high tech employers with the preparedness of and opportunities for the American worker. 
Meeting this challenge effectively will demand the attention and commitment of businesses large and small; of our educational system at every level; of government, principally at the state and local level; and of parents and students as well. All of these entities must be working in partnership. 
Just weeks ago, Mr. President, a new comprehensive international study listed American high school seniors as among the industrial world's least prepared in mathematics and science. Further, in advanced subjects like physics and advanced math not one of the countries involved scored lower than the U.S. If we ever needed a wake-up call, this is it. 
It is in everyone's individual interests, as well as in the overall interests of this country, to enter the next century with a well-trained workforce that will help keep American companies competitive in the global economy. 
Admittedly, as the grandparent of 17 young children who will be entering the workforce in the next century, I am enthusiastic that technology has opened so many tremendous opportunities. It remains clear that human capital is still the greatest asset this country has. Without human know-how, the most sophisticated of computers is just a dumb machine. 
Given that, there is no reason for any individual in our society who is willing to work should be left behind--not women, minorities, or the disabled. Responding aggressively and intelligently to the need to educate, train, and retrain the potential pool of high tech workers in the next century is the kind of affirmative action that can ensure that all individuals have the opportunity to work hard and prosper in the next century. 
It is, however, an unfortunate reality that this kind of long term solution is insufficient to meet our most 
immediate needs. Thus, this legislation focuses on a limited short-term measure to raise the annual cap, currently at 65,000, for temporary visas for highly skilled workers. Notably, the cap for this year was reached last week! 
Mr. President, as I understand it, critics of this legislation have focused on two arguments. First, some argue that there is no real shortage in high tech workers. While this will be addressed in more detail in due course, let me just say that I think any member with doubts over which bureaucratic study to believe ought to check the help wanted ads in their Sunday home town papers. I think those long list of job vacancies for computer and engineering jobs tell the story. 
Further, critics argue that in exchange for this modest, five year increase in temporary visas, we need vast new bureaucratic requirements to protect American workers. 
Mr. President, we will debate this question in more detail later, but let me respond briefly now. 
First, I think the record is pretty clear that the temporary use of a limited amount of foreign talent--many of whom have attended U.S. universities and graduate schools--creates more, not fewer jobs for Americans. It also insures that American employers do not move to other countries with more and cheaper labor. 
Second, there are already important limits in the law to make sure this program is not abused and that these visas are not used to hire cheaper labor. This bill enhances both the limits and restrictions on the use of these visas. 
But at some point, Mr. President, you can go so overboard that a program becomes a bureaucratic nightmare of regulation and it is just not worth it, particularly for small and medium sized employers. I think that some of the alternatives proposed here--in response to a five year increase in temporary visas by about 25,000 a year--cross that line. 
Finally, as we debate these so-called `labor protection' provisions, I think we need a little perspective here on what aspect of our immigration policy really puts American jobs at risk. (A) We have hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants entering this country every year on top of the estimated 5 million illegal immigrants already here. (B) This Administration has a terrible record of failing to identify and deport criminal aliens who are released from prison and remain in this country. (C) We have a horrible situation of an inestimable number of smuggled immigrants being used as slaves and indentured servants. 
I think that these areas ought to be our principal focus if we want to protect jobs for American workers, not finding more bureaucratic hurdles for a small and limited program with a history and record of little abuse. 
I want to close for now, Mr. President, by recognizing the hard work and leadership of the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Immigration, Senator Abraham. 
I urge my colleagues to pass this important bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this week we have been commemorating Peace Officer's Memorial Week, in honor of those law enforcement and public safety officers who have died in the line of duty. As we remember those who have fallen in defense of the public safety, it is highly fitting that the Senate consider legislation to help save police officers' lives, and also to do all we can to comfort and assist the families and loved ones they have left behind. Thus, I am gratified by the Senate's action today in passing three bills to accomplish these goals. 
The first of these bills is S. 1605, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act. This bill establishes a matching program to help States, units of local government, and Indian tribes to purchase armor vests for use by law enforcement officers. The lives of our law enforcement officers will be secured by ensuring that every police officer who needs a bulletproof vest receives one, providing an increased measure of protection to those who protect the public. 
The FBI estimates that nearly one third of the 1,182 law enforcement officers killed by a firearm in the line of duty since 1980 would be alive if they had worn a bulletproof vest. The FBI also approximates that the risk of fatality to law enforcement officers while not wearing an armor vest is 14 times higher than for officers wearing an armor vest. In addition, the Department of Justice estimates that nearly 150,000 State, local, and tribal law enforcement officers, roughly 25 percent, are not currently issued body armor. This piece of legislation will save officers' lives by helping get vests to those who need them. 
The second of these bills is the Care for Police Survivors Act of 1998, H.R. 3565. I was proud to introduce the Senate companion to this bill, S. 1985. This bill will strengthen programs available to the families of our slain police officers. For example, groups such as Concerns for Police Officers, more commonly referred to as COPS, will now be allowed to increase and improve their services to these families. Authority will be given to the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance to spend no less than $150,000 out of the Public Safety Officers' Benefits program to support and enrich national peer support and counseling programs for families of police officers lost in the line of duty. 
This act will also expedite the process of handling cases pending before the Public Safety Officers' Benefits Office by allowing the expenditure of PSOB program funds on outside hearing officers. Currently, survivors of fallen police officers have to wait entirely too long to obtain an appeal hearing for denial of benefits. By enacting this bill, we will make the process of helping these families less burdensome. 
Finally, S. 1525, the Public Safety Officers Educational Assistance Act of 1998, will provide aid to the families of those federal law enforcement officers who are killed or totally disabled in the line of duty. By amending the Federal Law Enforcement Dependents Assistance Act, also known as the Degan Law, approximately $4,500 per year in college assistance will be awarded to participants--the children and spouses of these great officers. Under S. 1525, the current program will be expanded to cover state and local public safety officers as well. I am a proud supporter of this program that will both promote and fund education for the small number of families of those who have given their lives or health while protecting our communities. 
The Department of Justice estimates that approximately 55 persons would take advantage of this amendment at an additional cost of $330,000 per year. Neither the existing scholarship program nor the expansion are an entitlement, and the cost of the scholarships can be covered under the appropriation for the existing Public Safety Officers benefit program. What an incredible service this will provide. 
Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate has chosen Police Officers Memorial Day to pass these three bills. I believe that by passing this legislation, we can acknowledge a small measure of our tremendous gratitude and support for these heroes and their families. I thank my colleagues for their support of these bills.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would like to yield to the distinguished Senator from Arizona for an amendment that he has to take care of. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask this time not be charged. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask that time not be charged to the present act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, S. 2037. The DMCA is the most comprehensive bill that has come before the Senate regarding the Internet and the digital world in general. 
The DMCA in Title I implements the World Intellectual Property (WIPO) treaties on copyright and on performers and phonograms, and in Title II limits the copyright infringement liability of on-line and Internet service providers (OSPs and ISPs) under certain circumstances. The DMCA also provides in Title III a minor but important clarification of copyright law that the lawful owner or lessee of a computer may authorize someone to turn on their computer for the purposes of maintenance or repair. Title IV addresses the issues of ephemeral recordings, distance education, and digital preservation for libraries and archives. 
Due to the ease with which digital works can be copied and distributed worldwide virtually instantaneously, copyright owners will hesitate to make their works readily available on the Internet without reasonable assurance that they will be protected against massive piracy. Legislation implementing the treaties provides this protection and creates the legal platform for launching the global digital on-line marketplace for copyrighted works. It will facilitate making available quickly and conveniently via the Internet the movies, music, software, and literary works that are the fruit of American creative genius. It will also encourage the continued growth of the existing off-line global marketplace for copyrighted works in digital format by setting strong international copyright standards. 
The copyright industries are one of America's largest and fastest growing economic assets. According to International Intellectual Property Alliance statistics, in 1996 (when the last full set of figures was available), the U.S. creative industries accounted for 3.65% of the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP)--$278.4 billion. In the last 20 years in which comprehensive statistics are available--1977-1996--the U.S. copyright industries' share of GDP grew more than twice as fast as the remainder of the economy--5.5 percent versus 2.6 percent. 
Between 1997 and 1996, employment in the U.S. copyright industries more than doubled to 3.5 million workers--2.8 percent of total U.S. employment. Between 1977 and 1996 U.S. copyright industry employment grew nearly three times as fast as the annual rate of the economy as a whole--4.6 percent versus 1.6 percent. In fact, the copyright industries contribute more to the U.S. economy and employ more workers than any single manufacturing sector, including chemicals, industrial equipment, electronics, food processing, textiles and apparel, and aircraft. 
More significantly for the WIPO treaties, in 1996 U.S. copyright industries achieved foreign sales and exports of $60.18 billion, for the first time leading all major industry sectors, including agriculture, automobiles and auto parts, and the aircraft industry. There can be no doubt that copyright is of supreme importance to the American economy. Yet, American companies are losing $18 to $20 billion annually due to the international piracy of copyrighted works. 
But the potential of the Internet, both as information highway and marketplace, depends on its speed and capacity. Without clarification of their liability, service providers may hesitate to make the necessary investment to fulfill that potential. In the ordinary course of their operations service providers must engage in all kinds of acts that expose them to potential copyright infringement liability. 
For example, service providers must make innumerable electronic copies in order simply to transmit information over the Internet. Certain electronic copies are made to speed up the delivery of information to users. Other electronic copies are made in order to host World Wide Web sites. Many service providers engage in directing users to sites in response to inquiries by users or they volunteer sites that users may find attractive. Some of these sites might contain infringing material. In short, by limiting the liability of service providers, the DMCA ensures that the efficiency of the Internet will continue to improve and that the variety and quality of services on the Internet will continue to expand. 
Besides the major copyright owners and the major OPSs and ISPs (e.g., the local telephone companies, the long distance carriers, America OnLine, etc.), the Committee heard from representatives of individual copyright owners and small ISPs, from representatives of libraries, archives and educational institutions, from representatives of broadcasters, computer hardware manufacturers, and consumers--and this is not an exhaustive list. 
Title II, for example, reflects 3 months of negotiations between the major copyright owners and the major OSPs, and ISPs, which I encouraged and in which I participated, and which took place with the assistance of Senator Ashcroft. Intense discussions took place on distance education too, with the participation of representatives of libraries, teachers, and educational institutions, and with the assistance of Senator Leahy, Senator Ashcroft, and the Copyright Office. 
As a result, the Committee took substantial steps to refine the discussion draft that I laid down before the Committee through a series of amendments, each of which was adopted unanimously. For example, the current legislation contains: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This is a technical amendment, and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield the floor. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me just praise my colleague from Missouri. Senator Ashcroft has been committed and has worked very, very hard to make this bill one that all of us can support. He has done a terrific job. He has worked on this OSP liability thing with us ad infinitum and added matters to this bill that made this a much better bill and strengthened the bill. I just could not feel better about somebody on my committee working on this bill than I do toward Senator Ashcroft. I just wanted to say he played a significant role in this legislation. I personally thank him. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. ASHCROFT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we are prepared to yield back the remainder of our time. First, I understand that the Senator from Illinois would like up to 2 minutes. We will yield that time to him, and then we will yield the remainder of the time and go to a vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator Leahy and myself, I yield the remainder of our time. The yeas and nays have been ordered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I compliment the distinguished Senator from Iowa and the distinguished Senator from Illinois for their work on this bill. 
This is called the Religious Liberty and Charitable Donations Act of 1998, and I urge all of my colleagues to vote for its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me yield to my colleague from Iowa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about S. 1260, the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998. I am pleased that this bill is being acted upon today. Enactment of this bill will implement the underlying purpose of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 by establishing uniform standards governing private securities litigation. 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provided a `safe harbor' for forward-looking statements in order to encourage companies to make voluntary disclosures regarding future business developments. This objective was important to provide an environment in which companies could provide more information to potential investors without undue risk of litigation. 
Since passage of the 1995 Act, however, actions are often filed in state courts in order to circumvent these very protections. The resulting threat of frivolous lawsuits and liability under state law discourages corporate disclosure of forward-looking information to investors, eroding investor protection and jeopardizing the capital markets that are so important to the productivity of the fast-growing sectors of our economy. 
Uniform liability standards eliminate this threat and the drag on our economy which it causes. The enactment of this bill will, I believe, be a great impetus for new businesses, especially those in the rapidly growing high-tech and bio-tech fields of our economy. This bill thereby creates a business atmosphere that encourages, rather than inhibits economic growth. 
I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting passage of S. 1260, the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1968.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am proud to introduce the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children Authorization Act of 1998. This bill recognizes the outstanding record of achievements of this outstanding organization and will enable NCMEC to provide even greater protection of our Nation's children in the future. 
As part of the Missing Children's Assistance Act, the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention has selected and given grants to the Center for the last 14 years to operate a national resource center located in Arlington, Virginia and a national 24-hour toll-free telephone line. The Center provides invaluable assistance and training to law enforcement around the country in cases of missing and exploited children. The Center's record is quite impressive, and its efforts have led directly to a significant increase in the percentage of missing children who are recovered safely. 
In fiscal year 1998, the Center received an earmark of $6.9 million in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations conference report. In addition, the Center's Jimmy Ryce Training Center received 1.185M in this report. 
This legislation directs OJJDP to make a grant to the Center and authorizes appropriations up to $10 million in fiscal years 1999 through 2003. The authorization would, of course, be subject to appropriations. The bill thus continues and formalizes NCMEC's long partnership with the Justice Department and OJJDP. 
NCMEC's exemplary record of performance and success, as demonstrated by the fact that NCMEC's recovery rate has climbed from 62% to 91%, justifies action by Congress to formally recognize it as the nation's official missing and exploited children's center, and to authorize a line-item appropriation. This bill will enable the Center to focus completely on its missions, without expending the annual effort to obtain authority and grants from OJJDP. It also will allow the Center to expand its longer-term arrangements with domestic and foreign law enforcement entities. By providing an authorization, the bill also will allow for better congressional oversight of the Center. 
The record of the Center, described briefly below, demonstrates the appropriateness of this authorization. 
For fourteen years the Center has served as the national resource center and clearinghouse mandated by the Missing Children's Assistance Act. The Center has worked in partnership with the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Treasury, the State Department, and many other federal and state agencies in the effort to find missing children and prevent child victimization. 
The trust the federal government has placed in NCMEC, a private, non-profit corporation, is evidenced by its unique access to the FBI's National Crime Information Center, and the National Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (NLETS). 
NCMEC has utilized the latest in technology, such as operating the National Child Pornography Tipline, establishing its new Internet website, www.missingkids.com, which is linked with hundreds of other websites to provide real-time images of breaking cases of missing children, and, beginning this year, establishing a new CyberTipline on child exploitation. 
NCMEC has established a national and increasingly worldwide network, linking NCMEC online with each of the missing children clearinghouses operated by the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. In addition, NCMEC works constantly with international law enforcement authorities such as Scotland Yard in the United Kingdom, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, INTERPOL headquarters in Lyon, France, and others. This network enables NCMEC to transmit images and information regarding missing children to law enforcement across America and around the world instantly. NCMEC also serves as the U.S. State Department's representative at child abduction cases under the Hague Convention. 
The record of NCMEC is demonstrated by the 1,203,974 calls received at its 24-hour toll-free hotline, 1(800)THE LOST, the 146,284 law enforcement, criminal/juvenile justice, and healthcare professionals trained, the 15,491,344 free publications distributed, and, most importantly, by its work on 59,481 cases of missing children, which has resulted in the recovery of 40,180 children. 
NCMEC is a shining example of the type of public-private partnership the Congress should encourage and recognize. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which would help improve the performance of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and thus the safety of our Nation's children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today we will cast one the most important votes of the 105th Congress. We will vote on reforming the Internal Revenue Service. 
Of all the powers bestowed upon a government, the power of taxation is the one most open to abuse. As the agency responsible for implementing and enforcing the tax laws that we here in Congress pass, no other agency touches the lives of American citizens more completely than the IRS. 
I believe that Americans understand and appreciate that they have to pay taxes. Without their tax dollars, there would be no defense; no Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid; no environmental protections; no assistance for education or job training; no national parks, food inspection, or funds for highway and bridges. 
But, everywhere I go in Utah, I hear from my constituents about their frustrations. My office receives numerous letters each month detailing taxpayer interactions with the IRS. It seem that everyone has had, or knows someone who has had, a bad experience with the IRS. 
The stories range from small annoyances such as unanswered phones or long periods of time spent on hold to shocking abuses such as unwarranted seizures of assets or criminal investigations being based on false information for the purpose of personal revenue. It is small wonder that the taxpayers are scared and frustrated. These stories illustrate a disturbing trend. They are dramatic reminders of the failure of Congress to exercise adequate oversight over a federal agency. 
I have been here long enough to know that we are never going to be able to achieve a system where people do not get frustrated about paying their taxes--both the process of paying taxes and the amounts. Let's face it: paying taxes is not something we will ever enjoy doing. 
We must, however achieve a system of collection that is efficient, fair, and, above all, honest. Unfortunately, throughout the hearings we have held over the last several months and in the letters my office has received from constituents from my state of Utah and all over the country, we know that the current system often fails on these counts. 
We have heard several horror stories from taxpayers, innocent spouses, IRS employees, and those who have been the subjects of criminal raids and investigations. While these are the minority of the cases dealt with by the IRS, they still illustrate that serious abuses are occurring. 
We are not taking about appropriate enforcement of the law. We are talking about heavy-handed abuses of enforcement powers. At best, such tactics are counterproductive; at worst, it is reprehensible behavior by big government. It must stop. 
The bill before us today gives the IRS Commissioner great flexibility to carry out a fundamental reorganization of the agency. But, it also places the IRS under an independent, most private-sector board to oversee the big picture of operations at the agency. These are two very important elements to creating a new culture of the IRS: responsible leadership and accountability. 
I commend the new Commissioner for the steps he has taken so far to rectify these problems at the IRS, and I encourage him to keep going. And, I hope he will not feel constrained by `business as usual' attitudes among those who have an interest in maintaining the current methods. I hope the new Commissioner will shake any dead wood out of the tree. 
But Mr. Rosotti needs to know that Congress will hold him and the agency accountable. And, our expectations--and the expectations of the American people--are not hard to fathom. 
We do not expect tax delinquents or cheats to go undetected or unpenalized. But, we do expect the IRS to enforce our tax laws appropriately. We expect the IRS to assist taxpayers to understand and comply with complicated laws and regulations. We expect taxpayers to be treated courteously . We expect taxpayers' questions to be answered promptly and their returns processed efficiently. And, we expect any penalties to fit the crime. 
Today, we will vote on a bill that takes a leap forward in eradicating a culture that has allowed corruption and abuse to occur over and over again and to taint the efforts of honorable IRS employees. There has been a lot of talk about changing the IRS into a service-oriented agency, and the bill before us goes a long way towards dong just that. We cannot stop there, however. 
While customer service is an important part of the equation, we must go further and address taxpayer rights. The bill before us goes one more step forward and will reform the penalty system, provide taxpayer more protections from unwarranted seizures, and make the IRS more accountable for the actions of its agents. 
This bill goes further than the legislation passed by our counterparts in the House last fall. The Senate legislation expands key aspects to grant taxpayers additional protections. The Senate bill adds protections that allow spouses to choose proportional liability, award attorney's fees in more cases, require that the IRS specify to an individual the details of any penalty imposed and suspend interest and some penalties if the IRS does not provide notice of liability within one year after a return is filed. 
The bill would add several provisions dealing with the due process of taxpayers including a requirement that the IRS notify taxpayers 30 days before a notice of federal lien, levy, or seizure is filed; a guarantee that the taxpayer has 30 days to request a hearing by IRS Appeals; and the opportunity for the taxpayer to petition the Tax Court to contest the Appeals decision. 
The bill also permits an issuer of tax-exempt bonds to appeal the decision of the IRS through the tax court system. This will help protect the individual taxpayers from having to go to court on an individual basis to fight the IRS determination that a bond issue is not tax-exempt. This is extremely important to those municipalities that issue these bonds. These bonds are issued for tax-exempt purposes, such as to construct schools or build hospitals and universities. This is a good provision to provide an avenue of appeals for these bond issuers. 
The legislation before us today will fundamentally change how the IRS works. It is a necessary and bold set of initiatives. But, we cannot just declare victory and bask in the glow of a job well done. We must remember how we got to this point in the first place. 
The IRS was not born evil, and it is not an inherently bad organization. Rather, it has suffered from decades of neglect and inadequate oversight. Once we have set the agency on the road to recovery and given it the tools it needs to move forward, we must continue to guide it and ensure that the agency continues down the right road. We must continue to responsibly exercise our oversight responsibility. We must have continued hearings, reviews, and cooperation. Left alone, any entity with power and authority will lose its way. Without continued oversight and cooperation, we will soon see this debate repeated on the Senate floor. 
This legislation can be summed up in one word--accountability. For too long, the IRS and its employees have operated in an environment with little or no accountability. This bill changes all that. The legislation before us makes individual IRS employees accountable for their actions. It makes management more accountable for the treatment given taxpayers and other employees. Finally, it makes the agency as a whole more accountable to the Congress and the American taxpayer. 
This debate has focused on the negative--on the abuses and misdeeds that are the exception and not the rule. Just as a vast majority of the taxpayers are honestly trying to comply with the tax code, the vast majority of IRS employees are honest and hard working individuals doing their best in a very difficult and unpopular job. 
Yes, abuses do occur, and we must reform the system to prevent improper activities. At the same time, we must make sure that we acknowledge those employees who are doing their jobs with competence and integrity. These employees are the reason that most taxpayers today, even if frustrated by the forms and irritated with the amount of their tax bill, continue to comply. 
Is this bill perfect? No. There are some things I would like to see changed. For example, I have some serious concerns about the creation of an accountant-client privilege in this context. I am concerned that we are using the Internal Revenue Code to effectively amend the Federal Rules of Evidence. We have a clear procedure for amending these rules already set out. Changing these rules is no simple matter. It should only be done through careful, deliberate evaluation of the change and the effect it will have on the judicial system. It should only be done with input from the Judicial Conference of the United States and others. 
Despite these misgivings, Mr. President, I want to reiterate the importance of the bill before us today. The IRS touchers more taxpayers in more aspects of their lives than probably any other agency. It is an important bill, and we must pass it. 
The ultimate goal of reforming the IRS is to protect both the honest taxpayer trying to comply with our complex tax laws and those honest employees struggling to enforce an almost incomprehensible set of tax laws with integrity. The bill before us today makes significant progress toward that goal. 
I want to commend Senator Roth, Senator Moynihan, and my colleagues on the Finance Committee for seeing this bill through. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, to date, our efforts to develop comprehensive, bipartisan anti-tobacco legislation have been stymied by the lack of consensus on a number of major issues. 
Over the next few weeks, I intend to devote full attention toward refocusing our efforts on a bill which can be enacted this year. 
To accomplish that goal, it is important that Congress and the Administration reflect on what our objective actually has been--and should continue to be. 
Last June, the 40 State Attorneys General, public health representatives, tobacco company officials, and representatives of the Castano group, announced a bold new initiative focused on eradicating the scourge of youth tobacco use. 
This proposed global tobacco settlement presents Washington with a once-in-a-generation-opportunity to help families and communities raise a whole generation of youth tobacco-free. 
Certainly, no one in Congress was bound to the particulars of the June agreement. 
But, we would not have seen such virtually unprecedented legislative consideration of the tobacco issue in the past 11 months were it not for this settlement. 
In short, our objective in 1997 was to improve the public health, and specifically the health of our youth, through a constitutional package of reforms which relies on a guaranteed stream of revenue from tobacco companies. 
Our objective should be the same in 1998. 
But it appears that it is not. 
Unfortunately, partisan politics, fear, greed and Washington's pile-on mentality have caused us to lose sight of this objective. 
Instead, we are simply trying to `out-tobacco' one another. If that continues, the public interest will not be served, and Big Tobacco will win. 
As an optimist, I remain hopeful the Congress will succeed this year in passing strong, anti-tobacco legislation that is comprehensive, workable, and Constitutionally-permissible. 
But as a realist, I also know that the events of the last few weeks, in which this issue has become increasingly fractionalized and politicized, make our task that much more difficult. 
Comprehensive tobacco legislation is now in jeopardy. Not for want of trying, to be sure, but for a lack of consensus on several crucial issues. 
For us to consider comprehensive tobacco legislation, and then to fail, would be a terrible loss, a loss for our country, a loss for our political system, and a loss for the generation of 
our youth America's parents hope to bring up tobacco-free. 
Let me be blunt. Our failure to enact comprehensive anti-tobacco legislation would also be a significant victory for the tobacco industry, an industry which has knowingly marketed harmful products for decades, deliberately targeting our youth in their quest for profits. 
Let me be equally frank. Passage of just any bill will be a significant loss for the American people, who should be able to rely on their legislators to write sound, responsible legislation. 
In writing a bill, we should not give in to the tobacco industry's demands. We should not give in to their less-than-veiled attempts to force both the Administration and the Congress into abandoning our objectives--addressing the problem of youth tobacco, reforming the legal system to allow for appropriate compensation to claimants, enhancing biomedical research with respect to tobacco, improving the public health, as well as helping our farmers transition away from growing tobacco. 
At the outset of my remarks, I want to distinguish carefully and clearly any substantive concerns I have about the legislation that has emerged from the Commerce Committee with my respect and admiration for those who have brought the legislation to this point. 
First and foremost, I commend the Chairman of the Commerce Committee, Senator McCain. Anybody who knows anything about John McCain knows that he is a patriot and true American hero. 
As I will lay out, while I do have significant concerns with many of the major details of the legislation that the Commerce Committee has put forward--and would have preferred that we could have worked more closely together--I do commend the efforts of all the members of the Commerce Committee in moving a bill forward for floor consideration. 
But before I discuss the policies of tobacco control, I want to sound a cautionary note about its politics. 
Pundits report that Democrats are in a `win-win' position on this issue. 
As conventional wisdom goes, the minority can keep on moving the goal posts of this legislation, proposing more and more harsh amendments, defying Republicans to vote against their ever-changing version of the bill. 
In this way, the Democrats can either foster the perception that they are tougher on Big Tobacco by making the bill more and more onerous, or they can tar and feather any recalcitrant Republicans with the charge that Republicans are in cahoots with Big Tobacco. That is pure bunk. 
Listening to the President's press conference last week, I was impressed by his earnest statement that this not be an election year issue. But, as we all well know, any issue raised consistently fewer than six months before an election is an election issue. It cannot be avoided. 
All rhetoric aside, the way to accomplish our goal--the reduction of youth tobacco use--is for the Congress and the White House to work together on a bill which can be enacted and implemented. We are not there yet, despite public protestations to the contrary. 
A number of key differences in approach are major stumbling blocks to enactment of a bill. These barriers include:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. In brief, the concerns highlighted in this letter from the Attorneys General of Colorado, Ohio, Utah and Washington are: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am told that this afternoon in New York City Bill Gates and a number of other executives from throughout the computer and software industries will be holding a press conference urging law enforcement officials not to interfere with the release of Windows 98. 
I certainly do not begrudge Mr. Gates or others in the industry to make their views known. That is what makes our democracy work. Indeed, I would like nothing more than to see more enlightened debate on this terribly important policy issue. But I cannot help but wonder how many of these executives are on that stage because they truly want to be. It strikes me as curious that it was only after calls from Microsoft that many of these individuals saw fit to sign letters and make public appearances. Indeed, I have been told that some executives in fact hope to see the Justice Department pursue further its case against Microsoft, but have chosen to join Mr. Gates on that stage today because they feel they have little choice but do so in order not to jeopardize their relationship with the industry's most powerful and important player. I understand perfectly well that no one would publicly admit as much, but, given recent developments, I do believe it is a question worth considering. 
But, I also think it is timely to review where we stand today as the Justice Department considers whether to bring a broader suit alleging anti-competitive or monopolistic practices by Microsoft. 
I first raised the question of Microsoft's seemingly exclusionary licensing practices last November. While we are not privy to all of the licensing and other practices the Justice Department has been scrutinizing, over the past few months a number of specific practices have come to light. In particular, we have learned that Microsoft not only tied the shipment of its browser, Internet Explorer, to its monopoly operating system, Windows, but also engaged in a series of licensing practices with respect to computer makers, Internet Service Providers, and Internet Content Providers which appear designed not to serve consumers but rather to exclude competing browser companies from the marketplace. For a company with a monopoly in the personal computer operating system market--and nobody other than Microsoft would dispute that the firm has monopoly power--to use its monopoly power to exclude potential rivals clearly raises serious antitrust concerns. 
Let me point out that such seemingly predatory and exclusionary practices raise concerns for even the most conservative, free-market antitrust thinkers. Judge Robert Bork, one of the most brilliant and highly respected conservative antitrust thinkers, and author of the renowned `Antitrust Paradox,' just yesterday explained in The New York Times why even he is troubled by what he has learned of Microsoft's practices. As Judge Bork wrote:  
[w]hen a monopolist employs practices and makes agreements that exclude competitors and does so without the justification that the practices and agreements benefit consumers, the company is guilty . . . of an attempt to monopolize in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act. When its own documents display a clear intent to monopolize through such means, the case is cold. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Anyone who knows Judge Bork knows that he would never take the position he has taken were he not convinced that it was 100 percent consistent with the antitrust views he has long espoused. 
Similarly, Daniel Oliver, former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission under President Reagan, just published a piece in the May 4 edition of The National Review. Mr. Oliver, long known as a free-market proponent who generally opposes all but the most justified government intervention in the marketplace, had this to say: 
If ever there was a case that raises consumer-welfare issues, this would seem to be it. Microsoft has a 90 per cent share of a world market; there are reasons to think that share will endure; Microsoft has engaged in restrictive practices; and many of those practices do not appear to have any efficiency justifications that would benefit consumers rather than the company. Where you find a dead body, a bloody knife, fingerprints, and a motive, there may have been a crime. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. There are those who object that the Government should not interfere with the dynamic hi-tech marketplace. I agree with those who espouse a natural, instinctive skepticism toward any Government intervention in the marketplace. But enforcement of the antitrust laws may be all the more important if innovation in the most important, fast-growing sector of our present and future economy is being suffocated under the thumb of a company both willing and able to exploit its monopoly power. 
The media campaign surrounding the public release of Windows 95 was accompanied by a theme song. As I recall, it was the Rolling Stones' hit song Start Me Up. For innovators seeking to compete with Bill Gates, for PC makers who feel that they have little choice but to steer clear of any actions that might upset their relationship with Microsoft, and for consumers, beholden to Microsoft for software products, I wonder whether the theme song for Windows 98 shouldn't be another Rolling Stones hit--Under My Thumb. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980430</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today regarding the topic before us: Senate ratification to amend the North Atlantic Treaty to allow for the accession of Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic. 
I wish to commend Senator Helms and Senator Biden for their sustained efforts to investigate thoroughly the issues inherent in this historic move. 
As befits the importance of the North Atlantic Treaty, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has held numerous public hearings and provided many briefings and reports giving consideration to all aspects--and all views--regarding this historic move. 
The Budget, Appropriations, Armed Services and Intelligence Committees in both bodies of Congress have further contributed to this valuable debate. Indeed, in the post-Cold War era in which we now find ourselves, I don't believe any issue has been more thoroughly vetted, and I thank my colleagues and the leaders of the relevant committees for their efforts. 
I have lent a great deal of thought to this issue. Amid the euphoria of 1989, when many focused on the stunning collapse of Soviet occupation throughout central and eastern Europe, we had to recognize that a yawning geopolitical vacuum had just opened. For the first few years we correctly focused on assisting the Germans in their successful reunification efforts, but as nascent democratic and free markets institutions arose in central Europe, the United States stepped in to assist and solidify these developments. 
The costs to us of solidifying these institutions were significantly less than the costs of waging the Cold War, but the benefits we saw--in terms of the freedom spread where darkness reigned for nearly half a century--were so much greater. 
Mr. President, I have regularly visited the countries that will soon be accepted as NATO's new members, sometimes on my own, sometimes with other members, and regularly with our delegations to the North Atlantic Assembly, recently under the leadership of my colleague Senator Roth. I have met with their political leaders, their military representatives, and local analysts on many occasions, as I have sought to measure their level of democratic advancement. 
In 1995, I was honored to address the first multinational graduating class from the International Law Enforcement Academy in Budapest, Hungary, where the FBI now works with law enforcement officials from throughout central Europe to assist in combating criminal challenges to us all. 
Democracy is strong in Hungary, Poland, and the Czech Republic. The rule of law is established, civilian control of militaries is well-established, and these nations rightly take their place alongside the nations of the West. 
There are a few voices, Mr. President, who argue that what the nations of central Europe need more than NATO membership is economic development. This is the essence of the amendment proposed by my respected colleague, Senator Moynihan, which requires European Union membership prior to the deposit of our instrument of ratification. 
With great respect for the senior Senator of New York, I must disagree: Yes, the countries of central Europe require economic development, but it is mistaken, in my view, to believe that economic development and geopolitical advantage are exclusive of each other. 
The European Union has only planned for joint defense capabilities; NATO has preserved the territorial integrity for its members for nearly half a century. The European Union excludes the United States; but the United States leads NATO. Therefore, subjecting determinations for future NATO expansions to the European Union is not only unwise, it is, in my view, illogical. 
Mr. President, you have heard this many times already in this debate, and I daresay you will hear it many more times. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is the most successful treaty defense organization in human history. 
Twice, before the founding of NATO, the United States was drawn into wars on the European continent, where we suffered huge losses of blood and treasure. An unbridled Germany and an unstable central Europe were predominant reasons for the calamities that became these world wars. The accession of the Federal Republic of Germany to NATO in 1955 firmly established free Germany into the community of western democracies. With the unification of Germany in 1990 following the collapse of the Soviet empire, the integration of Germany was complete. Throughout that period, NATO succeeded by the virtue of its defensive cohesiveness and its deterrent effect on the European continent. 
Today, we are set to integrate three important nations of central Europe, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland. With their integration, geopolitical space in central Europe will be firmly incorporated into the territory protected by the defensive military alliance of NATO. 
As the report accompanying the resolution of ratification asserts correctly: `With the enlargement of NATO, the United States and its allies have an opportunity to build a more stable Europe, to lock in that stability, and to replace the dynamics of confrontation and conflict with trust and cooperation.' 
Some have asserted that no threat exists to legitimize such an enlargement to the alliance now. 
Mr. President, the extension of geopolitical stability in Europe is an insurance policy against the future development of regional threats. The United States, and the United States Senate, should not need to wait for the development of an imminent threat in order to implement sound geopolitical strategy. 
NATO's mission has always been subject to certain applications beyond the core mission to defend territory. These applications have reflected consensus among members regarding military challenges, and I am hesitant to amend this resolution in any way that would impose definitions or mechanisms that might politicize the carefully honed language of the original North Atlantic Treaty. 
I believe the language of the resolution sufficiently asserts the central mission and strategic rationale for this enlargement. 
It is entirely reasonable for the Senate to carefully review the costs that this enlargement will incur. 
Through the years of considering this move, many numbers have been manufactured: the range has been startling and the spin has been confounding. 
I suppose it is somewhat predictable that attempts were made to politicize these numbers, but the scrutiny of many committee hearings have provided great focus. I am confident that the most recent GAO and CBO estimates are accurate: a total of $1.5 billion in increased U.S. contributions over the next 10 years. For increasing the geopolitical stability well into central Europe, this is a sound and defensible expenditure. 
A great deal of debate has focused on the consequences of NATO enlargement on Russian geopolitical behavior and U.S.-Russian relations. 
I am not convinced of any direct causality between NATO's decision to enlarge and the content and direction of Russian foreign policy. I think historians and analysts of Russia concur with my view. 
Despite an unprecedented U.S.-Russia relationship that has developed over the past decade, a relationship that has seen billions of U.S. 
assistance go to the development of Russian democratic institutions, a relationship that has seen Russian and American troops serving side-by-side in Bosnia, some believe that this expansion of NATO will poison our efforts, or will, in the words of some, `scare the Russians.' 
I have visited Russia many times in my career in the Senate, most recently three weeks ago. Senator Gordon Smith, who is chairman of the European Affairs Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and I had many meetings with the Russian foreign policy establishment, including Deputy Foreign Minister Mamedov, responsible for U.S.-Russia relations, and Andrey Kokoshin, Secretary of President Yeltsin's Security Council. We met with a number of Duma and Federation Council members. We discussed many aspects of our bilateral relations, and NATO was reviewed in every meeting. 
Every Russian official I met in Moscow objected to NATO enlargement. Yet every official I met denied that they believed NATO posed a military threat to Russia's territorial integrity, and every official I met admitted that, despite being unhappy with this enlargement, they were all reconciled to this development. Mr. President, no Russian--not one--told me that NATO enlargement would be a legitimate cause for reversal of Russia's domestic evolution toward democracy. 
Not one Russian official told me he was afraid of NATO enlargement. Not one Russian, Mr. President, objected to the new contiguous border between Poland and Kaliningrad. 
I must admit that I find this objection raised by opponents to enlargement to be somewhat bizarre. Since Turkey's accession to NATO in 1952, NATO had a long border with what was then the Soviet Union--we used to have nuclear-armed Jupiter missiles in that border country. We also had a contiguous border between NATO and the Soviet Union along Norway's eastern border with the Kola peninsula, behind which the Soviet Union's strategic naval forces resided. 
And now we have opponents objecting to a border with Kaliningrad, which is not contiguous with Russia itself? Or, even stranger, there are those who analogize the Kaliningrad situation with a Russian alliance with Mexico along our southern border. 
Such an argument would have been denounced 15 years ago as `moral equivalence.' Today, the Kaliningrad argument is ahistorical 
and simply dilatory. 
Every Russian I met three weeks ago told me they still objected to NATO enlargement, but told me also they wanted to work with the Founding Act instrumentalities and were eager to continue and expand our many levels of bilateral cooperation. 
The enlargement of NATO that this body will pass in the next few days is not short-sighted, Mr. President, but the most significant foreign policy act before the end of this century. 
It has been long-considered, and, frankly, desired even longer. I recall the days when we looked across the Iron Curtain to countries we knew had once had Western, democratic societies. 
I hope this is not the last enlargement, although I am confident that future enlargements, if they occur, will occur with the same detailed, painstaking consideration as we have conducted over the past four years. 
Over the course of this debate we will hear quoted many testimonials by Americans from all walks of life, both parties, and all regions in favor of the move we will ultimately take. 
It is particularly significant to me that the American Legion, as well as the American Veterans of Foreign Wars, have endorsed NATO enlargement. These men and women know the territory; they know the history; and they know the price. I'm proud to be associated with them on this important issue. 
Mr. President, I am a strong supporter of this historic move. The countries formerly imprisoned by the Soviets have come out of the cold, have elected democratic governments that have established the rule of law, civilian control over their militaries and individual liberty and free markets. They have all indicated strong support from their publics for NATO membership and its responsibilities. 
A geostrategic vacuum, long a source of instability on the European continent, is being filled--by an organization that is strictly defensive, with absolutely no offensive intentions. The action this body takes in the next few days--by ratifying this protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty--will not only extend stability into central Europe, but will extend the promise of peace and stability into the next century. 
I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.  
Mr. ASHCROFT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would authorize an interpretive center and visitor facilities at the Four Corners National Monument. As my colleagues know, Four Corners is the only place in our country where four state boundaries meet. Over a quarter of a million people visit this monument every year. 
The Four Corners area is also unique for reasons other than the political boundaries of four states. Once inhabited by the earliest Americans, the Anaxazi, this area is rich in historical, archaeological,and cultural significance as well as natural beauty. 
Currently, however, there is nothing at Four Corners that would help visitors to fully appreciate and learn about the area. And, at a national monument that has 250,000 visitors a year, one would expect certain basic facilities to exist--restrooms, for example. But, there is no electricity, running water, telephone, or permanent structure at Four Corners. 
The bill I am introducing today is simple: We propose a Federal matching grant to build an interpretive center and visitor facilities within the boundaries of Four Corners Monument Tribal Park. 
We are not suggesting a museum the size of the Guggenheim. But, exhibits on the history, geography, culture, and ecology of the region would significantly enhance the area and Americans' appreciation of this unique part of their country and their heritage. And, I daresay that some very basic guest amenities would enhance their enjoyment of it. 
There is, as you can imagine, a great deal of excitement and enthusiasm for this project from many fronts. Currently, the Monument is operated as one of the units of the Navajo Nation Parks and Recreation Department. And, since there has been so much debate about `monuments' recently, I should clarify that the Four Corners `Monument' is merely a slightly elevated concrete slab at the juncture of our four states. 
The Navajo Nation owns the land in the Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah quarters and the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe owns the quarter in Colorado. Although the Navajo Nation and the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe are fully supportive of the project and have entered into an agreement with one another in order to facilitate planning and development at the Four Corners Monument, neither Tribe has the necessary resources to improve the facilities and create an interpretive center at the Monument. 
The bill, however, does not contemplate federal government give-away. The bill requires matching funds from nonfederal sources and for the two tribes to work collaboratively toward the development of a financial management plan. It is intended that the Interpretive Center become fully self-sufficient within five years. 
The bill requires that proposals meeting the stated criteria be submitted to the Secretary of the Interior. These criteria include, among other things, compliance with the existing 
agreements between the Navajo and Ute Mountain Ute Tribes, a sound financing plan, and the commitment of nonfederal matching funds. The federal contribution would not exceed $2.25 million over a 5 year period. 
Over the past several years, the Navajo Nation has met with many of the local residents of the area and has found overwhelming support to improve the quality of the services provided at the Four Corners Monument. The local area suffers an unemployment rate of over 50 percent and any development which would create employment opportunities and would encourage visitors to stay longer in the area would be welcomed. 
Another important participant in the development of this proposal is the Four Corners Heritage Council. This Council, which was established in 1992 by the governors of the four states, is a coalition of private, tribal, federal, state, and local government interests committed to finding ways to make the economy of the Four Corners region sustainable into the future. The mission of the Heritage Council is to guide the region toward a balance of the sometimes competing interests of economic development, resource preservation, and maintenance of traditional life ways. 
Back in 1949, nearly 50 years ago, the governors of the states of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah assembled at the Four Corners in a historic meeting. Each governor sat in their respective state and had what is probably the most unusual picnic lunch in history. They pledged to meet often at the Four Corners Monument to reaffirm their commitment to working together. Clearly, the governors understood that they shared stewardship of a unique piece of western real estate. 
Mr. President, the heritage of this area belongs to all Americans. The small investment requested in this legislation will help bring it to life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980424</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, during the week of May 12, the country will honor once again those law enforcement and public safety officers who have died in the line of duty. It is entirely fitting that we do this. And as we remember those who have fallen in defense of the public safety, we should also do all we can to comfort and assist the families and loved ones they have left behind. The bill I rise to introduce today, the Care for Police Survivors Act of 1998, will help ensure that we are doing so. 
First, this bill, which was introduced in the House as H.R. 3565, will strengthen programs available to the families of slain police officers. For instance, the bill will allow groups like Concerns for Police Survivors, more commonly referred to as COPS, to increase and improve their services to these families. Second, this bill provides authority to the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance to spend no less than $150,000 out of the Public Safety Officers' Benefits program to support and enrich national peer support and counseling programs for families of police officers lost in the line of duty. 
Second, this act will expedite the process of handling cases pending before the Public Safety Officers' Benefits Office by allowing the expenditure of PSOB program funds on outside hearing officers. Currently, survivors of fallen police officers have to wait entirely too long to obtain an appeal hearing for the denial of benefits. By enacting this bill, we will make the process of helping these families less burdensome. 
I am pleased to be joined by Senators Biden, Leahy, DeWine, and Sessions in introducing this bill in the Senate. On Tuesday of this week, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H.R. 3565 by a 403 to 8 vote. I urge my colleagues to join me in expeditiously passing this legislation to demonstrate our tremendous gratitude and support for these heroes and their families.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980402</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I spent part of last weekend in San Antonio at the Alamodome watching some of the most exciting basketball I have seen in a long time. 
I was there as one of the `Runnin' Utes' biggest fans. In a state that has a strong basketball tradition, the University of Utah men's basketball team has given us an extraordinary season. Our entire state is proud of this team and proud of its coach, Rick Majerus. 
It is a tribute to the exceptional skills of any college team to make it to the `Final Four.' The two games on Saturday evening were a sports fan's dream. Stanford and North Carolina put their best into the games, and they were exciting to watch. 
Of course, I am disappointed in the outcome of Monday's final championship game in which Utah lost to another fine team from the University of Kentucky--a team which has become known as the `Comeback Cats.' 
Nevertheless, Monday night's championship game caps a brilliant season for the Utes that started with the longest undefeated streak in the country and ended in a fantastic tournament run to the finals. The championship battle showcased two teams that were not favored to be there. Despite Kentucky's tremendous history and great success in the 1990s, the Wildcats were overshadowed by other teams who filled the top spots in the polls all year. Similarly, Utah was overlooked by many sportswriters for much of the year, even though it began the season with the best record in the country. 
Mr. President, the University of Utah's season was a great accomplishment not only for the team, but also for the entire university community, the Western Athletic Conference, and the great State of Utah. 
Since taking over the reins at the `U' in 1989, Coach Rick Majerus has made Utah one of the best teams in the country during the 1990s. He has done so by encouraging tremendous discipline and work ethic, stressing both basketball fundamentals and positive attitude. Rick Majerus is also a coach who cares about his players beyond their ability to play ball; he understands the importance of other aspects of the university mission, including academics and community citizenship. It is important to note that Ute players have excelled in other pursuits as well. Seniors Michael Doleac and Drew Hansen, for example, are headed for medical school and law school respectively. 
Mr. President, I am extremely proud of the University of Utah for a tremendous year. It is said that everyone loves a winner. Well, this team has been truly outstanding both on and off the court. They have won with grace and lost with dignity. These same attributes are reflected in the loyal Utah fans. Some 4000 die-hard supporters viewed the game on a giant screen in the university's Huntsman Center. And, despite the heartbreaking loss, Ute fans have continued to be proud of their team. After the players and coaches returned to campus late Tuesday, they joined students and fans in an exuberant pep rally to celebrate their achievements. On Wednesday, a parade was held in their honor, culminating on the steps of City Hall. Mayor Deedee Corradini and the city council presented the team with the key to the city. 
I want to congratulate the entire Ute team: The coaching staff, including Coach Majerus and his great assistant coaches Donny Daniels, Jeff Judkins, and Brock Brundhorst. And, my hat is off to the players: Michael Doleac, Drew Hansen, Andre Miller, Hanno Mottola, Alex Jensen, Jordie McTavish, David Jackson, Nate Althoff, Greg Barratt, Jon Carlisle, Trace Caton, Britton Johnsen, and Adam Sharp. Thanks for giving us so much to cheer about.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980331</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. One minute on the Gregg amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980331</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I rise in opposition to the Gregg amendment. The Gregg amendment is an attempt to put the Senate on record against any liability provisions in connection with the tobacco bill now being formulated in the Commerce Committee. 
True, the amendment refers to `immunity.' Now, I do not want to give the tobacco industry and nobody else wants to give them immunity. No one does. However, the term `immunity' is broader than the limited liability provisions many of us believe are key to the comprehensive antitobacco global settlement bill. 
I fear many will seize upon what will be a near unanimous vote today to say the Senate opposes any liability provisions. That is not the case. And 284 days ago, 40 courageous State Attorneys General, both Democrats and Republicans, announced an agreement which should continue to be the basis of any legislation to curb youth smoking. It is predicated on large tobacco industry payments for a whole host of antitobacco programs, including cessation, prevention, and biomedical research. 
I, for one, continue to believe that the best way to ensure we will have the huge sums necessary to wean a generation of teens off tobacco is to guarantee there are industry payments. I do not believe that it will be possible to attain that without endorsing the framework of the AG settlement which does include some liability provisions. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am delighted that my dear friend Muhammad Ali has been named by Gentlemen's Quarterly as Athlete of the Century. 
We have had many noteworthy athletes in this century--the century that has brought us modern sport. Excellence has been personified by such sports heroes as Lou Gehrig, Babe Didrickson Zaharias, Bobby Orr, Walter Payton, and Michael Jordan. But, to my mind, though this company is clearly outstanding, GQ made the obvious choice. 
Muhammad Ali's road to sports immortality began on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky. Introduced to boxing at the age of 12, Ali won National AAU and Golden Gloves titles. He brought home the Olympic gold medal from Rome in 1960. 
After turning professional, he stunned the sports world by defeating the also great boxer Sonny Liston in 1964. His victories over such accomplished opponents as Liston, Floyd Patterson, Ernie Terrell, Joe Frazier, George Foreman, and Ken Norton make him, in my mind, the greatest boxer of all time. 
But Ali's greatness goes beyond his physical strength and athleticism, In 1964, he converted to the religion of Islam, adopting a set of beliefs for which he would sacrifice a great deal. In 1967, at the height of his career, he was convicted of draft evasion and stripped of his heavyweight title. For a period of three years, Ali was shunned by the boxing world and vilified by many who had previously hailed him. 
The conviction was eventually overturned by the United States Supreme Court, and Ali turned to the ring in 1970 and took on Joe Frazier in the `Fight of the Century.' This bout, between the only two undefeated fighters, resulted Ali's ascension as the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world. Ali brought speed and grace to the world of boxing, demonstrating how to `flit like a butterfly and sting like a bee.' 
Ali held this title until 1978 when he lost a hard fought bout to Leon Spinks in 15 rounds on points. But, just seven months later, he dethroned Spinks and recaptured the title for an unprecedented third time. 
I have come to admire Ali, however, not just for his unparalleled skill in the boxing ring, but also for his faith and his humanity. 
Ali has traveled the world on humanitarian missions. And he has given most unselfishly, particularly to young people. During his recent visit to Utah he was never without a gaggle of kids surrounding him. Even though the effects of Parkinson's disease have made speech difficult, he really does not need to talk to communicate. He exudes kindness and friendship. 
I am honored to count Ali and his wonderful wife Lonnie among my friends. I commend the writers and editors at GQ for selecting Ali for this very significant distinction. No one deserves it more. He's the greatest.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I rise today to recognize March as `Women's History Month.' It is appropriate that, at this time, we credit the countless women who have contributed so much to our society. In particular, I would like to draw attention to some of the women who have helped to shape the history of Utah. 
From its beginnings, Utah has relied heavily on the strength of women. The first groups of American settlers that crossed the continent to establish their homes in what is now Utah consisted of both men and women. Besides the simple rigors of walking hundreds of miles across the Great Plains and Rocky Mountains, these courageous pioneer women braved many trials such as extreme winter cold, lack of provisions, and the death of loved ones. They struggled to provide for the basic needs of their families. Sadly, many women had to witness the burial of their children and husbands along the way. Upon arriving in the valleys of the mountains, these pioneer women toiled along with the men to establish farms, schools, businesses, and towns. Their hard work, and dedication are reflected in the character of our State even today. 
Politically, Utah was a leader in recognizing the rights of women, and involving them in the process of government. Much has and will be said of the valiant efforts of women's suffrage activists such as Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Carrie Chapman Catt. This group of national heroes includes a Utahn by the name of Emmeline Wells. As an advocate for women's rights, Mrs. Wells worked to achieve a political voice for Utah women. She won her first battle in 1870, when the territorial legislature legally gave Utah women the right to vote. 
Unfortunately, the U.S. Congress stripped Utah women of their voting rights in 1887. Undaunted, Mrs. Wells and others formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah, the purpose of which was to reclaim their voting rights. These women finally succeeded in 1896, when Utah was admitted into the Union as a State with a constitution providing female suffrage. Emmeline Wells remained an active member of the Woman's Republican League and the National Suffrage Association, and kept up the suffrage campaign on the national level. 
I am proud to say that Utah was ahead of its time in this respect. By the end of 1896, only Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, and Colorado recognized women's right to vote. No other States granted this right for another 14 years. Later in 1896, the people of Utah elected Martha Hughes Cannon to be their first female state senator. And, proving that the past is prologue, women continue to play significant, influential leadership roles in our State. In 1991, Deedee Corradini was elected mayor of Salt Lake City, Utah's largest city and the seat of State government. In 1992, Olene Walker was elected Utah's Lieutenant Governor, and two recent members of Utah's delegation to the U.S. Congress have been women. 
Women have also added much to Utah's cultural heritage. A prime example is Alice Merrill Horne. She was an educator and prolific artist at the turn of the century. As a twenty-three year old in 1891, Alice was appointed chairperson of the Utah Liberal Arts Committee for the 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago. She published a book of poems composed by women for the exposition. 
Alice Merrill Horne became the second woman elected to the Utah House of Representatives in 1898. As an elected official, she continued to encourage cultural development. She moved a bill for the State to create the Nation's first art institute, which would encourage the fine arts, hold an annual art exhibition, and start a state-owned art collection. As a memorial to her, the state collection bears her name. 
Today's women continue the tradition of Mrs. Horne. In 1997, the Women's Center Advisory Board at Utah State University named a number of recipients of the Women Over 65 Achievement Awards. Among them was Ruth Call. Ruth became director of the Unicorn Theater in 1957. In this capacity she has brought beauty and happiness into the lives of children in Cache Valley by allowing them to participate in the performing arts. Since 1957, she has continued to influence children's lives through the theater, as a Girl Scout leader, and by her involvement in local art groups. Ruth Call is only one of the many modern unsung heroes who quietly enrich the lives of many. 
Ever since Utah's earliest periods, women have contributed in many ways in the professional sector. Patty Sessions was a pioneer midwife and horticulturist who developed her own strain of plums. Singer Emma Lucy Gates founded an opera company. Before her election to the state senate, Martha Hughes Cannon was a very successful medical doctor. 
Now more than ever, women are an integral part of the State's business sector. According to the National Foundation for Women Business Owners, between 1987 and 1996, the number of women-owned firms along Utah's Wasatch Front increased by 87 percent. Thus, Utah is among the top 10 states in the Nation for growth of women-owned firms. The NFWBO also said that women-owned companies represent 38 percent of all businesses in the area, employ 21 percent of all workers, and generate 24 percent of all sales. 
This is an exciting time for women's athletics as well. On the heels of Olympic gold medals for our teams in both the Summer and Winter Games, women's soccer, softball, basketball, and hockey have found a new popularity in the United States. This is combined with gold medals in more traditionally popular sports like figure skating, track and field, and gymnastics to showcase the athletic talent that abounds among our women. My State is very proud to be home to the Utah Starzz, one of the teams in the new Women's National Basketball Association. I'm a big fan. 
We are also very proud of the many female college athletes in our universities. Several of my State's college teams have achieved great success. In particular, I want to draw attention to one native Utahn who is leaving her mark on history. 
As a junior on the Brigham Young University track and field team, Tiffany Lott made 1997 a banner year. Set the world record in the 55-meter hurdles by running 7.30 seconds at the Western Athletic Conference indoor championships. This eclipsed the eight-year-old record previously held by the great Jackie Joyner Kersee. Tiffany also won the heptathalon at the NCAA Championships. En route to her victory, she scored the third-highest point total in the history of the women's pentathlon. These feats, among others, led Track & Field News magazine to name Tiffany Lott the female college athlete of the year. 
I have only touched on some of the many important achievments of Utah's women throughout our history. However, I cannot begin to give enough credit to the women who have added the most to our civilization, those who have influenced each one of us in some way. I wish to salute the countless women who have borne, nurtured, raised, instructed, and loved their children. I cannot think of a more important responsibility than that of a mother. Ironically, those who have had the greatest impact on us as a people are also those who receive the least public recognition. 
I invite my colleagues to join in celebrating Women's History Month by recognizing all that women have contributed to this Nation in both large and small ways. Much of the progress of America is owed to the perseverance, ingenuity, and dedication of women.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, Judge Massiah-Jackson has made the right decision in withdrawing her nomination to the Federal bench, given the strong bipartisan opposition from law enforcement groups, her demonstrated leniency in sentencing convicted criminals, and the Judiciary Committee's concerns about her lack of candor throughout the nomination process. I believe withdrawing the nomination was the right thing for her to do. Despite the fact that the committee afforded two hearings for this nominee, and gave her ample opportunity to answer criticisms of her record, her responses were found to be unconvincing. After having heard the nominee's testimony and having considered the information provided to the committee by law enforcement officials about her treatment of police officers in court and her flawed judicial rulings, I would not have voted to confirm this nominee to a lifetime appointment to the Federal bench. 
The events surrounding Judge Massiah-Jackson's nomination demonstrate the need for the Senate to scrutinize the President's nominees carefully. That is what we have been doing. This is not a numbers game. We have to look at these people very carefully. They are nominated and, if confirmed, are confirmed for lifetime positions. Some people say the closest thing to God put in this life is being put on the Federal bench, because nobody can criticize you under those circumstances once you make it there. So this particular nomination does demonstrate the need for scrutiny of any President's nominees. 
Unfortunately, I think many in the legal community do not understand the Senate's role in the confirmation process. The Constitution obligates the Senate to advise the President with respect to his choice in nominees and ultimately consent to their appointment. No one has the right to a Senate confirmation anymore than he or she has the right to be nominated by the President. Federal judges serve for what amounts to life terms. They wield enormous power in our society, power that must be exercised fairly and impartially. When the President sends us nominees who lack the necessary qualifications to be elevated to the Federal bench, the Senate's duty is to bring these deficiencies to light. 
In this case, given the bipartisan opposition of law enforcement and the nominee's problematic record, I believe withdrawal of the nominee was appropriate. But let me add, had this nominee come to a vote today, she would have been overwhelmingly defeated by both sides of the aisle. There were many Democrats who were going to vote against Massiah-Jackson, and I think most all Republicans were going to vote against her as well. And there were reasons to do so with regard to this nomination. 
Having said that, let me just say that I was impressed with Massiah-Jackson's family. It is clear that she is a nice woman. It is clear that her husband is a very nice man. Her two children whom she introduced to the committee looked as though they were just outstanding in every way. So I commend her for that, and I hope she has learned from this process that people in Philadelphia expect her to be tough on crime, to be tough on criminals, and to support the law enforcement people when they are right. When they are wrong, she should correct them and she should do so vociferously. 
But some of the things that were done really cast such a cloud over this nomination that we just could not vote for her in the end, so I was pleased that she did the right thing by withdrawing her nomination. I feel badly about it, because I believe her to be a nice person. I believe that she intends to be a very fine judge, and I commend her to work very hard to be that. Being a tough trial judge in Pennsylvania is a very great honor. The fact that she has not received consent to this nomination and this opportunity should not deter her from proving that she could be one of the best trial judges in the State of Pennsylvania if she wants to be. I certainly believe she is intelligent enough to be. My own personal belief is that she is good enough to be. But because of these problems in the past, she is going to have to redeem herself in the eyes of the law enforcement community. 
If Judge Massiah-Jackson takes out vengeance against the law enforcement community and those who have raised these issues, then she will have proven us even more right and she will have proven that the action of withdrawal here today was even more right than I believed it to have been. I hope she will treat all law enforcement officials with the respect that they are due when they appear before her court. I practiced law in Pennsylvania for a number of years and I tried a number of cases in front of the Common Pleas bench in Pittsburgh, and I have to say these are very important judgeships. She still has that judgeship. I wish her the best. I am counting on her doing the very best she can from here on in, and I have counted on her proving that those who have criticized her, though perhaps just at this time, it appears, can have faith in the future because of what she has tried to do.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, this is a letter written to the Honorable William J. Clinton. I am glad to have that in the Record. 
Again, I express my sorrow that it had to end this way, and I wish the very best to Judge Frederica Massiah-Jackson. I hope she will take this in a way that will be instructive, informative and, hopefully, helpful to her if she continues to serve on the highest trial court in the State of Pennsylvania, the Court of Common Pleas. I hope she will benefit from this experience instead of it being a detriment to her. If she will treat law enforcement officials fairly, if she will be tough on crime when it is clearly shown, and if she will be totally honest in her dealings on that bench, I have great belief that she will yet serve in many, many good ways the people of Pennsylvania. 
I wish her the best. I wish her family the best. And I, again, am sorry this has turned out this way, but I think it is the way it had to turn out under the circumstances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield the floor. 
Mr. SESSIONS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980313</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, I rise today, on behalf of myself and a number of my colleagues--Senators Campbell, McCain, Abraham, Domenici, Grassley, and Hutchison--to introduce a bill to grant a federal charter to the American GI Forum a National Veterans Family Organization. 
The American GI Forum, a nonprofit Section 501(c)(4) corporation, was founded on March 26, 1948, in Corpus Christi, Texas by the late Dr. Hector P. Garcia, a medical doctor who was an Army veteran of World War II, and other visionary Mexican American veterans. This year, 1998, the American GI Forum will celebrate its 50th Year of service to our Nation's veterans and their families. Then, as now, the American GI Forum is dedicated to addressing issues affecting Hispanic veterans and their families. 
As the American GI Forum enters its 50th Year, we believe it is fitting to secure passage of this important legislation which would recognize and grant the American GI Forum a federal charter. A federal charter is an honorary recognition that does not convey any special status or authority. However, within the veterans community a federal charter is deemed to be recognition of a national veterans organization's commitment and service to our nation's veterans. Also, other entities sometimes distinguish between Veterans Service Organizations which are congressionally-chartered and those which are not. For example, the web page of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs separately lists `Congressionally-Chartered Veterans Service Organizations' and `Other Veterans Service organizations and Military Associations' (http://www.house.gov/va/vetlinks.htm). 
A congressional charter would prove an appropriate tribute to the selfless sacrifices and tireless work of their beloved Founder, Dr. Garcia, and the countless Hispanic Americans who have answered and continue to answer America's call to fight for and defend the freedom of all Americans. Having earned the highest number of medals of honor per capita, Hispanic Americans have a distinguished record of valor and patriotism. 
Today, the American GI Forum has more than 500 chapters in the United States and Puerto Rico. Though predominately Hispanic, the AGIF is open to all veterans and their families. The organization is comprised of three elements--the Veterans Forum, the Women's Forum, and the Youth Forum. On a local level, American GI Forum chapters function under a regional and/or a state structure. The elected officers of each state organization serve as members of the National Board of Directors. The National Commander and other National officers are elected at our National Convention and are also members of the National Board of Directors. 
The patriotism of this community, and their willingness to make daily sacrifices and even the ultimate sacrifice to preserve the freedoms we all enjoy is inspiring, and deserves our support, recognition and gratitude. On behalf of my colleagues and myself, I urge you to join us in sponsoring this legislation to grant a federal charter to this deserving organization.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I just want to take a moment to express appreciation to the Environment and Public Works Committee members, particularly Senators Chafee, Baucus, and Warner, for the yeoman's effort they have made to get this bill to the floor and ultimately passed by the United States Senate. 
Developing a measure this complex, with so many competing interests, isn't easy. Believe me, I've been there, done that. My hat is off to my colleagues who have succeeded in guiding this well-balanced package this far through the legislative process. 
My colleagues on the Environment and Public Works Committee have had a difficult row to hoe in even bringing this measure to the floor a few weeks ago. In fact, I seem to recall hearing that the joke around the EPW Committee was that ISTEA was a six year reauthorization, not a six year reauthorization process. 
Additionally, I commend our determined and highly effective Majority Leader. Without the direct influence of Senator Lott, we would not have gotten a bipartisan agreement on the committee's amendment to ISTEA which provides for additional funding for highway projects. And without his statesmanlike intervention last fall, we would not have had the six-month extension that was so critical to Utah and, I'm sure, to other states as well. 
Along with my junior colleague from Utah, Senator Bennett, I communicated my concerns about the effect that a delay on the ISTEA reauthorization would have on my state of Utah to the Majority Leader, and I appreciate the fact that he moved quickly on this legislation once the Senate returned from the recent recess. 
I commend as well, Senators Domenici, Byrd and Gramm for their efforts in ensuring that our nation's vital transportation infrastructure needs are met in a responsible manner which does not violate the balanced budget agreement. 
I enthusiastically support final passage of ISTEA. Here's why. 
Utah faces a number of transportation challenges. The most critical is the reconstruction of the I-15 corridor. Designed in the 1960s, with a life span of 20 years, the seventeen mile I-15 corridor enters its third decade with certain areas close to collapse. 
In photos I have observed which detail the level of disintegration to the highway and bridge structure along I-15, I could actually see the sky breaking through holes in the infrastructure. 
It has also been reported that employees who park underneath some of the I-15 bridge structures had to sign safety waivers! Before construction began, a dozen of the bridges along I-15 posed direct safety threats. 
Additionally, despite an earthquake fault line along the Wasatch front, none of I-15's bridges met modern earthquake standards. 
The I-15 corridor reconstruction project is vital to the economic growth of our nation, the safety of the traveling public, and presents a unique opportunity to study the effects of an innovative `Design/Build' approach to highway construction. 
The I-15 project is the largest `Design/Build' project ever undertaken in the 
United States. As my colleagues know, the `Design/Build' process is the cost and time savings process of having the same contracting team that designs the project actually build the project. 
In Utah, it is estimated that this approach will save half a billion dollars and cut construction time in half. The I-15 project will provide vital data to transportation policy makers, engineers, and state and federal departments of transportation as more states opt to use the `Design/Build' approach. 
In addition to the challenges associated with the I-15 corridor project, Utah is a fast growing state that must make substantial improvements to accommodate not only its own rapid growth but also interstate commerce. 
And, although some colleagues may think of Utah as being an essentially rural state with wide open spaces, Utahns face rush hour traffic gridlock that rivals the Washington Beltway. 
The rate of population growth in Utah currently exceeds the national average by two to three times. Over the next two decades, the population in the Salt Lake Valley alone is expected to escalate to 1.3 million people, a 66% increase. 
The area south of Salt Lake is becoming known as the new `Silicon Valley,' home to Novell and other high tech employers. North of Salt Lake, the population of Davis and Weber Counties are expected to grow 55% and 37%, respectively. All together, the 100-mile corridor along the Wasatch Front will exceed 2 million by 2015. 
Travel in the Salt Lake Area is projected to grow significantly over the next 20 years. Total trips will grow by 57%, from 7.25 million trip-ends per day to 11.4 million in 2015. 
Vehicle-Miles Traveled (VMT) will grow even faster, from current level of 21 million to 34 million in 2015 or 62%. 
Our dependence on mass transit is also increasing. Total daily transit ridership will be 128,000 by 2010--an increase of 103% over 1993. 
All of this would be enough for Utahns to support prompt passage of the ISTEA reauthorization. But, in addition, Utah faces an important deadline for completion of key transportation projects. That deadline, of course, is the 2002 Winter Olympics, which Salt Lake City will host on behalf of all Americans. 
During the 2002 Olympic Winter Games, more than 2 million tickets will be issued to 179 events, which will be spread over five city and five mountain venues, each within a 55 minute drive of the Olympic Village. 
It goes without saying that the efficient--not to mention safe--transportation of athletes, their families and coaches, American and foreign press, volunteers and visitors from one place to another is crucial. And, we can't postpone critical construction and improvements. In Utah's climate, we have basically four construction seasons remaining to meet this deadline, and some of our road projects are necessarily going to have to be front-loaded into this time frame. 
I know that I felt a sense of pride when the Olympic flag passed from Japan to the United States at the closing ceremonies in Nagano. Perhaps my colleagues noticed the banner carried by our U.S. athletes into the arena that said: `Thank you, Nagano! See you in Salt Lake!' You don't have to be a Utahn to want to show off our country. 
I am confident that the bill before us provides the funding and the mechanism for Utah to meet its own transportation needs as well as to fulfill its obligation to our country as host of this prestigious international event. 
Again, I want to commend and thank my colleagues for their fine work on this legislation. I am pleased to vote for final passage of S. 1173.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. 
Over thirty years ago, the U.S. Senate passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It was historic legislation, and its supporters showed great moral courage in seeing it through. 
The principle underlying that Act was equal treatment: The federal government should treat all persons equally, regardless of their race, color, national origin or sex. Indeed, it should mandate equal treatment from employers, labor unions, providers of public accommodation as well as many others. 
Now, Contrary to popular mythology, however, the Senate was not ahead of the moral curve when it passed the 1964 Act. Polls taken at the time show that a majority of Americans supported the legislation. Indeed, they continue to support it. They know that its principle is fundamental. The United States government has no business making distinctions based on skin color or sex. Period. 
But there were many vocal opponents too. It is important to give credit to the members of the Senate who resisted those opponents by passing the legislation. 
Somewhere over the course of the last generation, the federal government started to fall away from the 1964 Act's fundamental principle. In the name of `affirmative action,' is substituted a policy of preference based on race and sex for the policy of equal treatment. 
And that is why the term `affirmative action' sometimes has a bad connotation. The fact is, affirmative action calls for outreach, job training, education--those type of things I think everybody is for, and certainly I am for. 
I have no doubt that the supporters of preferences were--and still are--well meaning. They wanted to do something about this country's very real history of racial and gender inequity. But the policy they created stood the color- and gender-blind principle of the 1964 Civil Rights Act on its head. 
I believe that it was a serious error to compromise one of our most fundamental principles. Despite assurances from preference supporters that these programs will be only temporary--lasting for a few years at most--preference programs now permeate the Federal Government. Rather than withering away, they are showing a remarkable tendency to expand. New programs are added. New groups demand to be included. Under one program, preferences are now available to no less than forty ethnic groups. 
Each time such an expansion occurs, we become less like the color- and gender-blind country that we aspire to be and more like those countries where an ethnic spoils system has been a way of life for centuries. 
Who would have thought it would be so difficult for the Federal Government to reclaim the moral high ground? The public has never supported preferences. They have been demanding a return to equal treatment since preferences were first implemented. But the Federal Government's decision to compromise its principles has proven to be habit forming. Despite the public's support for a return to equal treatment, many of our Nation's leaders have refused to stand up for principle. 
Even the most indefensible programs are tough to eliminate. ISTEA mandates that `not less than 10 percent' of Federal highways and transit funds be allocated to `disadvantaged business enterprises,' which firms owned by designated minority groups are presumed to be. It is a set-aside, pure and simple. 
Now, I might add here that these so-called disadvantaged business enterprises need not be actually disadvantaged. Minority business owners who qualify for this program need not be poor or even middle class. The secret about this program is that, like many racial and gender preference programs, its beneficiaries are quite often wealthy. It is worse than no help for those--of all races and ethnicities--who could really use a helping hand. Such programs lull the good people of this Nation into believing that something's being done when in fact little or nothing is being done to help out those who really need the help. 
If any set-aside program ought to be eliminated, this should be the one. It is the very same program confronted by the Supreme Court in the 1995 landmark case, Adarand Constructors v. Pena. At that time, the Court laid down a standard of strict scrutiny for this program and others like it. Under such a 
standard, the program is unconstitutional unless the federal government can demonstrate a compelling purpose and has offered a solution that is narrowly tailored to serve that purpose. It's a tough standard meet, but it's the standard our Constitution demands. 
Last year, on remand, the District Court in Colorado applied the strict scrutiny standard and found this program to be wanting. The Court therefore held the program to be unconstitutional. That was after the Supreme Court had remanded it to the court to determine whether it deserved to see the light of day and the District court of Colorado in applying the scrutiny standard found this program to be unconstitutional. 
That decision was no fluke. Since the Supreme Court's decision in Adarand, set aside programs have been consistently found to be unconstitutional by the federal courts. Yet, the bill being considered by the Senate blithely reauthorizes the program. In doing so, it ignores our responsibility to bring the program into compliance with the Constitution. That is a responsibility we cannot shirk. 
The United States Senate is now seriously behind the moral curve on this issue. The public supports a return to principle. The courts are demanding it. The proposed amendment can do that. It eliminates set-asides based on race and sex and substitutes a non-discriminatory program of assistance for `emerging business enterprises,' something that most of us can agree on. It will help put us back on the right road. I urge you to support it. 
Now, if you want the litany of the forty ethnic groups, here it is: African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans--including American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts and Native Hawaiians), Asian-Pacific Americans--including persons from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Korea, the Phillipines, the Republic of Palau, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, and Nauru, and Subcontinent Asian Americans--including persons from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldive Islands and Nepal. 
Just think about that. What we are doing is creating all kinds of special interest groups who are vying for these programs and, in the end, the wealthy are getting them anyway. But if we have the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Kentucky, we will be providing an opportunity for those truly emerging businesses that are disadvantaged. 
To me, I see a tremendous difference between the language in the bill and the language proposed by the Senator from Kentucky, and I think the language proposed by the Senator from Kentucky is constitutional, where the language in the bill is unconstitutional. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. McCONNELL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator will yield, let me just say that we are going after all of these preferential programs. This is the first of the 160. We may have to do them one by one, because it is very difficult to even get an all-embracing bill up. But whether we go after them one by one or en bloc, it is important that we go after them. If we allow them to go on, we will be violating one of the basic principles of the Constitution--that is, treating people equally. We will be violating the actual, legitimate, straightforward language of the Constitution and the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which provide equal opportunity for all, not for a select few. 
Now, with regard to this particular bill, I want to compliment my dear friend from Rhode Island and my friend from Montana, the two distinguished Senators, because they have carried what is a very difficult bill all the way to this position. I am not here to give them a rough time, but I do think that it's time that we do something about these unconstitutional set-asides and preferences. Whether we do it individually, each of the 160 programs, or whether we do it en bloc, it's time to try and set the record straight with regard to how these funds should be used. 
Now, if the distinguished Senator from Kentucky were asking to prevent disadvantaged businesses from benefiting from these funds, I probably would part company with him. But he has a specific provision in here that would help emerging new business enterprises that otherwise might have difficulty competing to obtain some of this money. I heard one of our colleagues talk about various companies--I think it was the Senator from Minnesota--he talked about companies owned by minorities and women who literally deserve a right to compete because they are very competent and very good. Well, if they are very competent and good and they can compete, then they ought to compete for this work on the same terms and conditions as anybody else. 
We should not be opening up a loophole here where companies that are very capable of competing have an absolute set-aside so they don't have to compete. I think that is what the Senator from Kentucky is doing. As far as I am concerned, I think we ought to go after these programs and straighten them out so they are not lacking in constitutionality--one at a time, or 10 at a time, or 160 at a time. Ultimately, I think we will probably vote on a full en bloc amendment. Until then, let's make these bills as constitutional as we can. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill that will help provide for greater consumer choice and competition in television services, the Copyright Compulsory License Improvement Act of 1998. Joining me in introducing this bill are my colleagues Senators Leahy and Kohl. 
The options consumers have for viewing television entertainment have vastly increased since that fateful day in September 1927 when television inventor and Utah native Philo T. Farnsworth, together with his wife and colleagues, viewed the first television transmission in the Farnsworth's home workshop: a single black line rotated from vertical to horizontal. Both the forms of entertainment and the technologies for delivering that entertainment have proliferated over the 70 years since that day. In the 1940s and 50s, televisions began arriving in an increasing number of homes to pick up entertainment being broadcast into a growing number of cities and towns. 
In the late 60s and early 70s, cable television began offering communities more television choices by initially providing community antenna system of receiving broadcast television signals, and later by offering new created-for-cable entertainment. The development of cable television made dramatic strides with the enactment of the cable compulsory license in 1976, providing an efficient way of clearing copyright rights for the retransmission of broadcast signals over cable systems. 
In the 1980s, television viewers began to be able to receive television entertainment with their own home satellite equipment, and the enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Act in 1988 helped develop a system of providing options for television service to Americans who lived in areas too remote to receive television signals over the air or via cable. 
Much has changed since the original Satellite Home Viewer Act was adopted in 1988. The Satellite Home Viewer Act was originally intended to ensure that households that could not get television in any other way, traditionally provided through broadcast or cable, would be able to get television signals via satellite. The market and the satellite industry has changed substantially since 1988. Many of the difficulties and controversies associated with the satellite license have been at least partly a product of the satellite business attempting to move from a predominately need-based rural niche service to a full service video delivery competitor in all markets, urban and rural. 
Now, many market advocates both in and out of Congress are looking to satellite carriers to compete directly with cable companies for viewership, because we believe that an increasingly competitive market is better for consumers both in terms of cost and the diversity of programming available. The bill I introduce today will move us toward that kind of robust competition. 
The bill I introduce today is focused on changes that we can make this year to move the satellite television industry to the next level, making it a full competitor in the multi-channel video delivery market. It has been said time and again that a major, and perhaps the biggest, impediment to satellite's ability to be a strong competitor to cable is its current inability to provide local broadcast signals. (See, e.g., Business Week (22 Dec. 1997) p. 84.) This problem has been partly technological and partly legal. Today, with this bill, we hope to begin removing the legal impediments to use of the emerging technology that will make local retransmission of broadcast signals a reality. 
This is a forward-looking bill which will create an incentive for companies to develop the means by which to provide local programming to local markets over satellite systems. In the next few years, if we make these legal changes, the satellite industry should be able to offer television viewers their own local programming of news, weather, sports, and entertainment, with digital quality picture and sound. This will mean that viewers in the remoter areas of my large home state of Utah will be able to watch television programming originating in Salt Lake City, rather than New York or California. Utahns in remote areas will have access to local weather and other locally and regionally relevant information. And, most important to all the constituents of my colleagues is that they will finally have a choice for full service multi-channel video programming: They will be able to choose cable or one of a number of satellite carriers. This should foster an environment of proliferating choice and lowered prices, all to the benefit of consumers, our constituents. 
To that end, the `Copyright Compulsory License Improvement Act' makes the following changes to the Satellite Home Viewers Act: 
It makes the satellite compulsory license permanent, just like the cable compulsory license. Under the current law the satellite license will sunset next year. 
It allows satellite carriers to retransmit a local television station to households within that station's local market, just like cable does, and sets a zero copyright rate for providing this service. 
It allows consumers to switch from cable to satellite service for network signals without the waiting period now required in the law. 
It reforms the current structure of the administrative body which determines rates and distributions applicable to all copyright compulsory licenses to make it more efficient and less expensive for the parties, as well as more technically expert. 
It creates substantial regulatory parity between the industries, including must-carry rules, retransmission consent requirements, network non-duplication, syndicated exclusivity, and sports blackout restrictions. These regulations will be phased in over a period of time in which the Federal Communications Commission can carefully consider and tailor their implementation. During that time, the portions of the satellite compulsory license which determine who is eligible to receive network and superstation signals from satellite carriers will continue to apply as they do now. 
Mr. President, this is a forward-looking bill that establishes the environment in which there can be more vigorous and fair competition in the video delivery market. But it is constructed to be practical in the realm of achievable legislation. Let me make clear that this bill is carefully balanced to ensure competition. It will do much to put the satellite industry on a more equal footing with its competitors and other market actors, both in terms of its benefits and responsibilities. 
Mr. President, let me briefly mention an issue that I think is important to touch on briefly at introduction. I am aware that there is currently controversy and even litigation over some issues relating to compliance with restrictions in the law as it is now written regarding satellite carriers providing network service. Let me make it clear that the introduction of this bill is but the beginning of a process. I would hope that this beginning is not interpreted by anyone as a license to disregard the law as it is now constituted in hopes of any future changes in the law. Our debates and discussions need to be fair and frank, and that process is not helped by abuse or disregard for current law. I would expect full compliance with and application of current law regarding the restrictions on eligibility for distant network signals or any other provisions in current law until such time as changes in the law are actually made. 
Having said that, I welcome and urge my colleagues and all interested parties to join in a constructive discussion of this very important legislation. I recognize that we may be able improve this bill before final passage, but I believe the essential balance of this bill is necessary to making it achievable now. I commend it to my colleagues for their consideration and look forward to working with them to help hasten more vigorous competition in the television delivery market and the ever-widening consumer choice that will follow it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to welcome to the United States Dr. Kamil Idris, the Director General of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). As many of my colleagues know, Dr. Idris was elected Director General in November 1997, succeeding Dr. Arpad Bogsch, who served in that capacity for 25 years. As Director General, Dr. Idris is responsible for overseeing WIPO's strong efforts in promoting intellectual property protection across the globe. 
Dr. Idris has had a long and distinguished diplomatic career on behalf of his native Sudan. He is particularly well-known in international intellectual property circles through his 16 years of effective service to WIPO, most recently as Deputy Director General. I was pleased to visit with Dr. Idris informally shortly after his election as Director General and once again wish him success in his new position. 
I would note that Dr. Idris is taking the helm of WIPO at a critical juncture in the evolution of international intellectual property protection. Nations throughout the world will look to his leadership in promoting a global fabric of intellectual property protection in the ever-explosive digital age. The WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty, both signed in Geneva in December 1996, are important components of that fabric. The United States has an opportunity to set standards for the world to follow by ratifying and implementing these treaties in a timely fashion. I have joined with my colleagues Senator Leahy, Senator Thompson, and Senator Kohl to introduce legislation to do just that. I look forward to Dr. Idris' support of similar efforts to implement these treaties in an effective manner in the remainder of the WIPO member countries. 
Dr. Idris' visit today marks his first official visit to the United States. He will be accompanied by the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, Bruce Lehman, who will join Dr. Idris in meetings with the Secretary of Commerce and other agency officials who play important roles in safeguarding and promoting American ingenuity. Dr. Idris will also have the opportunity to meet with many of the leaders of our creative sectors, among them the pharmaceutical, motion picture, software, information technology, broadcasting, publishing, and recording industries. Each of these industries depend on the work of WIPO to assist them in securing effective protection for their intellectual property in the international marketplace. 
I am pleased that Dr. Idris has made this important visit. I am sure I am joined by my colleagues in welcoming him today and in wishing him the best in his activities here. I look forward to continuing to work with him in a close and cooperative relationship.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, my good friend and colleague Mr. Coble, the Chairman of the House Judiciary Intellectual Property Subcommittee introduced in the House today the Copyright Compulsory License Improvement Act. I had intended to introduce similar legislation in the Senate today, but have decided to allow some of my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee time to review this important legislation and join me in presenting legislation to the Senate. 
Let me first thank Mr. Coble for his leadership in this area. He and his staff have worked tirelessly to develop the bill he introduced today. It is legislation that will set the stage for increased competition in the multi-channel video delivery market, and that means greater viewer choice in getting television. It is always a pleasure to work with Chairman Coble, and I look forward to working with him as we perfect this legislation and move it to enactment. I have also worked with the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Leahy, who has provided valuable input into the Senate legislation. 
I must also acknowledge the input of the Register of Copyrights and Copyright Office staff. They worked along with congressional staff in creating this legislation. 
Let me say that I believe the legislation that Chairman Coble and I have worked on effectively balances the various interests affected by the legislation. While I look forward to perfecting the legislation, I expect it to undergo revision as it moves through the process, I believe that the essential balance must be maintained for this legislation to move this year. And it is important that we enact legislation this year allowing satellite carriers to provide local carriage of broadcast signals within a broadcaster's local market. No reform is more important to making satellite competitive with cable for the long term. I believe the other reforms also set the stage for vigorous competition between satellite and cable, with adequate protections for the other interested parties whose works are delivered by them to viewers, which should result in lower prices and increased choices for viewers. This is important legislation for all of our constituents, but particularly for those in states with rural or mountainous areas such as my home state of Utah. I hope my colleagues will help work to enact these reforms this year so that the next generation of satellite television delivery can become a reality in the very near future. 
I welcome input from all interested parties and my colleagues. And I look forward to introducing a companion to Mr. Coble's bill when we return from our President's Day recess. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to offer some comments on the cloning legislation that we are now debating. 
I think that this has been an important debate, one which should continue. It is a debate that involves many difficult, troublesome issues. I come to this debate as a concerned pro-life Senator, who also has profound questions about the scientific implications of this bill. 
I can tell you that scientists from my home state of Utah are following these discussions very closely. 
I am proud that researchers at the University of Utah and the Huntsman Cancer Center are at the cutting edge of science. It was scientists at Myriad Genetics of Salt Lake City who were co-discoverers of a gene--the BRCA 1 gene--that causes some types of breast cancer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I agree with Dr. White that we should try to find a way to ban cloning of human beings but do so in a way that allows, to the extent ethically proper, valuable research to continue. 
In these type of debates many of us value the opinion of my good friend and colleague from Tennessee, Senator Frist. As a physician he brings a unique perspective to issues of science and medicine. He is also a co-sponsor of S. 1601, the bill pending before this body. 
Let me also share with you a letter I sent to Senator Frist on this bill. It is a short letter which I ask unanimous consent to insert in the Record at this point: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think that these are some of the important questions and the type of questions on which we need to have consensus before we enact legislation: 
-- What are the current capabilities of cloning, in animals and humans? Should we be focusing on banning a technology, or technologies, or the results of a technology. 
-- What should be the status of the asexually-produced totipotent cells? What is the correct definition of an embryo? For example, is it the definition used in the Report of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission--that it is `the developing organism from the time of fertilization until significant differentiation has occurred, when the organism becomes known as a fetus'? Would that definition preclude human somatic cell transfer technology? 
-- What current authority does the government have with respect to techniques which might lead to cloning human beings and human tissue? 
-- Although there is virtual unanimity that cloning of human beings should be banned at this time, what is the appropriate type of penalty for any attempt at such an act? Should it be a criminal penalty? If so, what type? Are the criminal penalties instituted in S. 1601 the appropriate means of preventing cloned humans? 
-- How does the language of this bill affect the ability to do further research on whether banning somatic cell nuclear transfer technology would affect the ability of a woman with unviable eggs to conceive children? 
-- Precisely what types of research could--and could not--be conducted under this bill? 
These are important issues that deserve our full attention. 
All of us have family, friends and loved ones afflicted by some terrible disease. 
When we think about this bill we need to think about people like Nancy and Ronald Reagan as they battle against Alzheimers. 
We need to think about Mohammed Ali's battle against Parkinsons. 
We need to be sure that in locking off human cloning that we don't do so in a way that throws away the key to many other diseases. 
Over the past few days, we have heard very compelling, heartfelt debate about this issue. 
Some have expressed the belief that asexually-produced totipotent cells are, in fact, an embryo, fully deserving of the protections we accord to a human life. 
Others have averred that these cells are not yet a human embryo, but rather should be viewed as a very promising tool which science should be allowed to explore as we continue our quest to cure such devastating diseases as diabetes, cancer and AIDS. 
Both sides hold very strong moral convictions. There are extremely important implications for both. 
This body must explore these fundamental questions. We must consider the views of our scientific experts, ethicists, religious leaders, ethicists, and men and women of medicine. 
Let me also add I am very troubled that this bill should have been considered in Committee where many of the fundamental issues we have been debating can be explored in more depth, especially since S. 1601 amends Title 18 of the U.S. Code. 
This is obviously an important debate, one which must be continued, and therefore I will vote `yes' on the motion to invoke cloture. 
As we attempt to advance the public health, we must do so in a way that protects human life. I think we must work to craft legislation that achieves both of these goals.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to support the nomination of Margaret Morrow to the Federal District bench in California. 
Ms. Morrow enjoys broad bipartisan support, and it is no wonder. She graduated magna cum laude from Bryn Mawr College, and cum laude from the Harvard Law School. She is presently a partner at Arnold and Porter in their Los Angeles office where she handles virtually all of that office's appellate litigation. 
I plan to outline in greater detail why I intend to support Ms. Morrow's nomination. But first I would like to discuss the Judiciary Committee's record with respect to the confirmation of President Clinton's judicial nominees. 
As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, one of the most important duties I fulfill is in screening judicial nominees. Indeed, the Constitution itself obligates the Senate to provide the President advice concerning his nominees, and to consent to their ultimate confirmation. Although some have complained about the pace at which the committee has moved on judicial nominees, I note that it has undertaken its duty in a deliberate and serious fashion. Indeed, with respect to Ms. Morrow, there were concerns. Her answers to the committee were not entirely responsive. Rather than simply pushing the nomination forward, however, I believed it was important for the committee to ensure that its questions were properly answered. Thus, the committee submitted written questions for Ms. Morrow to clarify some of her additional responses. And, having reviewed Ms. Morrow's answers to the questions posed by the committee, I became satisfied that she would uphold the Constitution and abide by the rule of law. 
In fact, we held two hearings in Margaret Morrow's case, as I recall, and the second hearing was, of course, to clarify some of these issues without which we might not have had Ms. Morrow's nomination up even to this day. 
Thus, I think it fair to say that the committee has fairly and responsibly dealt with the President's nominees. Indeed, the Judiciary Committee has already held a judicial confirmation hearing, and has another planned for February 25. Thus, the committee will have held two nomination hearings in the first month of the session. 
I note that Judiciary Committee processed 47 of the President's nominees last session, including Ms. Morrow. Today there are more sitting judges than there were throughout virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations. Currently, there are 756 active Federal judges. In addition, there are 432 senior Federal judges who must by law continue to hear cases. Even in the ninth circuit, which has 10 vacancies, only one judge has actually stopped hearing cases. The others have taken senior status, and are still actively participating in that court's work. I am saying that the other nine judges have taken senior status. Those who have retired, or those who have taken senior status, are still hearing cases. The total pool of Federal judges available to hear cases is 1,188, a near record number. 
I have sought to steer the confirmation process in a way that kept it a fair and a principled one, and exercised what I felt was the appropriate degree of deference to the President's judicial appointees. 
I would like to personally express my gratitude and compliments to Senator Leahy, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, for his cooperative efforts this past year. 
In fact, I would like my colleagues to note that a portrait of Senator Leahy will be unveiled this very evening in the Agriculture Committee hearing room. This is an honor that I believe my distinguished colleague justly deserves for his efforts on that great committee. I want Senator Leahy to know that I plan on attending that portrait unveiling itself even though this debate is taking place on the floor between 4 and 6 today. 
It is in this spirit of cooperation and fairness that I will vote to confirm Ms. Morrow. Conducting a fair confirmation process, however, does not mean granting the President carte blanche in filling judicial vacancies. It means assuring that those who are confirmed will uphold the Constitution and abide by the rule of law. 
Based upon the committee's review of her record, I believe that the evidence demonstrates that Margaret Morrow will be such a person. Ms. Morrow likely would not be my choice if I were sitting in the Oval Office. But the President is sitting there, and he has seen fit to nominate her. 
She has the support of the Senators from California. And the review conducted by the Judiciary Committee suggests that she understands the proper role of a judge in our Federal system and will abide by the rule of law. There is no doubt that Ms. Morrow is, in terms of her professional experience and abilities, qualified to serve as a Federal district court judge. I think the only question that may be plaguing some of my colleagues is whether she will abide by the rule of law. As I have stated elsewhere, nominees who are or who are likely to be judicial activists are not qualified to serve as Federal judges, and they should neither be nominated nor confirmed. And I want my colleagues to know that when such individuals come before the Judiciary Committee I will vociferously oppose them. In fact, many of the people that have been suggested by the administration have been stopped before they have been sent up. And that is where most of the battles occur, and that is where most of the work between the White House and myself really occurs. I have to compliment the White House in recognizing that some people that they wish they could have put on the bench were not appropriate persons to put on the bench because of their attitudes towards the rule of law primarily. 
While I initially had some concerns that Ms. Morrow might be an activist, I have concluded, based on all the information before the committee, that a compelling case cannot be made against her. While it is often difficult to tell whether a nominee's words before confirmation will match that nominee's deeds after confirmation, I believe that this nominee in particular deserves the benefit of the doubt. And all nominees deserve the benefit of the doubt, unless the contrary is substantial--or, should I say, less evidence to the contrary is substantial. In my view, there is not sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Ms. Morrow will engage in judicial activism. In fact, Ms. Morrow has assured the committee that she will abide by the rule of law, and will not substitute her preferences for the dictates of the Constitution. 
If Ms. Morrow is a woman of her word, and I believe she is, I am confident that she will serve the country with distinction. 
I would like briefly to address some of the questions raised by those who oppose Ms. Morrow's nomination. Perhaps the most troubling evidence of potential activism that Ms. Morrow's critics advance comes from several speeches she has given while president of the Los Angeles, CA, Bar Association. At the fourth annual Conference on Women in the Law, for example, Ms. Morrow gave a speech in which she stated that `the law is almost by definition on the cutting edge of social thought. It is a vehicle through which we ease the transition from the rules which have always been to the rules which are to be.' 
Now, if Ms. Morrow was speaking here about `the law' and `rules' in a substantive sense, I would have no choice but to read these statements as professing a belief in judicial activism. On that basis alone, I would likely have opposed her nomination. However, Ms. Morrow repeatedly and somewhat animatedly testified before the committee that she was not speaking substantively of the law itself but, rather, was referring to the legal profession and the rules by which it governs itself. 
When the committee went back and examined the context of Ms. Morrow's speech, it concluded that this explanation was in keeping with the theme of her speech. 
In her inaugural address as president of the State Bar of California on October 9, 1993, Ms. Morrow quoted then Justice William Brennan, stating that `Justice can only endure and flourish if law and legal institutions are engines of change able to accommodate evolving patterns of life and social interaction.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 10 minutes to the distinguished Senator from California. 
If my colleague would prefer to control the time on his side, I would be happy--should I yield to the Senator? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let's split the time. You control half the time, and I will control half. You can make the determination, or if you would like---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as we close this debate, I would like to take just a moment to reiterate my support for Margaret Morrow. As my friend from Missouri, Senator Ashcroft, has conceded, Ms. Morrow certainly enjoys the professional qualifications to serve as a United States district court judge. 
Unfortunately, those who have chosen to vote against Ms. Morrow have failed to identify a single instance in the nominee's legal practice in which she has engaged in what can be considered as activism. The best the opponents to Ms. Morrow can do is take quotes from several of her speeches and read into that an activist intent. I do not believe, however, that when closely analyzed, those claims stand up. Regarding the two brief statements being used to question Ms. Morrow's propensity to engage in judicial activism, when balanced against the 20-plus-year distinguished and dedicated career, the statements are simply insufficient to determine that Ms. Morrow would be a judicial activist. 
The first statement attributed to Ms. Morrow that the `law is on the cutting edge of social thought,' when placed within its proper context and read along with the entire speech is not troubling to me. I note that the opposition did not discuss the text of that speech or the theme of the speech, because the speech itself is not controversial in any manner. In fact, the theme of the speech advocates change in the legal profession itself. The speech does not advocate judicial activism. This is why no one has mentioned any other sentence or phrase from the speech. It simply does not advocate activism. 
The second statement attributed to Ms. Morrow, that the law and legal institutions are engines of change, was taken from a quote by Mr. Justice Brennan. Whether you agree with Mr. Justice Brennan or not, he was one of the most substantial Justices in history. And she was quoting him. Again, the opposition has not mentioned the theme of the speech from which this quote was taken. The speech also advocated change in the legal profession, not activism in the courts. 
I personally believe that the profession could stand some changes in certain areas. It is not fair to this nominee or any other that her entire career and judicial philosophy be judged on the basis of a few statements, arguably very ambiguous statements. I cannot ignore the overall theme of the speeches from which these statements were taken. The speeches in no way advocated activism. They only advocated change in the legal profession. 
Ms. Morrow's legal career speaks for itself. She will be an asset to the Federal bench, in my opinion. Thus, when Ms. Morrow's statements are read in context, they do not paint a picture of a potential activist. Moreover, when asked by the members of the committee to explain her judicial philosophy and her approach to judging, she gave an answer with which any strict constructionist would agree. And when asked to explain whether her speeches were intended to suggest that judges should be litigating from the bench, she adamantly denied such a claim. 
Given her plausible explanation of these statements criticized by my good friends from the Judiciary Committee and her sworn testimony that she would uphold the Constitution and abide by the rule of law, I have to give her the benefit of the doubt and will vote to confirm her. I think and I hope my colleagues will do the same. 
Ordinarily, I believe that a nominee's testimony should be credited unless there is overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Here, those who oppose this nominee lack such evidence. What they are left with are snippets from some of her speeches, speeches that we are trying to divine the intent of, while lacking the evidence to think otherwise. 
I will credit the testimony of the nominee and her stated commitment to the rule of law. I sincerely hope that she will not disappoint me, and I believe that she is a person of integrity and one who will judge, as she has promised, in accordance with the highest standards of the judgeship profession and with the highest standards of the Constitution and the rule of law. 
On this basis, I support the nominee. I believe we all should support this nominee. She has had a thorough hearing and we have had many, many discussions of this. But I just don't think we should take things out of context and stop a nominee on that basis. 
With that, I hope our colleagues will support the nominee. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the nomination was confirmed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to executive session to consider the nomination of Frederica Massiah-Jackson. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me also note for the record, there is no objection on the part of the minority, at least I have been informed there is no objection, to proceeding with this debate at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to express my strong concerns with respect to President Clinton's nominee to be a U.S. district court judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania--Judge Frederica Massiah-Jackson. I voted for this nominee in committee, but on the basis of information that has been presented to the committee since Judge Massiah-Jackson's hearing, I now have serious reservations about her nomination. 
Judge Massiah-Jackson, who currently serves as a State court trial judge in Philadelphia, was nominated by President Clinton on July 31, 1997, to serve in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The Judiciary Committee received her completed paperwork on August 15 and began processing her nomination around mid-September. The committee began, in bipartisan fashion, to review what available information there was on her background, her qualifications, and her experience. 
The committee's assessment of that information was directed from the outset to serious allegations that were leveled against Judge Massiah-Jackson. In particular, the committee's bipartisan investigative team followed up on allegations that Judge Massiah-Jackson was biased against law enforcement, that she was unduly lenient in sentencing career criminal offenders, and that she lacks proper judicial temperament, as shown with her use of profanity while sitting on the bench. 
Despite attempts to investigate seriously these allegations, no one was willing to come forward publicly during the initial investigation with specific and credible evidence or information showing a general bias against law enforcement. In fact, Judge Massiah-Jackson, when confronted with this allegation, had denied having such a bias. 
I was particularly troubled by a newspaper account reporting that Judge Massiah-Jackson had identified two undercover officers in open court and warned the spectators to watch out for them. No one, however, came forward to substantiate those charges. 
But the committee's investigation did unearth some very troubling information. Judge Massiah-Jackson herself admitted to using profanity at least once while sitting as a judge--she admitted to cursing at a prosecutor in open court; it was not pleasant, and the profanity was not incidental profanity--but she expressed contrition about that event. Indeed, she promised the committee that, if confirmed, she would act appropriately as a Federal district judge. 
Now, I take charges of intemperance from the bench seriously. Judges, by their very position, must remain above the fray. They must, by their demeanor and comportment, preside with dignity over their courtrooms and set an example for the attorneys and witnesses to follow. Nevertheless, as a former litigator, I know that in the 
rough and tumble world of courtroom advocacy that sometimes things can get a bit out of hand. That at least places such untoward remarks in some kind of context. Judge Massiah-Jackson assured the committee that she would conduct herself in an appropriate manner in the future, and that such mistakes as had occurred were early in her tenure on the bench and that she would never allow that to happen again. 
The committee's investigation also confirmed that Judge Massiah-Jackson's sentences, while not grossly out of line with those imposed by other State judges, were indeed very lenient on average. 
By the time the committee held a hearing on Judge Massiah-Jackson, it was clear to me that she had exercised questionable judgment in a number of cases, that she was softer on crime than I would wish a Federal judge to be, and that there were some serious questions about her ability to preside over a courtroom with the level of decorum that our citizens have the right to expect. 
It was clear to me, in a word, that Judge Massiah-Jackson would never be my nominee to the Federal bench. But the Constitution does not vest judicial appointment authority in the Senate. She is President Clinton's nominee. I have never viewed my advise-and-consent responsibilities as an opportunity to second-guess whoever is the President--so long as he sends us nominees who are well qualified to serve and whose views, while perhaps not my own, reflect a commitment to uphold the Constitution and abide by the rule of law. 
For that reason, I anticipated that the nominee's responses during her hearing would be extremely important to my own vote. To my mind, those responses would determine whether there was reason to expect that Judge Massiah-Jackson could yet be a credit to the Federal bench. 
During her hearing, Judge Massiah-Jackson was questioned extensively about her sentencing record in various cases, she was asked about charges she was antiprosecution, and she was asked to explain the incident in which she had cursed at prosecutors. 
After the hearing, members of the committee posed further questions in writing, to which she responded. 
In a nutshell, Judge Massiah-Jackson again apologized for her use of profanity in the courtroom and she made every effort to persuade us she has the highest respect for law enforcement and for the difficult job that police officers have to do in our country. 
Of particular significance to me, Judge Massiah-Jackson expressly disputed the published press report that indicated she had used her job as a State judge to expose the identities of undercover police officers--in open court, I might add--and to warn the spectators against them. In response to a written question from Senator Thurmond, she flatly denied that such an event had occurred. 
On the faith of those assurances and the assurances of those who knew her and know her, and while reviewing the issue very closely, I voted with a majority of my colleagues to report her nomination favorably out of the committee. 
I am disappointed to say that with the benefit of hindsight, information has emerged since the Judiciary Committee held its hearings on this particular nominee of President Clinton that strongly suggests to me that she was somewhat less than candid with the committee. 
In addition, since the committee's vote, the committee has been virtually deluged with letters from prosecutors and law enforcement agencies in Pennsylvania that document a disturbing pattern of open hostility toward the law enforcement communities. These condemnations have been bipartisan and, in some respects, overwhelming. The Pennsylvania District Attorney's Association, as well as the Philadelphia District Attorney, have come out in opposition to Massiah-Jackson, as have the Pennsylvania Attorney General, the Fraternal Order of Police and the National Association of Police Officers. That is pretty extraordinary. I don't know of any other case where that really has happened, although there may be one or more, even in my experience, but I don't remember any. Moreover, the committee has now received more details about particular rulings by Judge Massiah-Jackson that evidence an inability to deal with law enforcement issues fairly. 
First, let me address Judge Massiah-Jackson's possible lack of candor with the Judiciary Committee. During the committee's bipartisan investigation, Judge Massiah-Jackson was questioned about an article that appeared in the local Philadelphia newspaper in 1988 which stated that she had told spectators in the courtroom to take a good look at the undercover officers who are witnesses in the case and to watch themselves. She was asked whether the circumstances described in the article were true. Judge Massiah-Jackson told committee staff she does not recall the incident, but that she did not understand the concern about `outing' the officers if they had already testified. Thereafter, the committee faxed a copy of the article to Judge Massiah-Jackson and asked her to write a letter and comment about the allegations mentioned within the article. Later, the committee received a letter from the nominee that failed to make mention of the incident with the undercover police officers. 
Later, at her hearing before the committee, Judge Massiah-Jackson was questioned again about her alleged comments about the undercover police officers. Unfortunately, Judge Massiah-Jackson failed to answer the questions directly and instead she indicated that she respected the role of law enforcement officers. 
Dissatisfied by her answers both to the written questions and to the questions at the hearing, Senator Thurmond sent the nominee a follow-up question directly asking her to explain her statement to courtroom spectators to `take a good look at the undercover officers and watch yourselves.' In her written response, the nominee categorically denied ever having made the statement. Her written answer back to the committee was as follows: `I have read the 1988 article and it is inaccurate. I would not and did not make any such statement to the spectators. I have great respect for law enforcement officers who have very difficult jobs and work 
in dangerous situations.' 
In the wake of recent developments, however, committee staff, in a bipartisan investigation, was able to interview the two police officers who were mentioned in the news article. Those officers provided written statements to the committee that refute Judge Massiah-Jackson's representations and corroborate the newspaper story. Both Sergeant Rodriguez and his partner, Detective Terrace Jones, an African American, felt that the judge's statement jeopardized their lives if any of the people in the courtroom were friends, family or associates of persons with whom they might negotiate drug buys in the course of their undercover work. 
Although I was more than willing to credit Judge Massiah-Jackson's denial of the newspaper account, in the face of statements by the two officers and the newspaper story, her denial now appears to be somewhat less credible. 
I would also point out that Judge Massiah-Jackson unequivocally informed the committee during her hearing and during questioning by Senator Specter she had never been reversed on a sentencing issue. This fact was important because of concerns that Judge Massiah-Jackson was particularly bent on leniency in sentencing. In fact, nominees are routinely asked, if they are presently judges, to provide the committee all of the cases on which they were reversed. 
In response to the committee's request, Judge Massiah-Jackson identified 14 cases in which she had been reversed. None involved a sentencing issue. When asked a second time in writing whether there were any other cases in which she was reversed, Judge Massiah-Jackson reported one additional case. Once again, this case did not involve a sentencing issue. 
Since her hearing, however, the committee itself discovered that Judge Massiah-Jackson's statement that she has never been reversed on a sentencing issue is inaccurate. In fact, to date, the committee has found she has been reversed in at least two sentencing cases: Commonwealth v. Easterling and Commonwealth v. Williams. In both cases, Judge Massiah-Jackson imposed a sentence found to be too lenient by the appellate court. 
In Easterling, the defendant pled guilty to burglary and criminal conspiracy. Despite a serious prior criminal history, including nine prior adult property convictions and two adult armed robbery convictions, Judge Massiah-Jackson sentenced the defendant to concurrent terms of 11 1/2 to 23 months imprisonment. Her sentence was 3 years below the standard guidelines and 1 year below even the mitigated guidelines. The Supreme Court found that the downward departure was unreasonable and vacated the sentence. 
In Williams, the defendant pled guilty to robbery and possession of an instrument of a crime. The defendant, in attempting to take the victim's purse, viciously slashed the victim with a razor. Despite having a prior criminal history, Judge Massiah-Jackson again sentenced the defendant to only 11 1/2 to 23 months' imprisonment and then immediately paroled him. The superior court again held that this sentence was unreasonable--it was substantially below the minimum sentencing guidelines which required a minimum of 4 to 7 years' imprisonment for robbery with a deadly weapon. In addition to finding that Judge Massiah-Jackson had improperly lowered the defendant's offense gravity score, the superior court also found her refusal to apply a deadly weapon enhancement to the razor was clearly erroneous. The court vacated Judge Massiah-Jackson's unreasonable low sentence. 
In addition to these reversals for illegal sentences, I would like to provide an example of why I am so concerned about Judge Massiah-Jackson's ability to weigh the facts fairly. Recently, the committee has received numerous cases that were not previously provided by the committee. One of these cases, Commonwealth v. Smith, appears to be a particularly egregious case, and I want to tell you about it so you may assess for yourself why this nominee is perceived as being unalterably hostile to crime fighting. 
In the early evening of September 28, 1990, a 13-year-old boy was dragged into the bushes on the grounds of a Philadelphia 
hospital. The assailant raped and sodomized the boy, threatening to kill him. Despite the fact that his face was slashed with a box cutter, the boy managed to escape from his assailant's clutches. Naked and bleeding, he told two female hospital employees who were passing by what had just happened and that his attacker, a man, was still in the bushes. Shortly thereafter, hospital guards arrived and took the boy to the emergency room for treatment. 
The two women then saw a man crawling out of the bushes where the boy had told them the attack had occurred. They made eye contact with the man from only 2 feet away. The man jumped to his feet and turned to walk away from the crowd of security guards and bystanders. 
One of the women informed the guards of the man's appearance. Remember, the two women, according to the court of appeals' decision, never lost sight of the man until after he was apprehended by police just 2 minutes after they spotted him crawling out of the bushes where the young boy said he was. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand this to be the case. As I noted, the record as of today is unclear on a number of these issues. The Department of Justice is still reviewing some of these cases. But the fact that the defendant was eventually acquitted does not excuse the fact that she was reversed on appeal, that we only learned of this case last week, and that there certainly appeared to be probable cause to arrest him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am aware that she may have handed down some tough sentences as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I want to echo the remarks of my colleague, Senator Bennett, in sharing with the Senate the creed written by our fellow Utahn, Terry Harris. It is an inspiring declaration of personal integrity and determination. I join in commending Terry Harris. I urge all Americans to read it and carefully consider its message, not just to African Americans, but to all of us. In doing the right thing, the power of a single individual can make our country a better place. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have listened with great care to the arguments that have been made today and in the past, on past days, in opposition to the nomination of Dr. David Satcher. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am sorry. Will the Senator from Massachusetts yield some time to me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as I said, I have listened with care to the arguments made today in opposition to the nomination of Dr. David Satcher for the position of Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Service and Assistant Secretary for Health, and I feel compelled to rise again in support of this nominee. 
Let me make perfectly clear that I do not agree with all of Dr. Satcher's positions. I do not agree with all of the positions, indeed with many of the positions, of the Administration he will represent. 
But, on balance, my overriding consideration, after having spoken extensively with Dr. Satcher, is my conviction that he has exemplary qualifications and experiences that will enable him to hold this important office with great distinction. 
I know that others, like my friend from Missouri, Senator Ashcroft, and Senator Coats and others earnestly believe that Dr. Satcher should not be confirmed as Surgeon General. I respect their point of view, especially Senator Ashcroft's and Senator Coats' point of view. I believe they have raised some necessary questions for the nominee to answer. 
The debate over this nomination has focused on important issues of public policy such as partial birth abortion and the appropriate role of the United States conduct of clinical trials in the Third World. 
These are indeed serious issues worthy of debate by this chamber. It is important for this body to know what the Surgeon General thinks about key issues pertaining to the health of the American public and the health of our international neighbors. 
This year Congress has the opportunity to pass historic public health legislation that can protect our nation's teenagers by materially reducing the next generation of smokers. 
If we accomplish this--and I think we should because each day 3,000 young people begin to smoke and ultimately 1,000 will die early from smoking related diseases--a portion of this success must be attributed to the involvement past Surgeons Generals. 
In 1964, it was Surgeon General Luther Terry who first reported to Americans that smoking is a major cause of disease. Frankly, it was this Surgeon's General report that did as much as anything that set the course that places us on the verge of this historic legislation. 
Since 1964, all succeeding Surgeons General have played an active role in warning the public of the risks of tobacco use. 
In the 1980s, it was Surgeon General C. Everett Koop who did so much to put this issue back on the front burner of public opinion. 
I don't think that there is any question about the fact that one of the most important legacies of the Office of Surgeon General over the last 35 years is the great contribution that these officials have played in significantly cutting down the number of Americans who use tobacco products to about 25 percent of the population. 
But 25 percent is still too high because it results in an estimated 400,000 premature deaths annually and runs up billions in extra health care costs. 
In my view, we must have a Surgeon General who is able to communicate effectively with the American people about the risks of tobacco use. 
On the Today Show last Friday morning, former Surgeon General Koop--a strong supporter of Dr. Satcher--pointed out that in the years since the Office of Surgeon General has been vacant, certain types of youth tobacco use have gone up about 4 percent. 
It just seems to me that it is critical at this time to have in office a Surgeon General who can lead the Government's anti-tobacco use efforts. 
From his past efforts in this battle against smoking while at CDC--and from my personal conversations with him--I am convinced that Dr. David Satcher can be a major public figure in the country's battle against tobacco use. 
No one is saying that a policy of prohibition for tobacco would be workable. This makes it all the more important that public opinion leaders, like the Surgeon General, be able to communicate the risks of tobacco use in a fashion that convinces the public about the benefits of stopping to use these deadly products. 
I think Dr. Satcher can play the role of public spokesman in an effective fashion because, when the American people get to know him, he will have earned their respect and will listen to his advice of matters of public health. 
While tobacco alone is critically important, there are many other public health issues that cry out for the national focus and leadership that a strong Surgeon General can provide. 
In many respects, we are at a critical juncture in the battle against HIV transmission and other sexually transmitted diseases. Fortunately, the latest triple combination therapies have shown--at least in the short run--great promise in combating the progression of the AIDS virus. 
But, unfortunately, this may lead some people to conclude falsely that HIV has been cured or is at least not dangerous, or not very dangerous. 
This may lead some young people to engage in sexual behaviors and drug abuse behaviors that not only are morally troublesome, but can be potentially lethal. 
In this regard, there are some recent indications that certain types of sexually transmitted disease are once again on the rise. 
We need a strong Surgeon General to help teach our citizens, and particularly our young citizens, that abstinence from promiscuous sexual behavior and illicit drugs is good for your health. 
I am pleased that Dr. Satcher has a strong track record in getting this message out--and as a long time health educator he knows how to get this message out in a way that young people will listen to. And given his long record of involvement as a health leader with special ties to those in the minority community--from his work at Morehouse College and Meharry Medical School and the King-Drew Medical Center--Dr. Satcher promises to be able to use his leadership position as Surgeon General to direct greater attention on health problems that disproportionately affect minority communities. 
I have no doubt in my mind that Dr. Satcher will be able to serve effectively as Surgeon General for all the people in this country. 
Under his leadership at CDC, the agency put greater emphasis on prevention. I think that there is much truth in the old adage, `An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.' Frankly, as a conservative, I think Government debates pounds and pounds of cures, having completely lost sight of the benefits of a little old-fashioned, non-governmental ounce of prevention. 
In the past I have been involved in a number of confirmations of Surgeons General. 
During the Bush Administration, I enthusiastically supported the nomination and confirmation of Surgeon General Antonia Novello. 
Dr. Novello came from a research background at the National Institute of Child Health and Development and did a very good job for this country. Dr. Novello spent much of her efforts on pediatrics problems such as pediatric AIDS programs. 
Before that, I was involved in the then very controversial nomination of Dr. C. Everett Koop by President Reagan. 
At the time of his nomination, many had concerns that Dr. Koop, a pediatric surgeon by training who held strong pro-life views on abortion, would turn the Surgeon General's role into a polarizing position because of the politics of abortion. 
Dr. Koop and I went to his opponents and explained that the great challenge and responsibility of the Surgeon General's office is not to stress issues that divide Americans but to act to unite the public by educating our citizens about the medical and scientific facts of health issues. 
 I might mention that was a big battle. It took 8 months to get Dr. Koop approved because of pro-choice Senators. But, finally, he was approved and those Senators became some of his strongest supporters through the years. 
I agree with Dr. Koop's oft-repeated statement that the job title is Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, not chaplain of the Public Health Service. 
I think that history will judge that I was correct in my assessment that Dr. Koop was the right man for the job. I know that many who voted against him now agree that Dr. Koop was an outstanding Surgeon General. 
It is somewhat ironic that one of the issues raised in the Koop confirmation has also been raised in the Satcher confirmation. 
That matter is abortion, in particular the nominee's view of partial birth abortion. 
Let me be abundantly clear: I am firmly and resolutely opposed to partial birth abortion. I disagree with the views of both the President and Dr. Satcher on this issue. I think that they are in the minority on this issue. 
Nevertheless, I don't think that Dr. Satcher's views on this issue should disqualify him for this 
 position, so long as he does not make it a matter of public policy and does not advocate for it. And he has indicated to me that he will not advocate for it, that he will not bring abortion into the debate if he is confirmed as Surgeon General. 
While others who have held this post have endeavored to use it as a bully pulpit for a controversial social policy agenda, I am assured by Dr. Satcher that he fully understands the extreme sensitivity of these issues, particularly abortion. In my discussions with him, he has assured me that he will not use the Surgeon General's Office as a pro-abortion platform, and I believe him. And, with that assurance, I am willing to support him here today. 
As Dr. Satcher has written to the Congress:  
Let me state unequivocally that I have no intention of using the positions of Assistant Secretary for Health and Surgeon General to promote issues related to abortion. I share no one's political agenda and I want to use the power of these positions to focus on issues that unite Americans--not divide them. 
If I am confirmed by the Senate, I will strongly promote a message of abstinence and responsibility to our youth, which I believe can help to reduce the number of abortions in our country. 
Let me tell you, I can't tell you how much that means to me, that we have a Democrat-appointed Surgeon General who is willing to preach abstinence throughout this country to our youth. And to preach--I should say teach, would be a better word--good health practices. 
I have to say some of our Republican Surgeons General haven't done this as well as I think Dr. Satcher will be inclined to do it. So that is one reason alone to vote for Dr. Satcher. And it is about time. 
It seems to me that Dr. Satcher and Dr. Koop, while having almost completely opposing views on abortion, share the view that the Surgeon General's post is not the place to press the public debate on this contentious issue. 
Given his public assurances--which have been butressed by my private conversations with the nominee--I am satisfied that Dr. Satcher can effectively help set the public health agenda of this country and can do it in a way that perhaps no other person at this time can. I think it is time to get this position filled and I think he will do a great job in it, and I intend to see that he does. 
I also recognize that a lot of this debate has focused on the question of certain AZT trials co-sponsored by CDC and NIH in Thailand and the Ivory Coast. 
I think that this debate has been healthy and has been helpful in facilitating a better understanding of the proper role of United States public health agencies in conducting research in the Third World. 
First off, let me just make the point that I believe that any comparisons with the infamous Tuskegee experiments is way wide of the mark. Those natural history studies held no promise of treatment and, in fact, after a treatment was found, this treatment was denied to the participants of the study. 
Unlike Tuskegee, these AZT trials have a strong informed consent component. 
These trials were undertaken in close cooperation with the World Health Organization and the national and local public health officials of the country where the trials took place. As a proponent of the successful FDA export bill in 1995, the Hatch-Gregg amendment, I believe that it is imperative in forming public health policy that the United States must recognize and respect the differences in health and wealth characteristics of our foreign neighbors. 
What is the standard of care in the United States may simply not be appropriate, proper, or possible in another country. 
In fact, as former Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Louis Sullivan has written to me to rebut criticisms raised against Dr. Satcher. Dr. Sullivan pointed out with respect to these AZT trials: 
Part of the problem is that the cost of the drugs involved is beyond the resources of developing nations. In Malawi, for example, the regimen for one woman and her child is more than 600 times the annual per capita allocation for health care. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me be clear: This economic circumstance is a sad fact of life in many developing nations but it is a fact of life nevertheless. 
A key question is how best to bring new treatments and new hope to these underprivileged peoples around the world. 
As Dr. Sullivan goes on to explain what happened in the construction of these trials you can see that the U.S. standard of care--the so-called long course AZT treatment could not serve as the proper baseline: 
Given the general recognition that this therapy could not be widely carried out in developing nations, the WHO in 1994 convened top scientists and health professionals from around the world to explore a shorter, less costly, and less complicated drug regimen that could be used in developing countries. This meeting concluded that the best way to determine efficacy and safety could be to conduct research studies that compare a shorter drug regimen with a placebo--that is, no medicine at all. 
Let me just go on to tell you what Dr. Sullivan--the Bush Administration's HHS Secretary who is currently President of the Morehouse School of Medicine--thinks about the comparison of this study to the Tuskegee study: 
As one who feels strongly about what happened in Tuskegee, let me say that it is utterly inappropriate to compare these trials with Tuskegee where established treatment was withheld so that the course of the disease could be observed while these men died. The AZT trials being carried out in developing countries are for the purpose of developing treatment that is appropriate, effective and safe to prevent the spread of HIV from mother to child. 
Dr. Sullivan is joined in his opinion by many health experts such as the American Medical Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics, that support Dr. Satcher. 
Let me just conclude that I respect the views of those who have raised issues about this nominee. I certainly respect their right to raise these issues, but when I weigh all the evidence, I come to the conclusion that Dr. Satcher's nomination should be strongly supported. 
Frankly, I find his life inspiring. He comes from humble roots. He is an American success story. He is a good man. And I judge that he will be a fair man. I am confident that if we confirm him, David Satcher will do his best to advance and protect the health of the American public. 
I do not agree with all his views but I do believe that this good American merits our votes. 
Let me mention a few of Dr. Satcher's accomplishments both before and during his tenure at CDC: 
Dr. Satcher has led an international effort to reduce transmission of HIV from mother to child; 
He has worked to close the health gap between the `haves' and the `have-nots.' He was the Chair of Community and Family Medicine at Morehouse College. He served as the President of Meharry Medical College which has as a primary mission caring for the underserved. 
In fact, Dr. Satcher has led an innovative public/private effort to consolidate the Meharry teaching hospital with the county facility in order to reduce cost and improve care; 
During his tenure at CDC, the childhood immunization rate has risen from 55 percent to 78 percent. Over 90 percent of children are now immunized against measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, pertussis and hemophilus. With particular respect to measles, between 1989 and 1991, over 27,000 kids suffered each year. In 1995 there were less than 500 cases, and last year there were no deaths. 
In years prior to approval of a vaccine for hemophilus B influenza, about 1,000 children died a year. Dr. Satcher has worked to promote use of this new vaccine, and last year, only nine families suffered a death; 
During Dr. Satcher's tenure, the number of states with breast cancer screening programs has risen from 18 to 50; 
Another accomplishment of Dr. Satcher's is Food Net, a new surveillance system which detects foodborne illnesses. It worked in 1996 when there was a salmonella outbreak from apple juice and again with the tainted raspberries from Guatemala; 
Dr. Satcher has developed and nurtured a program to provide public health information on the leading cause of death for African-Americans between 15 and 24. These statistics, along with a teenage suicide rate that has tripled since 1950, are a problem our Nation's physicians and leading public health authorities have stated they cannot ignore any longer; 
Dr. Satcher has also developed a much-needed comprehensive approach to detecting and combating infections emerging in both the U.S. and around the world. The possibility that world travel could quickly result in an epidemic underscores the need for a rapid detection system. 
All of these are tremendous accomplishments in a relatively short period of time by a man who had just one small agency under his control. 
I do not agree with all of Dr. Satcher's views. But I didn't agree with all of Dr. Koop's views or all of Dr. Novello's views either, but probably more with them than I do with Dr. Satcher. But I believe this good American merits our votes. 
President Clinton did win the election. He should have the right to have a Surgeon General of his choice, so long as that person is within the mainstream and so long as that person will not advocate a radical agenda that divides America. This man has indicated that he will encourage an agenda that will bring America together, an agenda that will help our youth to abstain from promiscuous sexual activity. He has indicated he will be sensitive in so many other areas that will bring America together. I think Dr. Satcher is a man who, at this time, could do this better than anyone else I know. That is why I support his nomination. I hope that our colleagues will also support him in our vote tomorrow. I yield the floor.  
Mr. JOHNSON addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I listened to my colleague's excellent statement and, of course, since he is the only physician in the Senate, I think we should all pay strict attention to him. 
Let me just say that I am very concerned about debating this bill today, a bill which falls within the jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committee, without our having any hearings or other discussion, because there are a lot of complicated issues involved here. 
I want to let the distinguished Senator from Tennessee know that I support his statements in many respects. I, too, am opposed to cloning of human beings. 
But at the same time, we have to move very carefully in this area so that we do not preclude a lot of very promising medical technologies and very valuable biomedical research. It may be that amendments are need to clarify that. 
I maintain an interest in this issue both as Chairman of the Committee under whose jurisdiction this criminal code amendment would fall, and as a Senator with a long-standing interest in biomedical research and ethics. 
The questions raised by this legislation are both novel and difficult and it behooves us to move carefully.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the remarks I am about to give be considered as if in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have listened with great care to our debate about the nomination of Dr. David Satcher over the past few days. It has been a constructive discussion, one which has raised a number of important issues. 
I have the greatest respect for the Offices of the Surgeon General and Assistant Secretary for Health. The individual who occupies this position will become the Nation's No. 1 public health official, our top doctor, if you will. For this reason, this nomination deserves the utmost scrutiny. 
I have the greatest respect for our colleague, the Senator from Missouri. I think he has made some arguments that raise very valid concerns, and it behooves this body to examine them. 
That being said, after a great deal of analysis, I have concluded that Dr. Satcher is eminently qualified for the position, and that there is a more than adequate explanation for his position on two key issues--partial-birth abortion and HIV testing in Third World countries. Accordingly, I intend to support his nomination. 
From a humble rural background, David Satcher has risen to become a leading public health expert--the director of the prestigious Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a doctor who is widely respected for his ability to communicate scientific information in a credible manner. He has done a great job at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
I have spoken at length with Dr. Satcher and became convinced that he has an agenda that Americans of both parties should support. Tobacco control is at the top of that agenda. On the issues of teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted disease, Dr. Satcher intends to promote abstinence and assures me that he believes health and sex education are a parental responsibility, in which the Government should play only a supportive role. Moreover, Dr. Satcher believes science should determine health policy, attendant upon which we have based virtually all of the public health legislation that has passed this body. 
Let me note for the Record that Dr. Satcher has experience with three of the four historically black medical schools. He learned firsthand of the problems that Americans face in seeking care, and he does not advocate for a Federal solution. 
During Dr. Satcher's tenure at CDC, the Centers for Disease Control, he worked to increase childhood immunization rates, to develop better ways to protect Americans from new infections, and decrease teenage pregnancy rates. He has also demonstrated U.S. leadership in attacking the world AIDS problem. 
Critics of the nomination have raised concern that he supports the President's position on partial-birth abortion. It is no secret that I disagree vehemently with that position and will continue to work until a prohibition on partial-birth abortion is the law of the land. 
Yes, it is true that Dr. Satcher supports the President's position, which is not surprising given that Dr. Satcher is the President's nominee. I certainly understand the motivation of some in saying that he should be opposed for that reason. 
But in reviewing the hearing record on this nomination, I am impressed by Dr. Satcher's assurances to the committee on this issue. He said, `Let me unequivocally state that I have no intention of using the positions of Assistant Secretary for Health and Surgeon General to promote issues relating to abortion. I share no one's political agenda, and I want to use the power of these positions to focus on issues that unite Americans, not divide them. If confirmed by the Senate, I will strongly promote a message of abstinence and responsibility to our youth, which I believe can help to reduce the number of abortions in our country.' I believe that nothing in Dr. Satcher's background, including his work as CDC Director, suggests that he would try to make the Surgeon General's post into a pro-abortion bully pulpit. Indeed, he has personally given me his assurances to the contrary. 
I remember when Dr. C. Everett Koop was nominated by a 
Republican President and his nomination was held up for some 8 or 9 months on the issue of abortion, even though Dr. Koop asserted he would not use the Surgeon General's Office as a public forum for advocacy for abortion. As things worked out, we finally were able to get him confirmed, and I won't go into all the details on how that happened. He proved to be one of the great Surgeons General of the United States. I believe Dr. Satcher will likewise prove to be a very successful Surgeon General of the United States. I urge my colleagues to vote for him. 
In addition, I am aware that another series of questions has been raised regarding joint CDC/NIH-sponsored clinical trials conducted in Thailand and the Ivory Coast to determine the effectiveness of AZT to prevent pregnant mothers from transmitting the HIV virus to their children. 
In a nutshell, concern has been raised because the foreign trials were placebo-controlled against a `short course' regimen, whereas, in the United States a `long course' AZT regimen would have been the baseline for care. While it is clear that an argument can be made that the U.S. standard of care could have been used, this would not have resolved a more difficult problem of lack of access to expensive medications. 
While opinion is hardly unanimous on this issue, the better view is that these grounds were appropriate to the nations and the populations studied. These trials were done in complete partnership with the local patients, health officials, and the World Health Organization. 
As our debate on the Hatch-Gregg FDA export bill in 1995 made abundantly clear, we need not and should not second-guess the choice of patients and officials in other countries who, for a myriad of reasons, seek not to use the American standard of care. I believe it is critical for those in Congress to respect differences of the health and wealth characteristics of other countries. What is appropriate policy in the United States is not necessarily appropriate in the Third World. 
Mr. President, I want to emphasize the importance of the position Dr. Satcher seeks to assume. The Surgeon General is the head of the United States Public Health Service Commission Corps. And, formerly, the position of Assistant Secretary for Health was the top public health slot in the government. Unfortunately, the position of Assistant Secretary for Health was downgraded in the Clinton administration and has become less important since the `ASH' no longer has line authority over the public health agencies such as CDC, NIH and FDA. 
I hope that Dr. Satcher will undertake a review of that decision because I think it was a mistake, and I hope to discuss that with him in the future. 
In closing, I want to point out that Dr. Satcher has a distinguished record that will be an asset to those important public health positions. 
Doctor Satcher is a recognized public health leader and a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, the recipient of numerous awards, such as the 1996 awardee of the AMA's prestigious Dr. Nathan B. Davis award. 
In short, Dr. Satcher is a well-credentialed, highly effective public health leader. If confirmed, he will be the highest-ranking physician within HHS and could be counted on to be an articulate national spokesperson on a wide range of public health issues that we all agree are important. 
I think we can all learn by the example set almost 20 years ago when this body, as I mentioned earlier, confirmed C. Everett Koop to be Surgeon General over the objections of many in the other party. 
The fears about Dr. Koop's partisanship were unfounded. Today, he is widely respected by Senators on both sides of the aisle, and it is my hope that this is a legacy Dr. Satcher will leave as well.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I also want to take this 
opportunity to announce what I consider to be an important development on the tobacco legislative front. 
This morning, a senior official in the administration, David Ogden, counselor to Attorney General Reno, delivered testimony on the tobacco settlement at the House Judiciary Committee hearing. 
Mr. Ogden testified that: 
If there is agreement on a comprehensive bill that advances the public health, then reasonable provisions modifying the civil liability of the tobacco industry would not be a deal breaker. 
Since announcement of the June 20 proposed tobacco settlement last year, I have maintained that a legislative measure which incorporates strong public health provisions in conjunction with certain defined civil liability reforms could do more to stop the next generation of our children from getting hooked on tobacco than any bill we have ever considered. 
The Administration's announcement today will do much to make passage of that landmark legislation possible. I call upon the President to send us his language on a priority basis. In fact, I have invited the Department of Justice to testify at the Judiciary Committee hearing next Tuesday on the tobacco settlement, and we will be greatly interested in the details of the President's position on liability. 
Mr. President, this is a stunning breakthrough, one which I believe greatly increases the probability that a broad, bipartisan consensus can be reached on the tobacco settlement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
Mr. FRIST addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that an address I gave to the Progress and Freedom Foundation be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I was supposed to be here at 2 to give a short speech and introduce a bill. Would it be all right with the distinguished Senator from Maryland if I do that? I have to chair the Judiciary Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could go immediately following the Senator from Maryland. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator withhold for just a short moment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. 
I oppose this amendment. Yes, there are things that can be said, but there are many things that have been accomplished during the tenure of Hoover. I have to say there is a raft of FBI agents who would be very offended by this. And I don't think we should do it. As a matter of fact, if we go back through time, if you look at all the good things that were done and all the many accomplishments of the FBI, you have to conclude there was an awful lot that we have to be proud of even though there are some things that are certainly to be criticized and rightfully so. 
When the Senate takes action to honor--or discredit--men and women who have favorably shaped this nation, we should do so only after careful reflection and deliberation. We must also be careful not to allow the faults or excesses of an individual overshadow the contributions they have made to our country. 
I think we need to consider the negative effect passage of this amendment could have on an institution that has made a profound contribution to the safety and security of this nation. The FBI is deservedly recognized as the preeminent law enforcement agency in the world. And whether we care to like him or not, unlike any other institution in our federal government, there is one person that is directly responsible for the FBI's rise in prominence, J. Edgar Hoover. Under Hoover, the FBI was transformed from a small sleepy Washington office, into the major force thwarting criminal activity in this country. 
Hoover took over the FBI in May 1924 and placed the Bureau at the forefront in combating the major gangster activity of that era. The FBI was directly responsible for the arrest of notable gangsters such as John Dillinger and Baby Face Nelson. During World War II the FBI spearheaded efforts to uncover Nazi saboteurs and spies infiltrating the United States in an effort to disrupt the Allied war effort. 
In the 1950's under Hoover's leadership the Bureau was instrumental in the identification and arrest of Soviet Spies of the likes of Sobel and Abel, as well as the arrest of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Remember also, that it was the Hoover FBI that cracked the infamous Brinks robbery in Boston, loudly touted as the `Crime of the Century' at that time. 
Among many other responsibilities, the FBI played a vital role in the 1960's in fighting deep seated racism in the deep south. It was Hoover's FBI that combated threats from the Ku Klux Klan. It was this same FBI that investigated the infamous `Mississippi Burning' case that brought to justice those responsible for the senseless murder of 3 civil rights workers. It was this same FBI 
that brought James Earl Ray to justice. It was also the Hoover FBI of the 1960's that conducted an extensive investigation into organized crime that led to the identification of an enormous criminal network stretching from Chicago to New York and Boston, and touched the lives of countless communities in between. Today we recognize this network as La Cosa Nostra. 
This is merely a snap shot of the considerable accomplishments made by the FBI under the leadership of J. Edgar Hoover. Let me remind my colleagues that the day after his death in 1972, Hoover's body was laid in State in the Rotunda of the Capitol--an honor bestowed upon only 21 other Americans in the history of this great nation. 
In his death, despite revelations that have been made, it is undeniable that Hoover's legacy in building the FBI to its current stature continues to have a profound effect upon the safety and security of this nation. From the investigation and arrest of those responsible for the World Trade Center bombing, to the recent conviction of Unabomber Ted Kaczynski; from the arrest of CIA agent Aldrich Ames for espionage, to the investigation that resulted in the convictions of Timothy Macveigh and Terry Nichols for the Oklahoma City bombing, the FBI continues to be recognized as a vital component of law enforcement. Let us honor the legacy of this honorable institution, by continuing to give appropriate recognition to Mr. Hoover, the principal architect in its rise to prominence. 
In reviewing my colleague from Nevada's reasoning for this amendment, it is clear that he believes he is doing the right thing. I do not question his sincerity. But I do not think the Senate should act on accounts contained in a single book. 
More importantly, we are here today to honor President Reagan. I urge each of my colleagues to address this issue alone without being compelled to bring other agencies or memorials into the equation. 
So I hope our colleagues will vote against this amendment. I respect my good friend from Nevada, but I oppose this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the motion was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, may we have order? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I want to compliment the manager of the bill for his good arguments.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I want to compliment the manager of the bill and others who voted against this amendment. I know it was sincerely brought, and I know that there may be some arguments that some could raise. But in all honesty, the FBI has been one of our most venerable institutions for all of these years. 
We know that the former Director deserves most of the credit for building it and that there are literally thousands of FBI agents who would have been very upset if that amendment was adopted. 
I thank all of our colleagues for having voted to table the amendment, and I hope that we do not do this in the future. We do not put names on buildings idly, and we do not do them facetiously, and we do not do them foolishly. Once they are there, we ought to remember the traditions and history and the good things that really were done. All of us have faults, all of us make mistakes, and all of us need to work out our own repentance for things that we do from time to time. 
So I thank everybody who did vote to table the amendment for having done so, and I think they did the right thing. 
Mr. REID addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is with great honor and reverence that I rise today with my friend and colleague, Senator Cleland, to introduce a Constitutional Amendment to permit Congress to enact legislation prohibiting the desecration of the American flag. 
Mr. President, symbols are important. They remind us of who, and what, we are. Those of us who are married, for example, wear wedding rings to symbolize the commitment we have made to share our lives with another person. For those of us who are Christians, the cross serves to remind us of the importance of faith and sacrifice. Similarly, Jews unite behind the Star of David, which tells them they are of an ancient faith and lineage. These representations are not trivial. They help bind us together and give us a common identity. 
In similar fashion, the American flag serves as a symbol of our great nation. As a religious symbol serves to remind its adherents of their common identity, the flag represents in a way nothing else can, the common bond shared by an otherwise diverse people. Whatever our differences of party, race, religion, or socio-economic status, the flag reminds us that we are very much one people, united in a shared destiny, bonded in a common faith in our nation. 
Nearly a decade ago, Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens reminded us of the significance of our unique emblem when he wrote:  
A country's flag is a symbol of more than nationhood and national unity. It also signifies the ideas that characterize the society that has chosen that emblem as well as the special history that has animated the growth and power of those ideas. . . . So it is with the American flag. It is more than a proud symbol of the courage, the determination, and the gifts of a nation that transformed 13 fledgling colonies into a world power. It is a symbol of freedom, of equal opportunity, of religious tolerance, and of goodwill for other peoples who share our aspirations. 
Justice Stevens' words ring true. After all, for over 200 years, this proud banner has symbolized hope, opportunity, justice and, most of all, freedom, not just to the people of this nation, but to people all over the world. 
Perhaps no three events symbolize the importance of this national symbol better than the great battle to our North that gave rise to our national anthem, the `Star Spangled Banner'; the raising of the American flag on the Island of Iwo Jima by United States Marines during World War II; and the planting of the flag upon the moon. 
When Francis Scott Key, imprisoned on a ship in Baltimore Harbor, looked to the besieged Fort McHenry he penned the immortal question `O say does that star spangled banner yet waive, o'er the land of the free and the home of the brave?' That dark night, he witnessed the bombardment of the fort, and knew that if it fell, the tide of the war could turn. In the early morning light, Key gazed out across the water to see if the fledgling nation had survived. And one glorious symbol gave him his answer. 
In the second verse of our great national anthem, Key described what he saw: `On the shore dimly seen through the mists of the deep, where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes--What is that which the breeze o'er the towering steep--as it fitfully blows, half conceals, half discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam in full glory reflected now shines on the stream. `Tis the Star Spangled Banner, Oh long may it wave o'er the land of the free and the home of the brave.' When Francis Scott Key looked out that morning, oh how he must have felt to have seen that yes, that banner did wave and that the hope of the nation was preserved. 
At a similarly cricial point in this nation's history, Americans rallied around a photograph of United States Marines raising the flag on the island of Iwo Jima during World War II. That heroic image, immortalized in the Marine Corps Memorial next to Arlington National Cemetery, instantly came to symbolize the determination and courage of all the brave Americans fighting in that great struggle for the very survival of America as a free nation. Seeing the American flag raised on an island so close to the enemy's shore, so far from home, gave the country the will it needed to fight on. 
Fifty years later, the planting of the flag on that small pacific island remains one of our nation's most powerful images, reminding us that throughout our history, through the generations, from the Battle of Bunker Hill, to the Civil War, to Operation Desert Storm, on every continent and ocean, in every corner of the world, Americans have fought, and in many cases given their lives, fighting under this flag for the nation and the ideals it represents. 
And who can forget the fact that the greatest honor bestowed upon those who have died in battle or otherwise given great service to this nation, is to have the flag draped over their caskets. It is a reminder to the living that they owe their freedoms to those who have fallen and a promise to the dead that their country has not forgotten them. 
It is not only in war that this national symbol has served to unite us. Few who saw it live on television will forget the moment when Neal Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin planted the American flag on the moon. This moment, perhaps more than any other, demonstrated that we are a nation of restless explorers, of dreamers, always ready to reach for the stars. The flag planted upon that alien soil was a testimony to the hard work, the ingenuity, and the pioneer spirit of the American people. 
I am therefore proud to rise today to introduce a constitutional amendment that would restore to Congress the right to protect our unique national symbol, the American flag, from acts of physical desecration. 
Restoring legal protection to the American flag is not, nor should it be, a partisan issue. Fifty four Senators, both Republicans and Democrats, have joined with Senator Cleland and myself as original cosponsors of this amendment. 
Now, some have argued that this Amendment actually violates American principles. They contend that preventing the physical desecration of the flag actually tramples on the sacred right of Americans to speak freely. I disagree. Restoring legal protection to the American flag would not infringe on free speech. If burning the flag were the only means of expressing dissatisfaction with the nation's policies, then I, too, might oppose this amendment. But we live in a free and open society. Those who wish to express their political opinions may do so in the media, in newspaper editorials, in peaceful demonstrations, and through their power to vote. 
Certainly, smashing in the doors of the State Department may be a way of expressing one's dissatisfaction with the nation's foreign policy objectives. And one may even consider such behavior speech. Laws, however, can be enacted preventing such actions--in large part because there are peaceful alternatives that can be equally powerful. After all, right here in the United States Senate, we prohibit speeches or demonstrations of any kind, even the silent display of signs or banners, in the public galleries. As a society, we can and do place limitations on both speech and conduct. 
Moreover, contrary to the claims of some, restoring legal protection to the American flag would not overturn or otherwise constrict the First Amendment. Rather, it would merely overturn an interpretation of that amendment by the Supreme Court, in which the Court, by the narrowest of margins, held that flag burning was a form of protected free speech. I believe the Court's majority had it wrong--that its decision flew in the face of over 200 years of American history: burning the flag is conduct--conduct for which there exists numerous peaceful alternatives--and may be prohibited. The amendment Senator Cleland and I propose would correct the Supreme Court's error and restore to Congress and the States the power they historically had to protect the American flag from acts of physical desecration. 
Nor would restoring legal protection to the American flag place us on a slippery slope to limit other freedoms. The flag is unique as our national symbol. There is no other symbol, no other object, which represents our nation as does the flag. Accordingly, there is no basis for concern that the protection we seek for the American flag could be extended to cover any other object or form of political expression. 
For many years, our flag was protected, by federal laws and laws in 48 states, from acts of physical desecration. No one can seriously argue that freedom of speech or freedom of expression was diminished or curtailed during that period. Restoring the protection of law to our flag would not prevent the expression, in numerous ways safeguarded under the Constitution, of a single idea or thought. 
I would note that the effort to restore legal protection to our national symbol is a movement of the American people. It has been initiated by grassroot Americans; numerous civic, veterans and patriotic organizations, led by the American Legion, joined together in the Citizens Flag Alliance, working to build support across this nation for a constitutional amendment to restore the historical protection of our flag. And forty-six states have passed resolutions urging Congress to send a flag protection amendment to the states for ratification. 
That is no small support. I believe we need to support them. 
I therefore think that the will of the people should not be frustrated by this body. This resolution should be adopted, and the flag amendment sent to the states for their approval. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am very honored to be a cosponsor with my dear friend from Georgia, Senator Cleland. I appreciate the efforts he has put forth in this battle, and having served in the military as he has done with such distinction and with such courage and heroism I think we ought to all listen to him and I for one will certainly do that. I am proud and privileged to be able to work with him. So I yield the floor to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet at 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday, February 3, 1998, in open session, to receive testimony on the Defense authorization request for fiscal year 1999 and the future years Defense program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full Committee on Environment and Public Works be granted permission to conduct a hearing Tuesday, February 3, 1998, at 2:00 p.m., Hearing Room (SD-406), to receive testimony from Donald J. Barry, nominated by the President to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, Department of the Interior; and Sallyanne Harper, nominated by the President, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, February 3, 1998, at 10:00 a.m., to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Forests and Public Land Management of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, February 3, 1998, for purposes of conducting a subcommittee hearing which is scheduled to begin at 2:30 p.m. The purpose of this hearing is to receive testimony on S. 1253, the Public Land Management Improvement Act of 1997. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I rise today to support the nominations of Carlos Moreno to the Federal district bench in the Central District of California and Christine O. Miller to the Court of Federal Claims. 
I plan to discuss in greater detail why I intend to support these judges' nominations, but first I would like to address some of the concerns that have been expressed with respect to the Senate's role in the confirmation of Federal judges. 
As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, one of the most important duties I hold or fulfill is in screening judicial nominees. Indeed, the Constitution itself obligates the Senate to provide the President with advice concerning his nominees and to consent to their ultimate confirmation. Although some have complained about the pace at which the Senate has moved on judicial nominees, I would note that this body has undertaken its constitutional obligation in a wholly appropriate fashion. 
Indeed, the first matter to come before the Senate this session was confirmation of three of President Clinton's judicial nominees. Senator Lott is to be commended for giving these nominees early attention. As well, the Judiciary Committee has announced judicial confirmation hearings for February 4 and February 25. 
In 1997, the first session of the 105th Congress, the Senate confirmed 36 judges. This is only slightly behind the historical average of 41 judges confirmed during the first sessions in each of the last five Congresses. And I would note the Judiciary Committee itself processed 47 nominees, including the two judges we are considering today. 
Currently, there are 88 judicial vacancies in the judiciary, 85 if the three nominees confirmed last week are included. In May 1992, however, when a Republican occupied the White House and the Democrats controlled the Senate, there were 117 vacancies on the Federal bench. 
In fact, there are more sitting Federal judges today than there were through virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations. As of today, there are 756 active Federal judges. In addition, there are 432 senior judges who must, by law, hear cases, albeit with a reduced load. Ordinarily, when a judge decides to leave the bench, he or she does not completely retire, but instead takes senior status. A judge who takes senior status, as opposed to a judge who completely retires, must hear a certain number of cases each year. Thus, when a judge leaves the bench, he or she does not stop working altogether, he or she merely takes a somewhat reduced caseload. 
Even in the ninth circuit, which has 10 vacancies, only one judge has actually stopped hearing cases. The others have all taken senior status and are still hearing cases. The total pool of Federal judges available to hear cases is 1,188, a record number of Federal judges. 
The Republican Senate has confirmed the vast majority of President Clinton's judicial nominees, and if the President continues to send us qualified nominees, I am sure that trend will continue. Let me say, however, that I will not vote to confirm judges who refuse to abide by the rule of law. In my view, that is the absolute minimal qualification an individual must have to serve as one of our lifetime-appointed Federal judges. 
Last year, I sought to steer the confirmation process in a way that kept it a fair and principled one, and exercised what I felt was the appropriate degree of deference to the President's judicial nominees. It is in this spirit of fairness that I will vote to confirm Judge Miller and Judge Moreno. 
Judge Moreno is currently a Los Angeles superior court judge. He was appointed to that position in 1993 by Governor Wilson. Prior to his current appointment, Judge Moreno served as a municipal court judge, worked as an associate in the L.A. firm of Kelley, Drye & Warren, and served as deputy city attorney in Los Angeles. 
Judge Miller currently serves on the Court of Federal Claims. She was appointed to that position in 1983 by President Ronald Reagan. Judge Miller, before her judicial appointment, worked at the law firms of Shack & Kimball, and then Hogan & Hartson. She also had the honor, after graduating from the Utah College of Law, of clerking for the Honorable David Lewis, a Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals judge. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask for the yeas and nays on each of the nominations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I understand that there is a bill at the desk that is due for its second reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I object to further proceedings on this bill at this point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to support the nomination of Ann Aiken to the federal district bench in Oregon. I know too that my distinguished colleagues from that State, Senators Smith and Wyden, wholeheartedly support this nominee. 
And it is no wonder that Judge Aiken enjoys their support. She has served as a state district and circuit court judge for nearly a decade. Before that, she worked in private practice and had extensive involvement in Oregon statehouse politics. Perhaps most significantly, she is the mother of 5 children. As the father of 6 myself, I can think of no better preparation for the bench than first having served as the referee of a large family. 
I plan to discuss in greater detail why I intend to support Judge Aiken's nomination, but first, I would like to address some of the concerns that have been expressed with respect to the Senate's role in the confirmation of federal judges. As Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, one of the most important duties I fulfill is in screening judicial nominees. Indeed, the Constitution itself obligates the Senate to provide the President with advice concerning his nominees and to consent to their ultimate confirmation. Although some have complained about the pace at which the Senate has moved on judicial nominees, I would note that this body has undertaken its constitutional obligation in a wholly appropriate fashion. Indeed, the first matter to come before the Senate this session are the confirmation of three of President Clinton's judicial nominees. Senator Lott is to be commended for giving these nominees early attention. As well, the Judiciary Committee has already announced judicial confirmation hearings for February 4 and February 25. 
In 1997, the first session of the 105th Congress, the Senate confirmed 36 judges. This is only slightly behind the historical average of 41 judges confirmed during the first sessions in each of the last five Congresses. And, I would note, the Judiciary Committee itself processed 47 nominees--including the three judges we will be considering today. 
Keep in mind that the Clinton Administration is on record as having stated that 63 vacancies--a vacancy rate just over 7%--is considered virtual full employment of the federal judiciary. The current vacancy rate--88 vacancies--is a vacancy rate of approximately 10%. Some of those vacancies occurred after the Senate recess last year, however. How can a rise in the vacancy rate--from 7% to 10%--convert `full employment' into a `crisis'? Although we can always do better, this is a record of which I am proud. 
I would further add that there are currently 32 vacancies for which the Committee has yet to receive a nomination. As hard as I work, I have never been able to confirm a person that has not yet been nominated. And I have to say that there were more vacancies just up until a few days ago. 
This is a point, gone largely unnoticed by the popular press, that Chief Justice Rehnquist recently made in his Annual Report on the Judiciary. In that report he urged, among other things, that certain judicial vacancies be filled. I would ask you to compare today's 88 judicial vacancies with the record of a Democratic Senate during President Bush's presidency. In May 1992 there were 117 vacancies on the federal bench. And, interestingly enough, the Chief Justice made basically the same remarks back in 1992 that he did this past month. The only real difference that I can see, however, is that in the days immediately following the Chief Justice's remarks 
we have a plethora of media acting as though there were some big crisis developing basically fomented by the White House and some down at the Justice Department. I might say that in the days immediately following Chief Justice Rehnquist's criticism back in 1992 when there was a Democrat Congress, there were only a handful of newspapers who even bothered to report on the judicial vacancy issue even though there were 117 vacancies during that period of time, and even more. At one time in 1991 there were 148 vacancies, and hardly a peep out of the media, or hardly a peep out of any of the so-called `critics' of today. So it seems that when a Republican President confronted a Democrat Senate on the issue of judicial vacancies the press seemed to be considerably less interested. 
That I think is the state of affairs in Washington. We are all used to it. But I just wanted to point that out because I think it is pretty fallacious to blame the Senate when in many instances we don't have any nominees to fill the position, especially when some of the nominees who came over had problems from the last Congress as well. 
And the number of vacancies is not nearly as problematic as it might appear, at first blush. In fact, there are more sitting federal judges today than there were throughout virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations. As of today, there are 756 active federal judges. In addition, there are 432 senior judges who must, by law, hear cases, albeit with a reduced load but nevertheless taking the burden off of the sitting full-time judges. Ordinarily, when a judge decides to leave the bench, she does not completely retire, but instead takes senior status. A judge who takes senior status, as opposed to a judge who completely retires, must hear a certain number of cases each year. Thus, when a judge leaves the bench, she does not stop working altogether, she merely takes a somewhat reduced caseload. Even in the ninth circuit, which has ten vacancies, only one judge has actually stopped hearing cases; the other have taken senior status and are still hearing cases. The total pool of federal judges available to hear cases is 1,188--a record number of federal judges. 
So this so-called `crisis' has been fomented, frankly, by partisan people at the White House and some at the Justice Department, and, frankly, it is beneath their dignity to do this. I will say that there is room for improvement, and certainly we on the Judiciary Committee want to do everything we can to improve it. I hope that those who manage the floor will feel the same way and do the same thing. 
And some in the media have failed to read completely the Chief Justice's report, or, if they ignored all of the other aspects of the report. 
In fact, his report centered on the problem of judicial workload--not judicial vacancies. He went on to compliment the Senate for enacting habeas corpus and prison litigation reform, two of the bills that I have pushed hard for. The Chief observed that these two vital reforms, which I sponsored, will greatly reduce the federal courts' workload. He also asked Congress to curb federal jurisdiction and to provide better pay for federal judges. I think we may be able to make progress on both those fronts this session in addition to moving qualified judicial nominees. 
I was disappointed to read in the Washington Post a week or so ago that the Clinton White House, `galvanized by the critique by Chief Justice Rehnquist,' has tapped communications director Ann Lewis to head a `fullscale political confrontation' over judicial appointments. [Washington Post, Jan. 16, 1998]. According to the Post, part of the so-called `campaign' plan is to paint Republicans as anti-women and anti-minority. 
There is no depth to which they will stoop in trying to win political points down there. Frankly, I don't think the American people buy that. 
This is certainly a poor way to begin what I hope will turn out to be a cooperative effort to confirm federal judges. We should not play race or gender politics with judges, and I personally resent that. I have never considered, much less kept track of, the race or gender of the nominees that have been submitted for the Committee's approval. And I don't think anyone else does. I oppose, and support, nominees on the basis of their professional qualifications and their commitment to uphold the rule of law--their commitment or lack of commitment. In the final analysis, all that matters is whether a nominee will make a good judge. I hope this is the standard the White House uses as well. 
Nor will the Judiciary Committee, under my stewardship, push nominees through just for the sake of filling vacancies. Only recently, after the Judiciary Committee had expeditiously reviewed and held hearings on two nominees, did information surface that caused one of those nominees to withdraw and that places the other nominee's confirmation prospects in jeopardy. There is a good deal of background research that must be done by the Judiciary Committee before we can send a nominee to the floor. If the Committee fails to do the groundwork, it fails the Senate, and prevents this body from fulfilling its constitutional duty. 
And it is no secret that Senators rely on us doing this duty in a bipartisan way, and I believe for the most part we have. 
The reality, of course, is that the Republican Senate has confirmed the vast majority of President Clinton's judicial nominees. Even the Washington Post expressed dismay over the administration's efforts to politicize the nominations process, writing on its editorial page that the campaign could `grind the nominations process to a halt.' 
So I urge the White House to reconsider their plans to politicize the Federal judiciary and the process because, if they do, I think they are going to have nothing but problems up here. I would like to help them. I would like to be cooperative. I would like to make sure that good nominees get through expeditiously and in the best way. 
Last year I sought to steer the confirmation process in a way that kept it a fair and principled one and exercised what I felt was the appropriate degree of deference to the President's judicial selections and appointees. It is in this spirit of fairness that I will vote to confirm Judge Aiken. 
Conducting a fair confirmation process, however, does not mean granting the President carte blanche in filling the Federal judiciary. It means assuring that those who are confirmed will uphold the Constitution and abide by the rule of law. 
Based upon the committee's review of her record, I believe Ann Aiken to be such a person. Now, Judge Aiken likely would not be my choice if I were sitting in the Oval Office, but the President has seen fit to nominate her. She has the bipartisan support of both Senators from Oregon, and the review conducted by my committee suggests that she understands the proper role of a judge in our Federal system and will abide by the rule of law. She has personally assured me that she will, which goes a long way towards obtaining my vote here today. 
I will also state that both Senators have actively advocated in her behalf, especially the distinguished junior Senator from Oregon, Mr. Smith. He has continuously fought for her--fought for her right to have her nomination hearing, fought for her right to be heard in that hearing, and fought for her right to be passed out of the committee and on to the floor. I notice that he is here today to fight for her confirmation on the floor. 
Based on the committee's review of the record, I believe that Judge Aiken is a good choice. In fact, when asked whether there were any so-called constitutional rights that existed independent of the Constitution itself, Judge Aiken replied `No, sir. The Constitution is one of the most elegantly written documents. The words of the Constitution are clear. It expresses the rights that are given. I find no need to look beyond those express words and the document itself.' 
This is precisely the type of answer I would expect of any Federal judicial nominee. Of course, sometimes people say things they do not mean. But I am willing to give this nominee as well as any nominee the benefit of the doubt unless the evidence is overwhelmingly to the contrary. 
It is also significant to me that when asked what judge or justice has most influenced her thinking, she replied, `Justice Felix Frankfurter, because of his staunch adherence to the principle of judicial restraint and his reluctance to substitute the inclinations of the court for the express will of the legislature.' 
She has demonstrated to me that she understands the proper role of a Federal judge in our constitutional system. But more than that, it is important that a judge give more than lip service to principles of judicial restraint. Rather, a good judge will internalize and abide by those principles. I have no reason to believe that Judge Aiken will not do precisely that. 
Moreover, I do not think anyone seriously believes that Judge Aiken is not qualified to sit on the Federal bench. She is currently a judge on the Oregon circuit court. She attended the University of Oregon both for her undergraduate and juris doctorate degrees, and she received a master's degree from Rutgers University. Prior to her appointment to the bench, Judge Aiken 
practiced largely in the area of domestic relations law. She focused on child custody, foster care and family preservation cases. As anyone who has ever engaged in the practice of law knows, domestic disputes of this type truly require the wisdom of Solomon. 
In sum, I join Senators Smith and Wyden in supporting this nominee and once again ask the White House to work with, not against, the Senate in seeking out qualified individuals to serve on the Federal bench. 
With that, I notice my colleague, the ranking member on the committee, is here, and I will yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield to me for just a couple of additional remarks, and then I will yield to the distinguished Senator? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I feel I should make a few more remarks here, because I would not want this day to pass without mentioning Barry Silverman, who is one of the judges nominated for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and, of course, Richard Wayne Story, who was nominated for the Northern District of Georgia. Each of these nominees has the support of his home State Senators and each is well qualified for the Federal bench. So I want our colleagues to know that. 
Barry Glen Silverman was nominated for United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. He graduated summa cum laude in 1973 and got his J.D. in 1976 from Arizona State University. He is currently a U.S. Magistrate Judge in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. He has served as a Superior Court Judge both in Phoenix and Maricopa Counties, and he has also served as a prosecutor in Phoenix. 
He is the recipient of numerous awards including the 1991 Henry Stevens Award, which recognizes trial judges who represent the finer qualities of the judiciary. 
His nomination is not the least bit controversial, and he is supported by Senators Kyl and McCain. 
Richard Wayne Story has been nominated for United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. He received his B.A. in English from LaGrange College in 1975, and his J.D. from the University of Georgia in 1978. He is presently a sitting judge on the Superior Court bench in the Northeastern Circuit of Dawson and Hall Counties of Georgia. Prior to that he served as Juvenile Court Judge and as a part-time Special Assistant Attorney General for the State of Georgia. He was also a member of the firm of Kenyon, Hulsey, and Oliver for eight years. 
His nomination is not controversial, and he is supported by Senator Coverdell and Senator Cleland. 
So I hope that our colleagues will vote for all three of these judges. I think all three of them deserve support. We will move on from there. 
I yield to my colleague from Oregon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 10 minutes. How much time is remaining to both Senators? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield such time as the Senator needs, but at least 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for his kind remarks. They mean a lot to me because this job of being Judiciary chairman isn't all a piece of cake, as anybody can see. I personally appreciate those kind remarks. 
I want to compliment both of the Senators from Oregon for their active work on behalf of Judge Aiken. Without their work, I don't think Judge Aiken would be here today. I personally express that so that she will fully appreciate how hard the Senators from Oregon have worked. They have certainly, along with Judge Aiken, convinced me that she will make an excellent judge. I intend to fully support her. I hope my colleagues will also. 
Mr. ASHCROFT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to respond briefly to the comments of Senator Ashcroft on Judge Aiken's record. Senator Smith, I believe, has already amply defended Judge Aiken's record. I want to add a few comments of my own here, if I can. My colleagues, Senators Enzi and Ashcroft, have rightly criticized Judge Aiken for her ruling in the Dye case, in which during her first month on the circuit court bench, she gave the defendant what appears to be a fairly light sentence for the molestation of a 5-year-old girl. I agree with the criticisms of Judge Aiken's decision. She did indicate that she imposed the sentence in order for the defendant to receive treatment. In her opinion, treatment was the only way she could prevent this individual from repeating his heinous crimes. 
I seriously question the wisdom of her decision. But to her credit, Judge Aiken stated that if she had to do it all over again, she would have imposed a lengthy prison term. She recognized her mistake and she learned from it, and it was made in the early tenure of her judgeship. 
A review of her record since the Dye case suggests that she has more than learned from this original error. I know, too, that some are troubled by Judge Aiken's comment to a young, violent criminal that he was `a victim of the community's lack of intervention.' Well, what often gets lost in this criticism is that Judge Aiken also sentenced this defendant who had robbed people and threatened to kill them to the maximum range of penalties allowed under the Oregon guidelines. Given Judge Aiken's background in family law, her comment was not as unreasonable as some might think it seems. 
So the question for the Senate is whether, in the face of a relatively clear record as a State judge and the overwhelming bipartisan support of the Oregon delegation, the Oregon bar, her colleagues on the bench, and the people of Oregon, the Senate should defeat this nominee because of one or two errant cases. I have to say, I think not. I hope none of us are going to be judged on one or two mistakes we might have made in our lifetimes. To the extent that these cases raise questions--and they do raise serious questions--I do not believe a strong case can be made that Judge Aiken has a record of exceeding the proper bounds of judicial authority or that she will attempt to legislate from the bench or act otherwise as an activist judge. Accordingly, I will vote to confirm Judge Aiken, and I urge all of my colleagues to do the same. 
Now, in addition, I have had personal conversations with Judge Aiken, and I have to say she has impressed me greatly as someone who I think will act very properly on the Federal district bench. I agree with both Senators that she is going to be a very strong anticrime judge. I think her record shows that, in spite of these what some call `discrepancies,' to which I think legitimate criticism can be lodged, I don't know of many judges who have been on the bench very long that somebody can't find some criticism to lodge against them, because judges sit in judgment. They have to `split the baby,' so to speak, and make some decisions. In almost every case, somebody is going to be unhappy with their decision. If a judge ever shows leniency in this day and age, they are going to be subject to criticism by some. If the judge is too tough, that judge is going to get criticism from others. One side or the other is always going to find some fault. 
But in this particular case, she more than adequately explains the situation. In the first case, the Dye case, she admitted that if she had to do it all over again, she would have decided the case differently. Keep in mind that all people in the early tenures of their work life generally stumble and make a few mistakes. That is what happened here. But you have to judge these judges, and all nominees who may not be judges, on the totality of their lives' work and the totality of what they have done and not just defeat judges on the basis of one or two things with which we might legitimately disagree, especially when the judge has indicated a willingness to change and do things differently in the future. 
There is no doubt that the judge erred in the Dye case. It was wrong to sentence the criminal to only 3 months in prison. But you have to Judge Aiken on her whole record. She has more than adequately explained that, as far as I am concerned. 
We are definitely going to have some votes on judges this year where there will be real, legitimate reasons to oppose them, and the administration knows that. They understand that when they send some of these folks up, there might be opposition. But I don't think the opposition is justified against this judge. On the other hand, I respect my colleagues who feel otherwise, but I hope that our fellow Senators will vote for Judge Aiken.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at 2:15 p.m. today, the Senate proceed to executive session and a vote on the confirmation of the nomination of Calendar No. 454, Ann Aiken. I further ask consent that immediately following that vote, Executive Calendar Nos. 486 and 488 be confirmed and the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table and the President be notified of the Senate's action and the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All Senators should now be aware that there will be one rollcall vote beginning at 2:15 this afternoon. In order to accommodate a number of Senators' schedules, the remaining nominations will be confirmed without a rollcall vote. I thank all Members for their cooperation in this matter. 
With that, Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the Aikens nomination. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, eight years ago, Congress passed and President Bush signed the landmark Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. I was proud to have helped lead the effort, and I am proud of what our states have been able to accomplish since its implementation. 
But, it is also clear that we must do more to help families. In my home state of Utah, more than half of the children under age 6 have either their only parent or both parents in the workforce. 
The `Child Care Connection,' a four-county resource and referral program, reported last year that there were five major Salt Lake area zip codes that had zero openings for infants. 
Utah child care officials have reported that there are too few slots generally for infants and toddlers and for special needs children. 
It is my pleasure to be here today with Senators Chafee, Snowe, Roberts, and Specter, each of whom has a long track record of involvement in child care issues. We believe that we have developed a comprehensive, yet realistic, child care proposal that will augment the ability of the child care block grant to serve families in each state. 
Of particular note, this proposal recognizes the choice that many families make to have one parent remain at home as primary caregiver. As important as it is to assist low- and middle-income families with necessary out-of-home child care expenses--and our proposal will increase the Dependent Care Tax Credit for such families--it is also important for us to realize the value of a parent in the home and that the sacrifice of a second income is also a child care expense. 
Additionally, our proposal will not create major new programs in need of permanent funding. We do not intend to spend federal dollars on bigger bureaucracy in the name of expanding child care. We want available resources to be put directly in the hands of parents through tax credits and in the hands of states to address specific gaps in availability and enforcement of health and safety standards. 
Our bill takes a very balanced approach to the issues of affordability, availability, and quality. 
Child care costs, of course, are a significant part of a family budget. The average cost of child care has been estimated at over $4000 per child. This is a substantial increase from the $3000 average it was when we enacted the Child Care and Development Block Grant eight years ago. Clearly, low- and middle-income taxpayers devote a larger share of their earnings to child care. 
And, at a time when we are trying to move families off of public assistance and into employment, child care has to be a key element of transitional support. 
Our bill increases the Dependent Care Tax Credit (DCTC) for working parents. Our bill raises the maximum credit from 30 percent to 50 percent. And, it raises the maximum income level for the maximum credit from $10,000 to $30,000. No change is made in the maximum allowable expenses of $2400 for one child and $4800 for two or more children. 
Thus, a family in St. George, Utah, earning $30,000, with two children, would receive a tax credit of $2400. Under current law, this family's credit would be $960. 
Both our bill and the proposal made by the Clinton administration begin to gradually reduce the percentage of the credit at $30,000, but the `Caring for Children Act' reduces the credit at a slower rate. Thus, families earning between $30,000 and $75,000 will receive a bigger tax benefit than under either President Clinton's proposal or current law. 
We can afford to provide larger benefits for this income group because we have recommended a phase-out of the credit entirely for families with incomes of $105,000 or more. Under current law, there is no income limit for eligibility for the DCTC. This is one tax credit that wealthy taxpayers do not need. 
But, our bill, the `Caring for Children Act,' goes one step further. The bill I have developed along with Senators Chafee, Snowe, Roberts, and Specter would, for 
the first time, recognize child care provided by a parent. 
Our bill would extend eligibility for the Dependent Care Tax Credit to families with young children in which one parent remains at home as caregiver. How would this work? The bill would impute monthly child care expenses of $150 to families with children age 3 and under. For example, a family in Morgan, Utah, earning $30,000 a year and having one or more children under age 3, would receive a $900 tax credit. It works this way: 50% credit $150 monthly imputed expenses 12 months = $900. 
I would like to see this tax break be even more generous. I will work toward that end. But, given our budget realities, this ground-breaking extension of the DCTC is feasible. And, I believe it is an essential component of the `Caring for Children Act.' 
It is high time we recognize the value of stay-at-home parents. This tax credit in no way offsets their work or their monetary sacrifices; but it does, at last, give a mother or father in the home standing in our tax code. It transforms the Dependent Care Tax Credit from an employment-based credit to a child-based credit. 
These two changes to the DCTC will put money--their own money I might add--back into the pockets of America's families. 
The `Caring for Children Act' also deals with the issue of availability. As I mentioned, there are areas where child care--particularly infant care, after school care, or care for special needs children--is tough to find. The substantial increase we are recommending for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) will provide states with the ability to address shortages as well as to increase support to low-income families. 
President Clinton has recommended solving the availability problem by creating two new programs, one for after school care and one geared to early childhood. While I can appreciate the President's concern that there may be few choices out there for parents who depend on out-of-home care, I do not believe it makes sense to create new programs when the CCDBG already permits such programs. I think the answer is not to second guess how the states have chosen to allocate their scarce resources under the block grant, but rather to give the states some additional resources so that they can better meet their own priorities. 
We are proposing a $5 billion increase in the CCDBG over five years. These additional resources will give states much more flexibility in their planning. States will be able to provide subsidies for a greater number of the eligible population; they will be able to finance child care programs in underserved areas of the state; they will be able to address particular shortages. And, they will be able to better enforce critical health and safety standards. 
I am a firm believer that states should be able to set their own rules and regulations for child care providers. I do not believe that the federal government can or should interfere with child care affordability in our various states by setting national standards that are unrealistic. Moreover, to the extent that child care standards reflect the values as well as the economic conditions of any given state, the federal government has no business micromanaging them. 
But, I also believe that states that participate in the block grant program--and that would be all of them--have an obligation to ensure that children are in safe and healthy environments. And, they have an obligation to see that such standards are adequately enforced. A sanitary standard is no standard at all if it is unenforced. 
It may not matter where you have your car washed, but it absolutely matters who is taking care of your child. 
Therefore, the `Caring for Children Act' puts some teeth into the requirement for inspections under the block grant. A state that inspects a threshold number of facilities subject to inspection will be eligible for a 10 percent bonus. After the second year, a state failing to inspect a minimum number of child care sites will be subject to a 10 percent penalty. 
Additionally, our bill authorizes $50 million a year for HHS to undertake two important quality enhancing activities. First, more information about child care can be made available to parents. Consumer information about automobiles, credit cards, and well-baby care are available. I believe parents would welcome more information on what to look for in a child care center or family-based care setting. I also believe that parents are the best form of accountability in child care. Second, to assist providers and child care workers enhance the quality of their services, the bill would enable HHS to award grants for the development of a technology infrastructure for distance learning. 
Many child care providers are in rural areas. Traditional training in the form of workshops and college classes are not practical. Programs for child care providers that could be developed and made available through distance learning, however, could prove a viable alternative as well as a valued help. My home state of Utah, I might add, has been a leader in the distance learning arena. I have no doubt that such a format would be eagerly received in my state. 
The `Caring for Children Act' contains several other provisions of interest. In order to test the effectiveness of small business consortia as employer-based child care providers, the bill authorizes $60 million over three years for demonstration grants. 
To increase the awareness of the existing Dependent Care Assistance Program (DCAP), a tax provision that permits employees to authorize their employers to withhold up to $5000 of the employee's salary in a DCAP account for child care expenses to be paid by the employer, the `Caring for Children Act' authorizes $1 million a year for the next five years to the Secretary of Labor to conduct outreach to both employers and employees about this program and its benefits. 
Finally, the bill would require that child care facilities located in federal buildings for federal employees be held to the same quality standards that apply to child care programs in the state in which the federal facility is located. 
I believe the measure we have introduced is a balanced approach. It does not depend entirely on the tax code to address child care issues, nor does it depend solely on federal spending. 
It does not concentrate benefits on only one income group. The DCTC expansion is geared particularly to assist the middle class. The increase in the CCDBG is targeted to subsidies for low-income families. 
It recognizes that we have to make an investment in our children, but it does not propose new federal mandatory spending programs that can become wildly expensive. 
Our bill gives careful attention to each of the three cornerstones of child care: affordability, availability, and quality. 
And, for the first time, federal child care legislation will not ignore those families who choose to forego one income to have a parent remain at home. 
I want to say again that I am proud to sponsor this bill with my colleagues, Senators Chafee, Snowe, Roberts, and Specter. I urge other senators to join us in this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this morning the Senate will proceed to executive session to begin 2 hours of debate on the nomination of three judges on the Executive Calendar: Ann L. Aiken to be United States District Judge for the District of Oregon, Barry G. Silverman to be United States District Judge for the Ninth Circuit, and Richard W. Story to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia. 
Following that debate, as previously ordered, the Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. for the weekly policy luncheons to meet. 
As ordered, at 2:15 p.m. the Senate will begin a series of rollcall votes on the aforementioned judicial nominations. 
Following those votes, the Senate will be in a period for the transaction of morning business with Senator Coverdell or his designee in control of the first 90 minutes, and Senator Daschle or his designee in control of the next 90 minutes. 
As a reminder to all Members, the Senate will not be in session on Friday, and no rollcall votes will occur on Monday, February 2nd. 
So I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19980127</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, S. Res. 169, commemorates the `Immortal Four Chaplains' whose brave sacrifice is an inspiring story of personal honor and patriotism. Their heroism of 55 years ago stands today as an eloquent and enduring example of service, fellowship, and love. 
On February 3, 1943, a German U-boat torpedoed the American transport ship Dorchester, sinking it off the coast of Greenland. Among the nearly 1,000 American soldiers aboard the Dorchester were four chaplains whose selfless acts of courage have left a distinguished legacy, a legacy that we hope to honor and remember in this resolution. 
Survivors' accounts describing the short 18 minutes that the ship was sinking report that Lieutenant George L. Fox, a Methodist minister; Lieutenant Alexander D. Goode, a Jewish rabbi; Lieutenant John P. Washington, a Catholic priest; and Lieutenant Clark V. Poling, a Dutch Reformed minister worked to alert the soldiers to the danger and direct them to safety. They distributed life jackets until no more were available. Then, these four Army chaplains removed their own life jackets and gave them to four soldiers. 
One soldier witnessed a chaplain giving his gloves to a panicked GI shivering in the Arctic air to prevent the young man from returning to his cabin for his own. The chaplains helped 230 men to safety and then chose to remain to calm and comfort the nearly 700 who went down with the ship. True to their faiths and to their fellowmen until the end, they were last seen, arms linked in prayer, on the hull of the ship. 
A postage stamp in 1948 entitled `Interfaith in Action" commemorated their bravery. Congress passed a concurrent resolution in 1957 to honor these chaplains and those who died with them. Presidents Truman and Eisenhower also issued proclamations calling for national participation in memorial services throughout the country. The American Legion holds an annual commemorative service on the first Sunday of February. 
This coming Sunday, February 3, 1998 marks the 55th anniversary of an episode in our history that is tragic yet uplifting. Let us remember these acts of bravery which were not bound or limited by creed or rank. Their timeless sacrifice reminds us that we should not be divided by our differences, but that we should face the travails of our nation together, with faith and strength. 
I urge the speedy passage of S. Res. 169. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971113</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971113</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as we complete the 1st session of the 105th Congress, I would like to update my colleagues on how we have advanced the judicial confirmation process. Let me say from the outset that I believe one of the Senate's most important functions is its constitutional authority, and responsibility, to render advice and consent to the President in his nomination of Federal judges. 
Unique in our system of Government, Federal judges serve for life, and are entirely unaccountable to the electorate. When a single Federal judge is confirmed by the U.S. Senate, he or she will exercise enormous power over our people, our States, and our public and private institutions, for years and years to come. As the scope of Federal law--both statutory and constitutional--has exploded to cover virtually all areas of our lives and culture, and as our society has become more litigious, Federal judges have come to wield vast power over countless aspects of our everyday lives. Moreover, the troubling trend toward increased judicial activism has only enhanced the power that judges exercise in our society. 
As a result, I have dedicated considerable time and energy to thoroughly review each nominee in an effort to ensure that only individuals of the highest caliber are permitted to serve on the Federal bench. At the same time, of course, I am cognizant that as President, Mr. Clinton is entitled to some deference in his choice of Federal judges, and I have sought to respect the President's decisions. 
To date, the Senate has confirmed 239 Clinton judges, of which 35 were confirmed this year alone. Those 239 judges represent nearly one-third of the entire Federal bench. We currently have nine judges pending on the Senate floor. If those judges are confirmed, as I hope they will be, the Senate will have confirmed 44 Federal judges during this session. 
I believe that the Judiciary Committee has been proceeding fairly and at reasonable pace. Indeed, I strongly believe that we must do our best to reduce the approximately 80 vacancies that currently exist in the Federal courts. There are, however, limits to what the Judiciary Committee can do. We cannot, no matter how hard we may try, confirm judges who have yet to be nominated. Of the 43 nominees currently pending, 9 were received in the last month. 
And 13 of those pending nominees are individuals simply renominated from last Congress. So, of those 80 vacancies, 45 are, in effect, a result of the administration's inaction. Forty-three total pending - 8 incomplete paperwork = 35 real nominees; 80 vacancies - 35 real nominees = 45 White House inaction. 
Moreover, of the 79 total judicial nominees sent forward to the committee this year, 47 have now had hearings. Of the 47 nominees that have had hearings, 41 have been reported out of committee. Of those 41 nominees reported out of committee, 35 have been confirmed, and 9 are pending on the Senate floor. 
The committee has moved noncontroversial nominees at a relatively speedy pace. In fact, I pledge that when the administration sends us qualified, noncontroversial, nominees, they will be processed fairly and promptly. Indeed, in the last few months, the administration has finally begun sending us nominees that I have for the most part found to be quite acceptable. Take Ms. Frank Hull, for example. She was nominated for a very important seat on the Eleventh Circuit. Ms. Hull was nominated June 18, had her hearing July 22, and was confirmed on September 4. This is a remarkably fast turnaround. 
Or consider Mr. Alan Gold from Florida. He was nominated in February. We completed his paperwork and our review in March and April, he had a hearing shortly thereafter in May, and he was reported out of committee and confirmed before the July 4 recess. 
Two other good examples are Ms. Janet Hall from Connecticut and Mr. Barry Silverman, of Arizona. Ms. Hall was nominated to the U.S. District Court June 5, 1997, the committee had a hearing on July 22, and she was confirmed September 11. Mr. Silverman may have even set the record: The committee received his nomination on November 8, held his hearing on November 12, and reported him out of committee today. 
Clearly, when it comes to new, noncontroversial nominees, we are, in fact, proceeding with extraordinary speed and diligence. 
More controversial nominees, however, take more time. Indeed, many of the individuals renominated from the 104th Congress have proven difficult to move for a variety of reasons. Unfortunately, of the 79 individuals nominated this Congress, only 56 have been new; the other 23 are individuals who were previously nominated, but have been controversial and proven difficult to move through the committee--much less to confirm. When the administration simply sends back nominees who had problems last Congress, it takes much more time, and is much more difficult, to process them. It is worth pointing out that there was, in virtually every instance, a reason why the Senate confirmed 239 other Clinton nominees but not those 23. And, if all we are left with are judges whom we are not ready to move, I will not compromise our advice and consent function simply because the White House has not sent us qualified nominees. As I said at the outset, the Senate's advice and consent function should not be reduced to a mere numbers game. The confirmation of an individual to serve for life as a Federal judge is a serious matter, and should be treated as such. In fact, we have sat down with the White House and Justice Department and explained the problems with each nominee, and they understand perfectly well why those nominees have not moved. 
Many inaccurate accounts have been written charging that this body has unreasonably held up judicial nominations. That claim is simply not true. As of today, we have processed 47 nominees--35 confirmed, 9 on the floor, 2 are pending in committee and 1 withdrawn. Now, not all of these judges have yet been confirmed, but I expect that they will be confirmed fairly promptly. Assuming most of these nominees 
are confirmed, I think you will see that our efforts compare quite favorably to prior Congresses, in terms of the number of judges confirmed at this point in the 1st session of a Congress. As of today, we have confirmed 35 judges. If we confirm the 9 judges pending on the Senate floor, we will have confirmed 44 Federal judges this year. 
Republicans confirmed 55 judges as of the end of the 1st session in the 104th Congress. Indeed, the Democrats confirmed only 28 judges for President Clinton at the end of the 1st session back in the 103d Congress. Although the Democrats confirmed 57 judges as of the end of the first session back in 1991, for a Republican President, they confirmed only 15 judges in 1989 and 42 judges in 1987, both for Republican Presidents. So the plain fact is that we are right on track with, if not ahead of, previous Congresses. And this is particularly significant given the fact that we have more authorized judgeships today than under Presidents Bush or Reagan. In fact, there are more sitting judges today than there were throughout virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations. As of today, there are 763 active Federal judges. At this point in the 101st and 102d Congresses, by contrast, when a Democrat-controlled Senate was processing President Bush's nominees, there were only 711 and 716 active judges, respectively. 
The Democrat Senate actually left a higher vacancy rate under President Bush: Just compare today's 80 vacancies to the vacancies under a Democratic Senate during President Bush's Presidency. In May 1991 there were 148 vacancies, and in May 1992 there were 117 vacancies. I find it interesting that, at that time, I don't recall a single news article or floor speech on judicial vacancies. So, in short, I think it is quite unfair, and frankly inaccurate, to report that the Republican Congress has created a vacancy crisis in our courts. 
It is plain then, that current vacancies not result of Republican stall. First, even the Administrative Office of the Courts has concluded that most of the blame for the current vacancies falls on the White House, not the Senate. It has taken President Clinton an average of 534 days to name nominees currently pending, for a vacancy--well over the time it has historically taken the White House. It has taken the Senate an average of only 97 days to confirm a judge once the President finally nominates him or her, and in recent months we've been moving noncontroversial nominees at a remarkably fast pace. As a result, with the exception of nominees whose completed paperwork we have not yet received, the White House has only sent up 43 nominees for these 80 vacant seats--of which 13 were received just prior to the Senate going into recess. Forty-five of those seats are, in effect vacant because of White House inaction. 
Second, those vacancies were caused by a record level of resignations after the elections. During President Clinton's first 4 years, we confirmed 204 judges--a near record high, and nearly one quarter of the entire Federal bench. By the close of last Congress, there were only 65 vacancies. This is virtually identical to the number of vacancies under Senator Biden in the previous Congress. The Department of Justice itself stated that this level of vacancies represents virtual full employment in the Federal courts. So last Congress we were 
more than fair to President Clinton and his judicial nominees. We reduced the vacancy level to a level which the Justice Department itself considers virtual full employment. But after the election last fall, 37 judges either resigned or took senior status--a dramatic number in such a short period. This is what has led to the current level of 80 vacancies. 
Many Judicial `Emergencies' are far from that: I would also like to clarify a term that is now bandied about with little understanding of what it really means a judicial `emergency' is simply a seat that has been unfilled for a certain period of time. In reality, though, many of those seats are far from emergencies. Indeed, of the 29 judicial emergencies, the administration has not even put up a nominee for 7 of those seats. As for the others, I think you will find that a number of the relevant districts do not in fact have an overly burdensome caseload. 
And, keep in mind that the Clinton administration is on record as having stated that 63 vacancies--a vacancy rate of just over 7 percent--is considered virtual full employment of the Federal judiciary. The current vacancy rate is only 9 percent. How can a 2 percent rise in the vacancy rate--from 7 to 9 percent--convert full employment into a crisis? 
It can't. The reality is that the Senate has moved carefully and deliberately to discharge its constitutional obligation to render advice and consent to the President as he makes his appointments. I am satisfied by the committee's work this session, and look forward to working with the administration in the coming months to identify qualified candidates to elevate to the Federal bench. 
I yield the floor I thank the Chair.  
Mr. ROBB addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971113</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise in support of passage of H.R. 2265, The No Electronic Theft [NET] Act. This bill plugs the `LaMacchia Loophole' in criminal copyright enforcement. 
Current sec. 506(a) of the Copyright Act contains criminal penalties for willful copyright infringement for `commercial advantage or private financial gain.' In U.S. versus LaMacchia, 871 F. Supp. 535 (D. Mass. 1994), defendant, a graduate student attending MIT, encouraged lawful purchasers of copyrighted computer games and other software to upload these works via a special password to an electronic bulletin board on the Internet. The defendant then transferred the works to another electronic address and urged other persons with access to a second password to download the materials for personal use without authorization by or compensation to the copyright owners. Because the defendant never benefited financially from any of these transactions, the current criminal copyright infringement could not be used. Furthermore, the court held that neither could the federal wire fraud statute, since Congress never envisioned protecting copyrights under that statute. For persons with few assets, civil liability is not an adequate deterrent. 
It is obvious that great harm could be done to copyright owners if this practice were to become widespread. Significant losses to copyright holders would undermine the monetary incentive to create which is recognized in our Constitution. Mr. President, I believe that willful, commercial-scale pirating of copyrighted works, even when the pirate receives no monetary reward, ought to be nipped in the bud. This bill does that. 
I will admit, Mr. President, that I initially had concerns about this bill. I was afraid that the language was so broad that the net could be cast too widely--pardon the pun--so that minor offenders or persons who honestly believed that they had a legitimate right to engage in the behavior prohibited by the bill would be swept in. What of the educator who feels that his or her action is a fair use of the copyrighted work? Although the bill is not failsafe, because of the severity of the potential losses to copyright owners from widespread LaMacchia-like behavior and the little time remaining in this session, on balance I was persuaded to support the bill. 
I place great store by the `willfulness' requirement in the bill. Although there is on-going debate about what precisely is the `willfulness' standard in the Copyright Act--as the House Report records--I submit that in the LaMacchia context `willful' ought to mean the intent to violate a known legal duty. The Supreme Court has given the term `willful' that construction in numerous cases in the past 25 years, for example: U.S. versus Bishop, 412, U.S. 346 (1973); U.S. versus Pomponio, 429 U.S. 987 (1976); Cheek versus U.S., 498 U.S. 192 (1991); and Ratzlaf versus U.S., 510 U.S. 135 (1994). As Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, that is the interpretation that I give to this term. Otherwise, I would have objected and not allowed this bill to pass by unanimous consent. Under this standard, then, an educator who in good faith believes that he or she is 
engaging in a fair use of copyrighted material could not be prosecuted under the bill. 
I am also relying upon the good sense of prosecutors and judges. Again, the purpose of the bill is to prosecute commercial-scale pirates who do not have commercial advantage or private financial gain from their illegal activities. But if an over-zealous prosecutor should bring and win a case against a college prankster, I am confident that the judge would exercise the discretion that he or she may have under the Sentencing Guidelines to be lenient. If the practical effect of the bill turns out to be draconian, we may have to revisit the issue. 
In addition to my concern that the bill's scope might be too broad, I wanted to make sure that the language of the bill would not prejudice in any way the debate about the copyright liability of on-line and Internet service providers. Mr. President, there are good arguments on both sides of the issue, and I will shortly begin the process of bringing the parties together to try to obtain a mutually agree-upon solution to this problem. It is my understanding that representatives of the OSP/ISP community and the fair use community were consulted during the passage of the bill in the House. This tends to confirm my judgment that the bill was not intended to affect the OSP/ISP liability debate. 
Finally, Mr. President, I would like to point out two areas that are susceptible to interpretation mischief. First, the bill amends the term `financial gain' as used in the Copyright Act to include `receipt, or expectation of receipt, of anything of value, including receipt of other copyrighted works.' The intent of the change is to hold criminally liable those who do not receive or expect to receive money but who receive tangible value. It would be contrary to the intent of the provision, according to my understanding, if `anything of value' would be so broadly read as to include enhancement of reputation or value remote from the criminal act, such as a job promotion. 
Second, I am concerned about the interplay between criminal liability for `reproduction' in the bill and the commonly-held view that the loading of a computer program into random access memory [RAM] is a reproduction for purposes of the Copyright Act. Because most shrink-wrap licenses purport to make the purchaser of computer software a licensee and not an owner of his or her copy of the software, the ordinary purchaser of software may not be able to take advantage of the exemption provided by sec. 117, allowing the `owner' of a copy to reproduce the work in order to use it in his or her computer. 
Many shrink-wrap licenses limit the purchaser to making only a single backup copy of his or her software. Thus, under a literal reading of the bill, the ordinary purchaser of computer software who loaded the software enough times in the 180-day period to reach the more-than-$1,000 threshold may be a criminal. This is, of course, not the intent of the bill. Clearly, this kind of copying was not intended to be criminalized. 
Additionally, Congress has long recognized that it is necessary to make incidental copies of digital works in order to use them on computers. Programs or data must be transferred from a floppy disk to a hard disk or from a hard disk into RAM as a necessary step in their use. Modern operating systems swap data between RAM and hard disk to use the computer memory more efficiently. Given its purpose, it is not the intent of this bill to have the incidental copies made by the user of digital work be counted more than once in computing the total retail value of the infringing reproductions. 
As you can see, Mr. President, I do not believe this is the perfect bill, but it is a good bill that addresses a serious problem that has the potential of very soon undermining copyright in many works, not just computer software. I am confident that prosecutors and the courts will make their decisions with the purpose of the bill in mind--the elimination of willful, commercial-scale pirating of copyrighted works.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971113</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, perhaps the most important legacy this Congress can leave for future generations is implementation of a strong plan to curb tobacco use, and especially its use by children and teens. 
Quite simply, something needs to be done to get tobacco out of the hands of children--or perhaps more accurately, out of the lungs and mouths of children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19971113</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce, along with Senator Lieberman, the Fairness in Punitive Damages Awards Act. In general, this bill limits the amount of punitive damages that may be awarded in certain civil actions, primarily financial injury lawsuits, to three times the amount awarded to the claimant for economic loss or $250,000, whichever is greater. 
These are cases where the claims essentially arise from breach of contract or insurance `bad-faith' or fraud injuries. The punitive damages limitation provision also excludes awards in cases where death, loss of limb, bodily harm, or physical injury occur. It generally does not encompass products liability and physical harm tort cases--cases where supporters of punitive damage awards contend that exemplary damages are needed to deter reckless behavior. 
Thus, what sets this bill apart from previous measures is that it has been narrowly tailored to address concerns raised by the Administration and opponents of punitive damages limitations bills. We hope to attract bipartisan support because of the narrow scope of the bill, and, more significantly, because the bill addresses a major impediment to economic growth--runaway punitive damage awards, particularly in financial injury cases. 
It is beyond doubt that our civil justice system is being plagued by an epidemic of punitive damage awards. In recent testimony before the Judiciary Committee, former Assistant Attorney General Theodore Olson noted that throughout the 19th until the mid-20th century, punitive damages were quite rare. `For example, the highest punitive damages award affirmed on appeal in California through the 1950's was $10,000. But the punitive damage landscape began to change dramatically in the 1960's. California's record for punitive damage awards affirmed on appeal soared to $15 million in the 1980's, an increase of 1,500 fold in just 30 years.' In Alabama, according to Olson, an aggregate of only $409,000 in punitive damages had been affirmed on appeal during the period 1974-1978. The comparable total just 15 years later skyrocketed to $90 million. 
Indeed, punitive damage lawyers have largely succeeded in taking over the civil justice compensation system. In 1960, according to a Rand study, punitive damages accounted for just 2% of total damages in civil cases in San Francisco, California. Thirty years later, according to Rand, punitive damages accounted for an amazing 59% of all damages in financial injury cases, and an even more amazing 80% in Alabama. 
And the size of these awards is staggering and, I must add, irrational. Take the recent CSX Railroad case. Even though a federal probe found the railroad blameless in a tank car explosion on CSX owned tracks which caused relatively minor harm to some 20 
plaintiffs in Louisiana, a state jury awarded $2.3 million in compensatory and $2.5 billion in punitive damages against CSX. Although the Louisiana Supreme Court at least temporarily barred this irrational verdict--because under Louisiana law no verdict for damages may be made until all the underlying claims are decided--a far more common practice is for courts to halve or reduce the punitive portion of the award. Of course, half of $2.5 billion is still a staggering amount to pay for any private entity. From coffee spills at McDonald's to medical malpractice, in the words of Morton Kondracke in a recent article in Roll Call, `trial lawyers reap exorbitant profits by trolling for clients and convincing juries to sock it to supposedly deep-pocketed defendants. Consumers pay the bill as companies pass on their massive insurance premiums through higher prices.' 
Indeed, the very efficiency of the American market has been weakened by these trends. Certainly, increased litigation and unnecessarily large punitive damage awards have increased the price of doing business. Undoubtedly, these costs have been passed on to consumers and have led to a decrease in productivity and a rise in unemployment. This is supported by a fairly recent study done by Representative and law professor Tom Campbell and other scholars, under the aegis of Stanford University, which demonstrated that in jurisdictions that reform the civil liability process--including placing caps on punitive damages--productivity and employment rise. 
Furthermore, untenable jury verdicts create what Rand calls a `shadow effect' whereby verdicts totaling tens of billions of dollars send signals as to what other juries might do. Thousands of cases are settled, regardless of their merits, for fear of irrational verdicts. As a result of the shadow effect, consumers nationwide have been adversely affected through the withdrawal of products, producers, services, and service providers from the marketplace, and from excessive liability costs passed on to consumers through higher prices. 
But the worst cost to our society is the delegitimization of the judicial process as a means of dispute resolution. Litigation today is often seen as an unpredictable `crap shoot,' where awards are rendered--not upon justice--but upon envy (who has the `deep pockets') or upon blatant emotionalism. So why not sue? Why not spin the wheel? Passage of this bill will help to ameliorate this misconception and restore faith in our civil justice system--which I believe is fundamentally sound. 
Another reason for bipartisan support for this bill, one that I anticipate will attract many of our colleagues to the bill, is that we have addressed specific concerns which the Administration has expressed about previous bills. You may recall that last year when President Clinton vetoed the products liability bill, he claimed that the bill would protect drunk drivers and terrorists. Our bill will not apply to any case where the injury was caused by a person who was committing a crime of violence, an act of terrorism, a hate crime, a felony sexual offense, or that occurred when the defendant was under the influence of alcohol or drugs. These exceptions, combined with the bill's qualification that excludes cases where an individual has suffered a permanent physical injury or impairment, will ensure that this bill will not limit punitive damages in cases where such egregious conduct has occurred or where a serious injury has been inflicted. 
Finally, we have included in the bill a provision specifically designed to protect small businesses, which form the backbone of Utah's and our country's economy. Excessive, unpredictable, and often arbitrary punitive damage awards jeopardize the financial well-being of many individuals and companies, particularly the Nation's small businesses. Under this bill, if the claim for damages is against an individual whose net worth is less than $500,000 or against a business with less than 25 full-time employees, then punitive damages are limited to the lesser of 3 times the economic loss or $250,000. 
Establishing a rule of proportionality between the amount of punitive damages awarded and the amount of economic damages would be fair to both plaintiffs and defendants. In addition, we will take a step towards resolving the constitutional objection, raised by the United States Supreme Court last year in BMW of North America v. Gore, to punitive damages that are grossly excessive in relation to the harm suffered. 
Mr. President, we must restore rationality, certainty, and fairness to the award of punitive damages. This bill is an important step in that direction. I urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring this legislation and encourage the Senate to act expeditiously on this important bill. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the entire text of the bill be placed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to urge my colleagues to support S. 493, the Wireless Telephone Protection Act. This important bill will close a glaring gap in the protection afforded by federal law to cellular telephone communications. 
Law enforcement is alarmed by the increasingly prevalent practice of `cloning' cellular phones. Essentially, criminals operating scanners from the roadside or from buildings near urban freeways, copy identifying numbers for cellular phones. Using the data they obtain, these criminals alter other phones to access the accounts tied to the phone whose data was scanned, thus creating so-called `clone phones'. They then either sell these phones, or use the clone phones themselves for criminal purposes. These phones are used for several weeks or months, until the legitimate customer notices the fraud when he or she gets the bill for phone service accessed by the clone phone. 
The effects of these criminal schemes are twofold. First, this crime steals cellular service from the phone companies, which typically credit legitimate customers' accounts when alerted to the fraud. Second, the use of clone phones masks other criminal conduct by making criminal's calls difficult, if not impossible, to trace. S. 493, sponsored by Senator Kyl, helps close this gap in the law by making it a federal crime to own or use the software or hardware needed to clone cell phones. 
I also urge my colleagues to support an amendment to this bill, to ensure the confiscation of the equipment used to violate this law, and commit other frauds related to access devices. Presently, persons convicted of committing access device fraud under section 1029 of title 18 forfeit to the government the proceeds of their crime. However, there is no provision ensuring that the computers, hardware, software, and other equipment used to commit the crime is forfeited, as well. My amendment to this bill corrects this. 
My amendment includes in the penalties for a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1029, the forfeiture of any personal property used to commit, facilitate, or promote the commission of the violation. I note for my colleagues that my amendment only addresses criminal forfeiture, so there must be a conviction for the assets to be seized. Second, my amendment only permits the forfeiture of personal property used to commit the offense--mainly, equipment. Houses, other buildings, or land could not be subject to forfeiture under this provision. 
Mr. President, it is important that we close the gaps in the law that permit criminals to brazenly sell and use equipment to steal cellular phone service and evade law enforcement. It is equally important to get this equipment off the streets. I urge my colleagues to support my amendment and the underlying bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I was very pleased that the Senate has acted on S. 1454 and want to commend Senators Chafee, Warner, Baucus, and Bond for coming up with this extension bill for the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act [ISTEA]. Despite the fact that this temporary extension of ISTEA is just that--temporary--and obviously not a preferred way of doing business, I welcome it. I join in urging the House of Representatives to take it up and pass it. It will provide a modicum of certainty for the States given that we were unable to pass S. 1173, the 6-year reauthorization of ISTEA. 
We all know that ISTEA is an essential piece of legislation. It is precisely because of its great importance and significance to every State that it generates controversy. Among the many controversial issues associated with the reauthorization are certain labor provisions, safety and environmental concerns, and the always difficult issue of the distribution of highway funding. 
Believe me, I am well aware of how difficult it is to build majorities--and, in the case of ISTEA, a super-majority--on controversial legislation. 
Let me say unequivocally for the record that I support the 6-year authorization measure that Senator Chafee and the other members of the Environment and Public Works Committee brought to the Senate floor last month. Though it would be hard to imagine any transportation funding bill being 100 percent perfect from the standpoint of any one State, this bill was a solid bill and one I was pleased to support. In fact, I voted for this bill four times in the form of four cloture votes. 
But, Senator Chafee, despite his best efforts, was not allowed to move this bill. Unfortunately, as we all know, ISTEA fell victim to the efforts of those on the other side of the aisle to force the Senate to act on another piece of legislation; namely, campaign finance reform. 
Well, Mr. President, I am here to tell you that Utahns are indeed interested in campaign finance reform. But, at the moment, with numerous road construction projects underway, and facing a 2002 deadline for the Winter Olympic Games, they are equally if not more interested in ISTEA. 
The people of every State in the Union are going to pay dearly for the filibuster waged against ISTEA for the sake of campaign finance reform. They will be paying for it with bad roads, unrepaired bridges, and unimproved mass transit. They are going to pay for it with delays in making the necessary improvements. 
The Environment and Public Works Committee did its job. Senator Lott did his job in calling the bill up for debate. But, it takes 60 votes to cut off a filibuster and pass a bill. We tried four times. 
I am not enthusiastic about this short-term bill. It is a far cry from what we should have done earlier and what I hope we will do at our earliest opportunity next year. 
But, we have to be realistic about where we are today. And we have to face the reality that the 6-year ISTEA reauthoritzation bill did not pass this year. Under such circumstances, I think that the majority leader would have been entirely justified in not bringing up and facilitating the passage of the short-term extension. He could easily say to Senators that we should stew in our own juice. 
So as a Senator from a State severely affected by the failure to move ahead on ISTEA, I appreciate that he took the high road. The short-term bill will at least relieve the vulnerable position States would be in under no ISTEA authority at all. 
But, I want the people of Utah to know that I will be working hard in the months ahead to support the Senator from Rhode Island and the Senator from Montana in the effort to get the 6-year ISTEA bill passed in the Senate and into conference with the House.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I wanted to take this brief opportunity to commend Chairman Jeffords for a job well done--for producing a bill which will dramatically improve the way the Food and Drug Administration does business as we move into the 21st century. 
That has been one of my top priorities during my service in the Senate. I am proud that we are having the opportunity today to vote on this historic legislation which will have so many benefits for my State of Utah. 
Utah is the home to over 100 medical device manufacturers, and several pharmaceutical manufacturers as well. We also are the Nation's leading producer of dietary supplements. 
The Utah Life Sciences Industries Association, the leading trade association for Utah device and drug manufacturers, has worked closely with the Congress in formulating this legislation, which will have many positive effects for Utah. 
On behalf of our Utah drug and device manufacturers, let me thank you Chairman Jeffords, and our colleague in the House, Chairman Tom Bliley, for producing a bill which has encouraged the FDA to work in a more collaborative manner and to get the job done, to get it done professionally and expeditiously, without all the bureaucratic hassles we have experienced in the past. 
And on behalf of the dietary supplement manufacturers, and most importantly the 100 million or so consumers--most of whom seem to have called our offices in the last few weeks--let me thank you for making sure that the bill does not undo the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act in any way and that dietary supplements will remain what they are, food products, not drugs. 
Finally, I wish to thank all of the staff who worked literally through the night to make today's passage of the conference report for S. 830 possible. You can be proud of your work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19971109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I could not let this opportunity pass without recognizing the extraordinary contribution that Kay Holcombe has made during almost 25 years of Government service. 
Kay, who currently serves as the top health staffer on my good friend Representative John Dingell's Commerce Committee staff, has worked in a variety of positions in Government, including 6 years on Capitol Hill. Unfortunately for us, she plans to retire at the end of this session--while a fantastic opportunity for her, a regrettable loss the Congress and the Nation. 
I grew to know and appreciate Kay in 1984, when I was chairman of the Labor Committee and Kay joined our staff as an American Political Science Association congressional fellow. What Kay brought to that job was considerable. She is bright, witty, an expert on any issue she studies, and, above all, a true professional who puts good policy above politics. 
What I recall most vividly about Kay's period on the Labor Committee was her incredible ability to juggle lots of balls without dropping any of them. I could always count on her to get the job done, and, in fact, to do her job and the job of three others. 
I believe that Kay stands out among Government employees for the common sense she brings to any position and for an ability to bring consensus to the most difficult of issues. 
We are witnessing that ability today with passage of the conference report on the FDA reform bill, a bill which--quite simply--would not have been possible without Kay Holcombe. 
Her work on the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act also stands out in my mind, where Kay's knowledge and skills as a tactician helped us overcome many an impasse. And, I might add, she was, and I suspect is, the only staffer in the Capitol who understands many of the words we wrote into that act, the most memorable of which was `lyophilize'. 
Her background as a bench scientist at NIH, with subsequent experience in almost every one of the Public Health Service agencies, is a record of accomplishment and experience that cannot be matched on Capitol Hill. 
I, for one, will miss Kay's expertise sorely. And while I am thrilled for her as she enters this challenging new period in her life, and I am saddened at our loss here in the Congress. 
To Kay, her husband Frank, her daughter and son-in-law Anne and Tony, and her mother Ginny, I wish the best as the family enters a new period of life after Capitol Hill. I hope it will be happy indeed.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am proud to introduce a bill with my colleagues Senators Baucus, Mack, Abraham, Conrad, Lieberman, Boxer, Murkowski, Rockefeller, Feinstein, Murray, and Durbin to make the tax credit for increasing research activities permanent. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House by Representatives Nancy Johnson and Robert Matsui. 
The United States is a leader in the development of new technology. Historically, the R&E credit has played a major role in elevating this great Nation to such a significant and influential leadership position. The United States is currently ahead of the ever increasing competition in developing and marketing new products. With greater market challenges in the future, we will have to fight hard to maintain the U.S. lead in new technology and innovation. The role of the R&E tax credit will be increasingly important. 
But, we must recognize that scientific breakthroughs usually do not happen overnight. Research and development is a long-term, on-going process. The development of new products and services is the result of slow and steady effort and investment. It is for this reason that start and stop nature of the R&E credit hinders American progress in research. The tax credit is authorized only for a short time--which in science is practically no time at all--and then goes to the brink of expiration before Congress acts to extend it again. Permanent extension of the R&E tax credit would provide badly needed predictability. 
Our country provides very little in the way of direct funding for research. While we subsidize basic research to some extent through the National Science Foundation and other science agencies, the United States depends on the private sector to finance applied research to a very substantial degree. This paradigm has worked well. Government does not make decisions about what research to fund or make judgments about what sectors look promising. Yet, risk-taking, particularly in fields such as pharmaceuticals where the cost of developing just one new drug can reach into the hundreds of millions of dollars, is an activity that we encourage with the R&E tax credit. 
Without the R&E tax credit, American industry is put at a tremendous disadvantage relative to foreign competitors whose governments provide direct subsidies for research. We simply must not let American leadership in science and technology lapse. 
There are enormous benefits from research. Additional investment in research yields new jobs--in some cases entire new industries-- strengthens our international position, and often results in an enhanced quality of life for consumers. Simply put, the tax credit is an investment for economic growth and the creation of new jobs. 
Mr. President, my home state of Utah is home to many innovative companies that invest a significant percentage of their revenue in research and development activities. Scattered across the Wasatch front is a large stretch of software and computer engineering firms. This area is second only to California's Silicon Valley as a thriving high technology commercial area. Utah also has approximately 700 biotechnology and biomedical firms which employ nearly 9,000 workers. These companies were conceived through research and development and will continue to grow and thrive only if they can continue to afford to take risks. 
In all, Mr. President, there are approximately 80,000 employees working in Utah's 1,400 plus and growing technology based firms. Research and development is the lifeblood of these Utah firms and hundreds of thousands more throughout the Nation that are like them. 
The research and experimentation tax credit has been on the books for many years, and there is no doubt that it has proved beneficial to our Nation's technology enterprise. But, there is also no doubt that its benefits could be even greater if the credit were made permanent and the perennial uncertainty with respect to the availability of the credit--and thus the cost of doing research--were eliminated. 
With the introduction of this bill, I am pleased to inform you that we have included one slight change in this permanent extension. As already established, companies whose research efforts do not qualify them for the credit are allowed to choose the alternative incremental credit. The bill would increase the three alternative incremental credit rates by one percentage point each, thereby spurring tax credit benefits and encouraging more extensive research and development efforts. 
I am aware, Mr. President, that not every company that participates in the research and development process benefits from the credit. However, I believe that Congress should never permit the credit to expire. I urge my colleagues to support this concept of a permanent R&E credit by cosponsoring this legislation and support the type of research activities that will maintain American technological leadership into the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to be notified when 5 minutes have expired. 
I understand well the consternation of my good friends from Texas and California. My State of Utah has been there, too. We have suffered no less a proportionate loss of jobs and installations from the past Base Closing Commissions. The great difference here is we are a small State with just five electoral votes. 
The conference measure gives California and Texas, vote-rich States, something that Utah and other States never had, a second chance at life through a Presidential circumvention of the very BRAC process that the President himself previously enthusiastically supported. 
My friends from Texas and California had several months to work out a compromise. Under the threat of Presidential veto and Senate filibuster, the Armed Services Committee and the Senators and staff from such States as Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Oklahoma, and Utah, among others, the so-called depot States or depot caucus States, which included Texas and California on other issues, have accommodated our friends. We could not be more sympathetic to their losses, which, after all, involve real people and families. As I said earlier, we have all been there. 
But we have given them just about everything they want, even though--I repeat, even though--what we give them we do in a zero-sum sense. That is because we are giving up something that our people won and earned from the BRAC process and must now share. Our generosity in this sense goes beyond mere fairness and magnanimity. It is closer to sacrifice. 
Let me tick off some of the sacrifices. 
We allow competition for work that was originally designated for our depots by BRAC. 
We allow the Air Force's tier I depot, Hill Air Force Base, which has the highest military value, to bid for something rightfully owed to Hill, against McClellan Air Force Base, a tier III depot, or an installation with the lowest military value, according to Air Force assessments. 
We allow these same tier III depots to bid to keep the work there despite the $400 to $700 million higher cost to the taxpayers that the GAO and the Air Force have identified. 
Mr. President, that is sacrifice. But I say enough is enough. It is one thing for us to squawk and scream at each other on the floor of the Senate. We need to move ahead now and address this matter in the way it should be addressed. 
Hill Air Force Base also hosts two Air Combat Command air tactical fighter wings, one of which is an Air Force Reserve unit. These units are rotating to fulfill this Nation's peacekeeping missions in the Middle East and in Bosnia. 
What does that mean to us here today? Military persons are required to put the mission before all else: personal well-being and safety, family, and virtually everything else that matters. So important is this commitment that we have constructed a separate body of law called the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which allows military and civilian authorities to enforce and defend, where necessary, the obligation of self-sacrifice. Cowardice or desertion in the face of the enemy, for example, carries severe penalties. 
Having imposed such heavy obligations on the courageous men and women of our Armed Forces, we now find ourselves delaying the availability of the equipment and means they need urgently to execute their missions. 
So this bill needs to pass. We should not hold up the $93.8 billion for operations and maintenance, which is to say troop training and equipment maintenance. We don't want to deny a pay raise of 2.8 percent for these folks in the military who need it so badly at a time when highly trained air crews are leaving at alarming rates. We don't want to deny bonuses based on years of service and skills or delay the implementation of studies to correct deeply rooted gender discrimination and abuses. 
Improvements of family housing, which is sometimes so awful I wince at some, we don't want to delay that. 
The President's request for $2.1 billion to move ahead on the F-22 program, the airplane to replace the F-15C, the work horse of the Air Force fleet, we don't want to delay that. 
I could go on and on. I believe my point is made. We in Utah made our sacrifices. We shouldn't have to make these sacrifices. The President should have lived up to BRAC to begin with. 
Delaying this bill means increased risk for military persons putting their lives on the line: 
We are holding up $93.8 billion for operations and maintenance, which is to say troop training and equipment maintenance. 
We are denying them a pay raise of 2.8 percent. 
At a time when highly trained air crews are leaving the services at alarming rates, we are denying bonuses based on years of service and skill levels. 
We are delaying the implementation of studies to correct deeply rooted gender discrimination and abuses. 
Improvements in family housing, which is sometimes so awful I wince in shame, are delayed. 
The President's request for $2.1 billion to move ahead on the F-22 program, the airplane that will replace the F-15C, the work horse of the Air Force fleet, will also be delayed. 
Mr. President, I can appreciate that my good friends from Texas and California want to protect the interests of their States. But, they want to change the rules of the game after they've lost in fair play. 
To help us make the really tough decisions about base closures, we created the BRAC process. We--Congress--created this mechanism to decide what bases to close and which to keep open. 
Congress itself selected several of the BRAC Commissioners; and, I heard no grievances about the criteria used by the Commission to make its recommendations. The process enjoyed the support of Congress and the administration. And, I believe that it has been managed by fair-minded men and women and staffed by nonpartisan, skilled analysts. It is probably about as objective a decisionmaking process as you are going to get. 
During the BRAC 95 round, it was determined that Kelly and McClellan should be closed. I can understand why my colleagues from Texas and California are not happy about that--I was not happy when previous BRAC rounds put Tooele Army Depot and Defense Depot Ogden on the closure list. 
But, so far, those of us who represent States that have lost bases because of BRAC have not tried to jury-rig a method for keeping Federal dollars coming to a base on the closure list. 
The Clinton administration has inexcusably tampered with this process. In proposing privatization in place, the Clinton administration put electoral politics ahead of the integrity of the BRAC process, weakening the investment value of already shrinking defense dollars. 
No one has greater cause for protest on this floor than my colleague from Utah and myself. Utah, along with Oklahoma and Georgia, have been made the real victims of the President's tampering with this process. 
In the case of Utah, the administration's original proposal would have starved Hill Air Force Base of the work needed to maintain its own efficiency. 
The Ogden Air Logistics Center at Hill AFB is rated by the Air Force as its No. 1 depot. It received a tier I rating, meaning it has the highest military value. By contrast, Kelly and McClellan were rated as tier III installations, those having the lowest military value. 
The original changes to BRAC proposed by the President could have been made only by dismissing merit as a criteria. It is no different than telling a grade school student that, although he or she is the top academic performer in the class, the honors will go to a less proficient teacher's pet. 
It is no wonder that the workers at these depots are offended by this message. The American Federation of Government Employees [AFGE] has vigorously opposed privatization in place --not just because private contractors would be allowed to take over work, but also because the quality of their work and the dedication of their members to America's defense has been given such short shrift. 
Nevertheless, Mr. President, Utah has a proud legacy of strength in adversity. The great majority of Utahns are descended from pioneers who pulled handcarts halfway across America. Utahns came together with ideas and resources and determination to overcome defense losses. We have long since absorbed the more than 5,000 jobs that previous BRAC's and DOD downsizing have cost us. Our losses are just about proportionate to those experienced by defense closures in Texas and California, considering the relatively smaller size of our workforce. 
But, I would like to point out that Utahns were working without a net. A net that the Clinton administration has graciously--but without justification, in my opinion--provided to Texas and California in this latest BRAC round. 
But, now let's talk about the compromise adopted by the Armed Services Committee in this legislation. 
First of all, as my remarks would indicate, I am strongly opposed to this sleight of hand known as privatization in place. I simply do not see that Federal dollars to contractors to perform the same work done by Kelly and McClellan--and which should have been redistributed to Hill, Warner-Robins, and Tinker--is a savings. Instead of consolidating, all that is achieved with this policy is maintained excess capacity. GAO reported that this concept would actually cost $468 million per year. 
Instead of five depots with excess capacity, we now have three depots and private contractors at Kelly and McClellan. This effectively locks in excess capacity at the three remaining depots and would sign their eventual death warrant. 
Let's be clear about one thing: This conference report does not repudiate privatization in place. It does not consolidate workload. Score a big one for President Clinton and for my 
Texas and California colleagues. 
But, though I would cheerfully chuck this whole concept, I can accept the compromise plan developed by the conferees. The provisions in the conference report at least allow fair competition for the maintenance work and will not stack the deck against Utah and the other similarly affected States. 
In my view, Utahns can compete with anyone. Our work force, our technology, our efficient State and local governments, and our cooperative spirit have been staples of the Utah economy. 
Some of the fruits of that spirit are the facts that: 
Salt Lake City was selected--after one of the toughest competitions you can imagine--to host the Winter Olympic Games in the year 2002; 
Business Week has called Utah the software valley of the world; 
Utah has the highest educational level in the country, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics; 
We are ranked second in the Nation in job creation; 
We are second in economic growth, which for 1997 is estimated at 6.9 percent. This is well above the 2.5 percent average economic growth rate for all States, according to the U.S. Labor Department; 
Despite our small size and being an insular State, 17 percent of the adult population speak a foreign language, many fluently. Utah is the site of the Army's only linguist brigade, a reserve unit that in wartime will bring forward nearly 3,000 accomplished speakers of more than 20 languages. And, I might mention that the city of Provo, UT, beat out New York City and Los Angeles as the site selected by the Army to locate this unit. 
These achievements do not entitle my State to anything. There should never be any guarantees--no free passes. But, this exemplary track record does mean Utah has earned the chance to compete fairly, without having to play by rules that do not apply to others. 
The Air Force knows the value of Utah well. The BRAC Commissioners learned it quickly. And the workers from Kelly and McClellan understandably wanted to share it. 
Utah's military value is unmatched. Our former colleague, Senator Jake Garn, fostered its development as a defense technology mecca. Former Governor Norm Bangerter added 20,000 aerospace jobs to the State during his tenure, which ended in 1992. Today, Congressman Jim Hansen, a longtime member of the House National Security Committee, has led the effort to sustain the high quality of Utah's defense installations. 
Mr. President, Utah has made a commitment to national defense. I am in no way questioning the motivation of others who have enjoined this debate; but, the level of investment and record of excellence exhibited by Hill, Warner-Robins, and Tinker, is a reason for making sure that the Federal Government conducts a fair competition. 
This conference report sets the stage for an acceptable process of fair competition. I expect that the Clinton administration will judiciously carry it out, and I will, of course, be following the implementation of these competitions closely. 
We have crafted a compromise that goes beyond mere equity and fairness. Utah, Oklahoma, and Georgia, after all, are directed to give up something they've earned--which is the right to perform the work BRAC stated they should have. That is an indisputable fact. 
And, perhaps this is a good time to remind my colleagues who do not believe that they have a dog in this fight that, if the rules can be changed to put Utah, Georgia, and Oklahoma at a competitive disadvantage, they can be changed to put your State at a disadvantage as well. Tampering with the BRAC process is a slippery slope. 
Back in July, I questioned Air Force Deputy Secretary Rudy DeLeon regarding several competition procedures. I ask unanimous consent to enter these questions and his responses for the Record, Mr. President. 
I accept Mr. DeLeon's responses as commitments by the Air Force. I am pleased that these commitments have been incorporated in principle or in explicit language in the depot provisions of the bill. 
The only exception regards the protest rights of the bidders. Under the President's original plan, public depot bidders, like Utah's Hill and Oklahoma's Tinker, would have been denied the normal rights of protest available to private bidders. Under the conference agreement, any public depot-private contractor team could pursue a protest through the inherent rights available to the private team member. 
In closing, Mr. President, I want to say that I intend to audit, oversee, and examine the details of each competition in the most minute detail. I will insist not only on compliance with the letter of every appropriate competition statute and regulation, but also with the nonstatutory language and other administration commitments found elsewhere in the legislative history of this debate. The danger of compromise is that those who implement it have the ability to spin things their own way. 
Members of both the House and Senate Armed Services Committee have invested significant blood and sweat on this issue. I appreciate the extraordinary effort by Senators Thurmond, Warner, and Levin. I also want to acknowledge the assistance of Senator Lott. Every now and then we needed a referee, and he was a fair one. At the end of the day, I believe we have come up with a compromise that is workable, and I have every expectation that the President will agree. 
It has also been a pleasure working with my colleagues from Oklahoma and Georgia, and, of course, my partner from Utah, Bob Bennett. 
Last, but not least, I want to thank my colleague, the senior Utahn in the House, Congressman Jim Hansen. Jim fought his guts out to make sure that Hill Air Force Base has a fair chance. And, I don't think this issue could have been as successfully resolved without his work in the other body. 
Mr. President, I believe we have reached a satisfactory resolution of this thorny issue. I urge all Senators to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise this morning to discuss the nomination of Mr. Bill Lann Lee of California to be President Clinton's Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights. Let me say at the outset that, in my 5 years as the senior Republican on the Judiciary Committee, I have been proud to have advanced no less than 230 of President Clinton's nominees to the Federal courts. After a thorough review of these nominees' views and records, I have supported the confirmation of all but two of them. In addition, I have also worked to ensure that President Clinton's Justice Department nominees receive a fair, expeditious, and thorough review. Without question, the Senate's advice and consent responsibility is one that I take very seriously. This nomination is no exception. 
While I have the highest personal regard for Bill Lann Lee, his record and his responses to questions posed by the committee suggest a distorted view of the law that makes it difficult for me in good conscience to support his nomination to be the chief enforcer of the Nation's civil rights laws. The Assistant Attorney General must be America's civil rights law enforcer, not the civil rights ombudsman for the political left. Accordingly, when the Judiciary Committee votes on whether to report his nomination to the full Senate, I will regretfully vote `no'. 
At the outset, I want to say that no one in this body respects and appreciates the compelling personal history of Mr. Lee and his family more than I. Mr. Lee's parents came to these shores full of hope for the future. They believed in the promise of America. And despite meager circumstances and the scourge of bigotry, they worked hard, educated their children, and never lost faith in this great country. 
Yet, what we must never forget as we take up this debate is that the sum of our experiences says less about who we become than does what we take from those experiences. For example, my good friend Justice Clarence Thomas was, like Mr. Lee, born into a circumstance where opportunities were unjustly limited. Nevertheless, Clarence Thomas worked hard, and has devoted his career to ensuring that the law protects every individual with equal force. The same can be said of another African-American, Bill Lucas, who was nominated by President Bush for the same position as Mr. Lee, but whose nomination was rejected by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. 
Bill Lann Lee is, to his credit, an able civil rights lawyer with a profoundly admirable passion to improve the lives of many Americans who have been left behind. His talent and good intentions have taken him far. But his good intentions should not be sufficient to earn the consent of this body. Those charged with enforcing the Nation's laws must demonstrate a proper understanding of that law, and a determination to uphold its letter and its spirit. Unfortunately, much of Mr. Lee's work has been devoted to preserving constitutionally suspect race-conscious public policies that ultimately sort and divide citizens by race. To this day, he is an adamant defender of preferential policies that, by definition, favor some and disfavor others based upon race and ethnicity. 
At his hearing before the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Lee suggested he would enforce the law without regard to his personal opinions. But that cannot be the end of our inquiry. The Senate's responsibility is then to determine what the nominee's view of the law is. That question is particularly important for a nominee to the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division.  
II. CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION 
As I have made clear in the past, it is my view that the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights is one of the most important law enforcement positions in the Federal Government. No position in Government more profoundly shapes and implements our Nation's goal of equality under law. 
The Civil Rights Division was established in 1957 to enforce President Eisenhower's Civil Rights Act of 1957, the first civil rights statute since Reconstruction. Since the appointment of the first Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, Mr. Harold Tyler, the Division has had a distinguished record of enforcing the Nation's civil rights laws, often against perilous political odds. With great leaders like Burke Marshall, John Doar, and Stanley Pottinger, the Civil Rights Division emphasized the equality of individuals under law, and a commitment to ensuring that every American--regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, national origin, or disability--enjoys an equal opportunity to pursue his or her talents free of illegal discrimination. That is a commitment that I fundamentally share, and take very seriously as I consider a nominee to this important Division. 
Today, however, the Civil Rights Division, and the Nation's fundamental civil rights policies, stand at a crossroads. In recent years, the Nation's courts have underscored the notion that the constitutional guarantee of equal protection applies equally to every individual American. Consistent with that principle, they have placed strict limitations on the Government's ability to count among its citizens by race. Nevertheless, many among us who lay claim to the mantle of civil rights would have us continue on the road of racial spoils--a road on which Americans are seen principally through the looking glass of race. I regret to say that Bill Lee's record suggests that he too wishes the Nation to travel that unfortunate road. 
The country today, however, demands a Civil Rights Division devoted to protecting us all equally. It cannot do that when it is committed to policies that elevate one citizen's rights above another's. Let me share one example of what results from the race-consciousness that some, Bill Lann Lee among them, would have us embrace. 
Earlier this year, the Judiciary Committee held a hearing to examine the problem of discrimination in America. One story, that of Charlene Loen was particularly moving. Ms. Loen is a Chinese-American mother of two who lives in San Francisco. Ms. Loen's son Patrick was denied admission to a distinguished public magnet school in San Francisco, pursuant to the racial preference policy contained in a consent decree which caps the percentage of ethnic group representation in each of the city's public schools. The cap has the effect of requiring young, Chinese students to score significantly higher on magnet school entrance exams than students of other races. While young Patrick scored higher than many of his friends on the admissions exam, he was denied admission, while other children who scored less well were admitted. Ms. Loen sought to have Patrick admitted to several other public magnet schools in the city, and time after time she was told in no uncertain terms that because he was Chinese, Patrick need not apply. 
So you see, a policy that prefers one, by definition disfavors another. In this case, the disfavored other has a name, Patrick. The law must be understood to protect Patrick, and others like him, no less than anyone else. What matters under the law is not that Patrick is ethnic Chinese, but that he is American. Affirmative action policies as originally conceived embraced that ideal. Recruiting and outreach that ensures broad inclusion is one thing; racial and gender preferences that enforce double standards are quite another. 
But the case against Bill Lee is broader, and more fundamental, than his aggressive support for public policies that sort and divide by race. What Bill Lee's record fundamentally suggests is a willingness to read the civil rights laws so narrowly--and to find exceptions so broad--as to undermine their very spirit, if not their letter. Let me share a few cases to illustrate the point. 
III. ADARAND 
At his hearing, Mr. Lee was asked about the Supreme Court's holding in the case of Adarand Constructors versus Pech, in which the Supreme Court held that State-sanctioned racial distinctions are presumptively unconstitutional. When asked to state the holding of the case, Mr. Lee said that it epitomizes the Supreme Court's view that racial preference programs are permissible if `conducted in a limited and measured manner.' That is, arguably, a narrowly correct statement. But it purposefully misses the mark of the Court's fundamental holding that such programs are presumptively unconstitutional. Imagine if a nominee had come before this body and stated for the record that the Court's first amendment cases stand for the proposition that the state can interfere with religious practices if it does so carefully. Such a purposefully misleading view would properly be assailed as a fundamental mischaracterization of the spirit of the law. So, too, is Mr. Lee's view of the Supreme Court's statements about racial distinctions enforced by the Government. 
In addition, Mr. Lee stated for the record his personal opposition to Adarand. He then said that in spite of that, he would enforce the law, if confirmed. Fair enough. But, in response to a written question from Senator Ashcroft, Mr. Lee's narrow view of what the law is becomes astonishingly clear. Senator Ashcroft asked Mr. Lee whether the program at issue in the Adarand case is unconstitutional. Mr. Lee noted that the Supreme Court in Adarand remanded the case to the district court in Colorado. He further noted that the district court just this summer held that the programs in question are not narrowly tailored and are therefore unconstitutional. In so holding, the court stated in its opinion that 
[c]ontrary to the [Supreme] Court's pronouncement that strict scrutiny is not `fatal in fact,' I find it difficult to envisage a race-based classification that is narrowly tailored. 
But despite the court's strong pronouncement, Mr. Lee asserts in his response to Senator Ashcroft that he believes `this program is sufficiently narrowly tailored to satisfy the strict scrutiny test.' Apparently, then, Mr. Lee is prepared to support racial preference programs until every possible exception under the law is unequivocally foreclosed by the Supreme Court, despite the Court's view that such programs are presumptively unconstitutional and may only be used in exceptional circumstances. Mr. Lee's view of the law, it seems to me, is exceedingly narrow and violative of the Court's rulings and holdings. We must expect more of the Nation's chief civil rights law enforcer. 
IV. PROPOSITION 209 
I realize that some still embrace policies that divide and sort by race. And given the court's narrow exception in Adarand, I am willing to consider a nominee who believes such policies may be constitutional in limited circumstances. It is fair that that view is heard. Yet, it is quite another matter altogether when a nominee takes the position that the contrary view--that racial preferences should be prohibited--is unconstitutional. Such a view of the law effectively silences dissenting voices on this, the most important civil rights issue of our day. 
Mr. Lee and his organization, the Western Office of the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, have led the opposition to California's proposition 209, which said simply that no Californian can be discriminated against or preferred by the State on the basis of race, gender, or national origin. He has also challenged the University of California's efforts to comply with its colorblindness mandate, by complaining to the Federal Department of Education that the University's race-neutral use of standardized tests and weighted grade point averages violates the civil rights laws. Even the anti-209 director of admissions at the UCLA School of Law, Michael Rappaport, has described the NAACP's complaint as `frightening' for universities wishing to employ rigorous academic standards. That complaint is only part of a comprehensive effort by Mr. Lee and his organization to undermine the people of California's political judgment that their government should respect the rights of citizens without regard to race. 
Soon after 54 percent of Californians voted to pass proposition 209, Mr. Lee's office filed a brief in the Federal court action challenging the constitutionality of the initiative, relying on the cases of Hunter versus Erickson--fair housing legislation--and Washington versus Seattle--busing--to allege that 209 was an unconstitutional restructuring of the political process because minorities are no longer permitted to petition local governments for preferential treatment. Of course, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals--perhaps the most liberal circuit court in the Nation--forcefully and unequivocally rejected that argument, noting that governmental racial distinctions are presumptively unconstitutional, and concluded:  
As a matter of `conventional' equal protection analysis, there is simply no doubt that Proposition 209 is constitutional. . . . After all, the `goal' of the Fourteenth Amendment, `to which the Nation continues to aspire,' is `a political system in which race no longer matters' (citation omitted). . . . The Fourteenth Amendment, lest we lose sight of the forest for the trees, does not require what it barely permits. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19971104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
Mr. ROBERTS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to laud the Senate passage of H.R. 672. This legislation, which was introduced by Congressman Coble in the House of Representatives, is the counterpart to legislation I introduced in the Senate on March 20 of this year--the Copyright Clarification Act of 1997, S. 506. The Copyright Clarification Act was reported unanimously by the Senate Judiciary Committee on April 17. 
The purpose of these bills is to make technical but needed changes to our Nation's copyright laws in order to ensure the effective administration of our copyright system and the U.S. Copyright Office. The need for these changes was first brought to my attention by the Register of Copyrights, Marybeth Peters, and I want to thank her for her outstanding work. 
Among the most important amendments made by H.R. 672 is a clarification of the Copyright Office's authority to increase its fees for the first time since 1990 in order to help cover its costs and to reduce the impact of its services on the Federal budget and the American taxpayer. This clarification is needed because of ambiguities in the Copyright Fees and Technical Amendments Act of 1989, which authorized the Copyright Office to increase fees in 1995, and every fifth year thereafter. Because the Copyright Office did not raise its fees in 1995, as anticipated, there has been some uncertainty as to whether the Copyright Office may increase its fees again before 2000 and whether the baseline for calculating the increase in the consumer price index is the date of the last actual fees settlement--1990--or the date of the last authorized fees settlement--1995. H.R. 672 clarifies that the Copyright Office may increase its fees in any calendar year, provided it has not done so within the last 5 years, and that the fees may be increased up to the amount required to cover the reasonable costs incurred by the Copyright Office. 
Although H.R. 672 does not require the Copyright Office to increase its fees to cover all its costs, I believe it is important in that it provides the Copyright Office the statutory tools to become self-sustaining--a concept that I promoted in the last Congress. Currently the Copyright Office does not recover the full costs of its services through fees, but instead receives some $10 million in annual appropriations. 
Several studies have supported full-cost recovery for the Copyright Office. For example, a 1996 Booz-Allen & Hamilton management review of the Library of Congress recommended that the Copyright Office pursue full-cost recovery, noting that the Copyright Office has been subject to full-cost recovery in the past and that the potential revenues to be derived from pursuing a fee-based service was significant. A 1996 internal Copyright Office management report prepared by the Library of Congress also recommended full-cost recovery for copyright services. The Congressional Budget Office has also suggested full-cost recovery for the Copyright Office as a means of achieving deficit reduction. These recommendations were endorsed by the General Accounting Office in its recent report, `Intellectual Property, Fees Are Not Always Commensurate with the Costs of Services.' 
It is my understanding that the Copyright Office has embraced the goal of achieving full-cost recovery for its copyright services. H.R. 672 will provide the authority to achieve that goal, and by passing this legislation this year, the Copyright Office will be able to move expeditiously to adjust their fees for the coming year. 
I also want to note the importance of the amendment which the Senate has adopted to H.R. 672 to overturn the ninth circuit's decision in La Cienega Music Co. v. ZZ Top, 53 F.3d 950 (9th Cir. 1995), cert denied, 116 S. Ct. 331 (1995). My colleagues will recall that Senator Leahy and I introduced this legislation in March of this year as a provision of S. 505, the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1997. 
In general, LaCienega held that distributing a sound recording to the public--by sale, for example--is a `publication' of the music recorded on it under the 1909 Copyright Act. Under the 1909 Act, publication without copyright notice caused loss of copyright protection. Almost all music that was first published on recording did not contain copyright notice, because publishers believed that it was not technically a publication. The Copyright Office also considered these musical compositions to be unpublished. The effect of La Cienega, however, is that virtually all music before 1978 that was first distributed to the public on recording has no copyright protection--at least in the ninth circuit. 
By contrast, the second circuit in Rosette v. Rainbo Record Manufacturing Corp. 546 F.2d 461 (2d Cir. 1975), aff'd per curiam, 546 F.2d 461 (2d Cir. 1976) has held the opposite--that public distribution of recordings was not a publication of the music contained on them. As I have noted, Rosette comports with the nearly universal understanding of the music and sound recording industries and of the Copyright Office. 
Since the Supreme Court has denied cert in La Cienega, whether one has copyright in thousands of musical compositions depends on whether the case is brought in the second or ninth circuits. This situation is intolerable. Overturning the La Cienega decision will restore national uniformity on this important issue by confirming the wisdom of the custom and usage of the affected industries and of the Copyright Office for nearly 100 years. 
In addition to these two important provisions, H.R. 672 will: 
First, correct drafting errors in the Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1994, which resulted from the failure to take into account the recent changes made by the Copyright Tribunal Reform Act of 1993, and which mistakingly reversed the rates set by a 1992 Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel for Satellite carriers; 
Second, clarify ambiguities in the Copyright Restoration Act dealing with the restoration of copyright protection for certain works under the 1994 Uruguay Round Agreements Act; 
Third, ensure that rates established in 1996 under the Digital Performance Rights in Sound Recordings Act will not lapse in the event that the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel does not conclude rate-setting proceedings prior to Dec. 31, 2000. 
Fourth, restore definition of `jukebox' and `jukebox operator,' which were mistakingly omitted when the old jukebox compulsory license was replaced with the current negotiated jukebox license; 
Fifth, revise the currently unworkable requirement of a 20-day advanced notice of intent to copy right the fixation of live performances, such as sporting events; 
Sixth, clarify administrative issues regarding the operation of the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels; 
Seventh, provide needed flexibility for the Librarian of Congress in setting the negotiation period for the distribution of digital audio recording technology [DART] royalties; and, 
Eighth, make miscellaneous spelling, grammatical, capitalization and other corrections to the Copyright Act. 
Mr. President, this is important legislation, and I am pleased the Senate has acted to approved it prior to adjourning this fall. I wish to thank my colleagues and to encourage the House to accept the Senate amendment and to forward H.R. 672 to the President for his signature without delay.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I endorse the nomination of Charles Siragusa who has been nominated by President Clinton for the position of U.S. District Judge for the Western District of New York. 
Judge Siragusa comes before the Senate with an already distinguished record having served on the New York supreme court since 1993. In that position, he has presided over both civil cases and criminal cases. He is currently assigned full time to the criminal division. 
Judge Siragusa is not only a seasoned jurist, but he is also an experienced trial lawyer. He has extensive litigation experience having first been an assistant district attorney and then later serving as a first assistant district attorney in the Monroe County district attorney office from 1977 to 1992. I am sure my colleagues will agree that he is well qualified for a position on the Federal bench for many reasons not the least of which because he is someone who has had the practical experience of having tried approximately 100 cases as lead trial counsel. I might add that 95 percent of those cases were jury trials and many of them involved homicides. 
Judge Siragusa also brings the experience of having been a teacher of sixth graders and junior high school from 1969 to 1973, in Rochester, NY. I am sure that job taught him great patience--a skill that might come in handy someday on the Federal bench. 
He is also active in his community. Judge Siragusa is a member of numerous organizations including the Jewish Community Center; the New York District Attorney Association; the Monroe County Bar; the Rochester Inn of Court; Jury Advisory Commission; and the Association Justices Supreme Court in New York. 
Judge Siragusa graduated cum laude from LeMoyne College in 1969 having earned a bachelor of arts sociology, and his juris doctorate from Albany Law School in 1976. 
He has two published writings, in addition to his other than judicial opinions--one entitled `Prosecution of a Serial Killer;' and the other being, `View from the Bench' that appeared in Rochesterian Magazine. 
I would also like to add that Judge Siragusa's nomination might have been before the Senate sooner, but for the fact that when the Judiciary Committee first tried to schedule a hearing on his nomination my staff had a bit of trouble locating him. We later learned that he was in Aruba on his honeymoon. Congratulations, Judge Siragusa. 
I am confident that Judge Siragusa will be a worthy addition to the bench of the Federal District Court in the Western District of New York. I am very pleased that the Senate has scheduled a vote on his nomination, which I am happy to support. He is also supported by Senator Moynihan and Senator D'Amato. I urge my colleagues to do the same.  
Mr. BURNS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I have been very interested in this debate because we went through three BRAC processes and, now, all of a sudden, we find it turned upside down. 
Let me respond to the Senators from Texas, especially Senator Gramm. I have always appreciated his dogged defense of competition. Generally, I am right there with him. That is why I truly regret that I must differ with him on his interpretation that the conference report is, in his words, anticompetitive. 
There is fair competition and there is unfair competition. The conference report proposes fair competition. 
Let us look at how the conference report differs from the privatization-in-place language initially proposed by the Clinton administration. 
First, the conference report requires that all the costs of operation be factored into the bids. 
What honesty is there in a bid that excludes certain costs? Well, you got that right--none. Privatization in place, as originally proposed, would have permitted certain contractors from excluding the costs of the facilities themselves in Texas and in California. Naturally, these contractors would be able to submit artificially low bids. This would be an unfair disadvantage to the successful depots, which had already justified their existence through three separate BRAC processes, because excess capacity will inflate their hourly costs. 
Second, the Base Closing and Realignment Commission, the BRAC, recommended the closure of Kelly and McClellan and that the work be distributed to the three remaining depots. 
Instead of consolidating work as BRAC recommended, privatization in place merely masks greater inefficiency. Privatization in place may sound like competition, but it is not fair competition. 
And it is not very prudent. Let me ask my colleagues: How is it a cost saving if private companies are able to take over the work of Kelly and McClellan under contract to the Government? I realize that this is something of a sleight of hand, so let me review the concept. 
If you have a subsidiary plant that is not working to capacity, the normal business decision would be to close it down and redistribute the work to the other more efficient plants, which was what BRAC was all about. But under the original Clinton plan, the work would simply be bid out to others. There is no closure of the facility, and you are paying others for the work. And, you have to ask, what in the world is going on here? 
The conference report language is a compromise. Those of us referred to by the Senators from Texas and California as the depot caucus are not getting what we wanted--which was the validation of the BRAC process, whatever that may bring. 
I know that I went to every one of those meetings. It was a pressure-packed, difficult time. All of us were concerned. 
Frankly, the BRAC Commission did make the tough decisions in determining which ones should survive, which ones should not. But for the other three to do their job, they must have this work in fair competition. I have every confidence that Utahns can compete with anyone in a fair competition. 
At least by leveling the playing field for bidding on depot work, everyone has a fair chance. May the best bidders win. And let us keep integrity in the process. What the Senators on the other side seem to be arguing for is a system that really stacks the deck. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to laud the Senate passage of H.R. 672. This legislation, which was introduced by Congressman Coble in the House of Representatives, is the counterpart to legislation I introduced in the Senate on March 20 of this year--the Copyright Clarification Act of 1997 (S. 506). The Copyright Clarification Act was reported unanimously by the Senate Judiciary Committee on April 17. 
The purpose of these bills is to make technical but needed changes to our Nation's copyright laws in order to ensure the effective administration of our copyright system and the U.S. Copyright Office. The need for these changes was first brought to my attention by the Register of Copyrights, Marybeth Peters, and I want to thank her for her outstanding work. 
Among the most important amendments made by H.R. 672 is a clarification of the Copyright Office's authority to increase its fees for the first time since 1990 in order to help cover its costs and to reduce the impact of its services on the Federal budget and the American taxpayer. This clarification is needed because of ambiguities in the Copyright Fees and Technical Amendments Act of 1989, which authorized the Copyright Office to increase fees in 1995, and every fifth year thereafter. Because the Copyright Office did not raise its fees in 1995, as anticipated, there has been some uncertainty as to whether the Copyright Office may increase its fees again before 2000 and whether the baseline for calculating the increase in the consumer price index is the date of the last actual fee settlement, 1990, or the date of the last authorized fee settlement, 1995. H.R. 672 clarifies that the Copyright Office may increase its fees in any calendar year, provided it has not done so within the last 5 years, and that the fees may be increased up to the amount required to cover the reasonable costs incurred by the Copyright Office. 
Although H.R. 672 does not require the Copyright Office to increase its fees to cover all its costs, I believe it is important in that it provides the Copyright Office the statutory tools to become self-sustaining--a concept that I promoted in the last Congress. Currently the Copyright Office does not recover the full cost of its services through fees, but instead receives some $10 million in annual appropriations. 
Several studies have supported full-cost recovery for the Copyright Office. For example, A 1996 Booz-Allen and Hamilton management review of the Library of Congress recommended that the Copyright Office pursue full-cost recovery, noting that the Copyright Office has been subject to full-cost recovery in the past and that the potential revenues to be derived from pursuing a fee-based service was significant. A 1996 internal Copyright Office management report prepared by the Library of Congress also recommended full-cost recovery for copyright services. The Congressional Budget Office has also suggested full-cost recovery for the Copyright Office as a means of achieving deficit reduction. These recommendations were endorsed by the General 
Accounting Office in its recent report, Intellectual Property, Fees Are Not Always Commensurate with the Costs of Service. 
It is my understanding that the Copyright Office has embraced the goal of achieving full-cost recovery for its copyright services. H.R. 672 will provide the authority to achieve that goal, and by passing this legislation this year, the Copyright Office will be able to move expeditiously to adjust their fees for the coming year. 
I also want to note the importance of the amendment which the Senate has adopted to H.R. 672 to overturn the Ninth Circuit's decision in La Cienega Music Co. v. ZZ Top, 53 F.3d 950 (9th Cir. 1995), cert denied, 116 S. Ct. 331 (1995). My colleagues will recall that Senator Leahy and I introduced this legislation in March of this year as a provision of S. 505, the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1997. 
In general, La Cienega held that distributing a sound recording to the public--by sale, for example--is a publication of the music recorded on it under the 1909 Copyright Act. Under the 1909 act, publication without copyright notice caused loss of copyright protection. Almost all music that was first published on recordings did not contain copyright notice, because publishers believed that it was not technically a publication. The Copyright Office also considered these musical compositions to be unpublished. The effect of La Cienega, however, is that virtually all music before 1978 that was first distributed to the public on recordings has no copyright protection--at least in the Ninth Circuit. 
By contrast, the Second Circuit in Rosette v. Rainbo Record Manufacturing Corp., 546 F.2d 461 (2d Cir. 1975), aff'd per curiam, 546 F.2d 461 (2d Cir. 1976) has held the opposite--that publish distribution of recordings was not a publication of the music contained on them. As I have noted, Rosette comports with the nearly universal understanding of the music and sound recording industries and of the Copyright Office. 
Since the Supreme Court has denied cert in La Cienega, whether one has copyright in thousands of musical compositions depends on whether the case is brought in the Second or Ninth Circuits. This situation is intolerable. Overturning the La Cienega decision will restore national uniformity on this important issue by confirming the wisdom of the custom and usage of the affected industries and of the Copyright Office for nearly 100 years. 
In addition to these two important provisions, H.R. 672 will: First, correct drafting errors in the Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1994, which resulted from the failure to take into account the recent changes made by the Copyright Tribunal Reform Act of 1993, and which mistakingly reversed the rates set by a 1992 Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel for satellite carriers; second, clarify ambiguities in the Copyright Restoration Act dealing with the restoration of copyright protection for certain works under the 1994 Uruguay Round Agreements Act; third, ensure that rates established in 1996 under the Digital Performance Rights in Sound Recordings Act will not lapse in the event that the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel does not conclude rate-setting proceedings prior to December 1, 2000; fourth, restore definitions of jukebox and jukebox operator, which were mistakingly omitted when the old jukebox compulsory license was replaced with the current negotiated jukebox license; fifth, revise the currently unworkable requirement of a 10-day advanced notice of intent to copyright the fixation of live performances, such as sporting events; sixth, clarify administrative issues regarding the operation of the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels; seventh, provide needed flexibility for the Librarian of Congress in setting the negotiation period for the distribution of digital audio recording technology [DART] royalties; and, eighth, make miscellaneous spelling, grammatical, capitalization, and other corrections to the Copyright Act. 
Mr. President, this is important legislation, and I am pleased the Senate has acted to approve it prior to adjourning this fall. I wish to thank my colleagues and to encourage the House to accept the Senate amendment and to forward H.R. 672 to the President for his signature without delay.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971024</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to raise an issue that my colleagues may have heard about, the recent decision by an arbitration panel convened under the auspices of the Copyright Office in the Library of Congress regarding the rates satellite carriers will pay under the satellite copyright compulsory license. The panel, in attempting to set a fair market value of the retransmission of broadcast signals, has decided to raise those rates and has made the new rate effective July 1, 1997. The arbitration panel's decision is currently on appeal to the Librarian of Congress who is empowered to review the decision. The standard of review is limited to one of arbitrariness or contrariness to law. The Librarian's decision will be announced next Tuesday, October 28. At that point, the Librarian's decision is subject to appeal to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The decision to raise the rates and especially its retroactive effective date has raised objections by the satellite carriers. Obviously, copyright owners disagree with the satellite carriers. My colleagues may be contacted by one side or the other of this dispute in the coming weeks or months. 
My colleagues should know that as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the committee of jurisdiction over copyright matters generally, and the Satellite Home Viewers Act in particular, I have begun a review of the satellite and cable licenses. Earlier this year I asked the Copyright Office to conduct in depth public hearings and make a comprehensive report to the Judiciary Committee on the licenses, together with recommendations for reforms. The Judiciary Committee is now reviewing these recommendations. 
As we make our review of the compulsory licenses, I believe we need to keep in mind the needs of rural families. The Satellite Home Viewers Act was originally intended in 1988 to ensure that households that could not get television in any other way, such as traditional broadcast or cable, would be able to get television signals via satellite. 
The market has changed substantially since 1988, and those changes have led to many of the controversies that currently surround the act. Many are looking to satellite carriers to compete directly with cable companies for viewership. But as we consider reforms to make the license work better in the current marketplace, we need to consider carefully the impact on the original beneficiaries, rural folks who are otherwise beyond the reach of traditional television signals. 
I come from a state that has a fine broadcast industry that invests its energy and capital in trying to reach as many viewers as it can in our mountainous State of Utah. But there are some Utahans, or others in similar rural States, who appear to be simply beyond the reach of broadcast transmitters and translators, despite the best efforts of our broadcasters. As the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I hope to find a fair way of helping the greatest number of Utahans have the greatest amount of choice in television entertainment. Obviously this means balancing a number of interests, since consumer choice will be curtailed if any segment of the industry is disadvantaged too much to support the other segments. We need to try to get a system that will be consumer-friendly, fair to creators and copyright holders to encourage them to continue to produce quality entertainment, and that makes for a competitive environment that will lower prices and increase choices. As we do this, we need to remember the original purpose of the satellite license, which is to make television available to those who cannot otherwise get it. 
I believe many of my colleagues on the committee and in the Senate share my views, particularly my good friend, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Leahy. Mr. President, I would ask the distinguished ranking member if he shares my concerns about rural satellite viewers, as well as the other affected interests in this industry? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19971024</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. Mr. President, I would ask my colleague from Vermont if he will work with me and the other members of the Judiciary Committee to help ensure that we keep the needs of rural satellite viewers in mind as we consider reforms to the compulsory licenses? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19971024</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague, and I invite my colleagues in the Senate to work with me and with the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee as we review the compulsory licenses to ensure the best situation for all our constituents. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, I am today introducing a private relief bill on behalf of Belinda McGregor, the beloved sister of one of my constituents, Rosalinda Burton. 
Mistakes are made everyday, Mr. President, and when innocent people suffer severe consequences as a result of these mistakes, something ought to be done to remedy the situation. 
In the particular case of Ms. Belinda McGregor, the federal bureaucracy made a mistake--a mistake which cost Ms. McGregor dearly and it is now time to correct this mistake. Unfortunately, the only way to provide relief is through Congressional action. 
Belinda McGregor, a citizen of the United Kingdom, filed an application for the 1995 Diversity Visa program. Her husband, a citizen of Ireland, filed a separate application at the same time. Ms. McGregor's application was among those selected to receive a diversity visa. When the handling clerk at the National Visa Center received the application, however, the clerk erroneously replaced Ms. McGregor's name in the computer with that of her husband. 
As a result, Ms. McGregor was never informed that she had been selected and never provided the requisite information. The mistake with respect to Ms. McGregor's husband was caught, but not in time for Ms. McGregor to meet the September, 1995 deadline. Her visa number was given to another applicant. 
In short, Ms. McGregor was unfairly denied the 1995 diversity visa that was rightfully hers due to a series of errors by the National Visa Center. As far as I know, these facts are not disputed. 
Unfortunately, the Center does not have the legal authority to rectify its own mistake by simply granting Ms. McGregor a visa out of a subsequent year's allotment. Thus, a private relief bill is needed in order to see that Ms. McGregor gets the visa to which she was clearly entitled to in 1995. 
Mr. President, I have received a very compelling letter from Rosalinda Burton of Cedar Hills, UT which I am placing in the Record. Ms. Burton is Ms. McGregor's sister and she described to me the strong relationship that she and her sister have and the care that her sister provided when Ms. Burton was seriously injured in a 1993 car accident. 
I hope that the Senate can move forward on this bill expeditiously. Ms. McGregor was the victim of a simple and admitted bureaucratic snafu. The Senate ought to move swiftly to correct this injustice. 
Mr. President, I am also including in the record additional relevant correspondence which documents the background of this case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to those whose service has at long last been recognized by their country. I am speaking, of course, of those women who have served their country in uniform. This past weekend, women veterans converged in Washington for ceremonies dedicating the Women in Military Service to America Memorial. 
Two million women have stepped forward to serve in every conflict from the American Revolution to Desert Storm. This is a surprising fact when you look around Washington, DC, with its many monuments to American military heroes and battles--generally men on horseback. 
The Women in Military Service to America Memorial, thanks to the dauntless effort of retired Brig. Gen. Wilma Vaught, has finally become a reality. It will serve as a permanent reminder that the words `duty, honor, country' are not merely the motto of West Point cadets; they are part and parcel of citizenship in this great Nation. They certainly are not gender specific. 
Today, there are over 1 million women who are veterans of our Armed Forces; and 14 percent of the U.S. military are women, many of whom have made military service a career. 
These are women who have nursed the wounded and comforted the dying; they have flown aircraft; they have delivered the mail; they have requisitioned and moved supplies; they have maintained equipment; they have gathered and assessed intelligence; they have managed offices and pushed paperwork. 
They have braved every condition and suffered every deprivation. They have been prisoners of war; they have been wounded; and many have offered the ultimate sacrifice of their lives for the Nation. 
A person who serves in our Nation's Armed Forces is a citizen who has sworn to step into harm's way to defend freedom. Male or female, we owe our veterans a debt of gratitude for taking on these risks. 
With the dedication of the Women in Military Service to America Memorial, we are finally recognizing the contributions of women in our Armed Forces. 
I want to pay special tribute to the many women of Utah who have served. Utah's population includes more than 6,000 women veterans. 
During the First World War, the Red Cross made desperate pleas for qualified nurses to staff the hospitals for the troops. One-fourth of the nurses in Utah at the time offered their skills and joined the effort. I think it is of particular note that, although Utah women had the right to vote, other women volunteered for military service in World War I before they could even vote. 
And yet, they served under brutal conditions. 
Mabel Winnie Bettilyon of Salt Lake City worked at an evacuation hospital in France where she faced an unrelenting patient load. During one night, more than 800 wounded American soldiers came into the hospital, and she was assigned to care for 136 of them. 
Ruth Clayton called her service in France `the most important experience of my life' because, she said, `I was able to help.' She worked in a mobile medical unit caring for soldiers wounded by gas attacks, many suffering from horrifying disfigurement. She held the hands of the dying and strengthened the weak. They ate sitting in the mess tent on a wooden coffin. Upon Clayton's return, she went on, as so many others did, to a distinguished nursing career at home. 
During World War II, Mary Worrell of Layton, UT, was among a select group of women who were trained to fly military cargo planes. Although relegated to the copilot's chair, these women proved their bravery and skill. Worrell trained as a Navy transport airman, a WAVE, flying the B-54 in alternately hot or cold unpressurized cabins. One of her assignments was to distribute the balance of weight in the plane. She recalls directing passengers to stand in the front of the plane for take off, or have them crouch in the tail depending on conditions. Today, Worrell helps educate and inspire visitors as a volunteer at the Hill Aerospace Museum in Utah. 
Other women became Women Airforce Service Pilots [WASP's]; 25,000 women volunteered for the program to compensate for the shortage of pilots; 1,037 were accepted and completed the training to become full-fledged pilots, delivering bombers from factory to the troops in Europe during the 1940s. They flew every kind of mission except combat. Because they were not officially part of the military, there were no bands or benefits awaiting them at the completion of their service. In fact, 39 of them lost their lives, and families and friends paid for the return of their remains. Not until 1977 were these women finally recognized and granted veterans status. 
Efforts to integrate more women, to incorporate those military groups who had served as auxillaries, grew during the Korean war. Barbara Toomer is a Utah veteran of the Army Nurse Corps during the Korean conflict, when the total enrollment of women in the armed forces was at just 4 percent. 
Their sacrifice does not always end with their military tours of duty, nor does their struggle for respect. When Veda Jones, a disabled Vietnam-era veteran, sought to work with her local service organization, the local commander pointed her in the direction of the auxillary. Undaunted, Jones persisted. She recalls thinking, `I'm 60 percent disabled. I am a Vietnam-era veteran. I did my time--22 years on active duty. I belong with the main body.' Ten years later, Jones was installed as the president of this 5,400 member organization. The veterans of Utah have looked to her leadership, and she has unfailingly been found at her post. She has been an inspiring champion on behalf of veterans, working tirelessly to assist with veterans' employment and health issues in Utah today. 
When the country called many reservists to active duty during the gulf war, there were many Utahns, men and women, who answered the call. We hold the ideals of patriotism and service dear in Utah. With 6,000 members in the Army Reserve and 1,500 members in the Air National Guard, Utah has more units per capita than any other State. Brigham Young University in Provo, UT, has one of the few all-female Army ROTC units in the Southwest, a unit that has distinguished itself already as a force to be reckoned with. 
As is the case throughout today's military, women hold key leadership positions and comprise vital elements of the units, proving not only that women have the skills to be full players in the defense of our Nation, but also that they have the same motivation for service as their male colleagues. 
The women veterans of World War I, World War II, Korea, and Vietnam have opened the doors of opportunity for those Utah women on active duty today--as near as Hill Air Force Base or as far away as Europe, Korea, or on board ship. 
The memorial dedicated last Saturday tells the stories of individual women, and it tells the story of a nation. Remember the women of the Revolutionary War and Civil War who disguised themselves as men in order to serve. Remember the women who worked as spies for the Army or nurses on the battlefield. Remember your grandmothers dodging fire as ambulance drivers in World War I, or your mothers staffing essential supply depots during World War II and Korea. Remember the women who worked in intelligence units in Vietnam or as helicopter pilots in the Persian Gulf. Today, military women are serving aboard ships and flying the space shuttle. 
I will look forward to visiting this beautiful and fitting memorial; and, when I do, I will think of Mamie Ellington Thorne, Mabel Winnie Bettilyon, Mary Worrell, Barbara Toomer, and Veda Jones, among so very many others. I will think of those now serving and be grateful to them as well as to their male colleagues for keeping this country safe. 
May the Women in Military Service to America Memorial stand to remind future generations of these noble women who, like their brothers, have given up certain comforts of civilian life, have volunteered to go to far flung places around the globe, and put themselves at risk to advance the cause of freedom.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I endorse the nomination of Dale Kimball, who has been nominated by President Clinton for the position of U.S. district judge for the district of Utah, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. I am acquainted with Mr. Kimball personally and know that he comes before the Senate with an already distinguished record as a lawyer and litigator, an individual demonstrably well qualified for the position of Federal district court judge. 
After working as an associate and then as a partner with a leading Utah law firm, Van Cott, Bagley, Cornwell & McCarthy, for 8 years, Dale Kimball became a founding partner, and is now the senior partner, at what has become one of my State's most distinguished firms; Kimball, Parr, Waddoups, Brown & Gee. 
During his 30-year career, Mr. Kimball has developed extensive expertise in various areas of civil practice, particularly the litigation in Federal and State court of complex business cases involving such matters as energy, antitrust, securities fraud, insurance, and contracts. As an experienced litigator, Dale Kimball is particularly well-qualified to serve as a trial court judge. The respect Dale Kimball has earned from the Utah legal community is reflected in his selection as Distinguished Lawyer of the Year by the Utah State Bar in 1996. 
Dale Kimball's dedication to the practice of law is matched by his dedication to serving his community. He has been a member of the board of the Pioneers Theater Co., Alta View Hospital, the Desert News Publishing Co., the Jordan Education Foundation, and the J. Reuben Clark Law Society. 
I am confident that Dale Kimball will be a worthy addition to the Federal district court in Utah, and I am very pleased that the Senate has confirmed his nonination. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce private relief legislation on behalf of my constituents, Mr. Saeed Rezai, and his wife, Mrs. Julie Rezai. 
As my colleagues are aware, those immigration cases that warrant private legislation are extremely rare. In fact, in nearly 8 years, I have introduced just one bill to grant such relief--a bill for the relief of Saeed Rezai in the last Congress. As I said before the Senate when I introduced that bill in 1995, I had hoped that this case would not require congressional intervention. Unfortunately, it is clear that private legislation is the only means remaining to ensure that the equities of Mr. and Mrs. Rezai's case are heard and that a number of unresolved questions are answered without imposing a terrible hardship on Mr. and Mrs. Rezai and on their marriage. 
I wish to take a moment, Mr. President, to provide something by way of background to this somewhat complicated case and to explain the urgency of this legislation. Mr. Rezai first came to the United States in 1986. On June 15, 1991, he married his current wife, Julie, who is a U.S. citizen. Shortly thereafter, she filed an immigrant visa petition on his behalf. Approval of this petition has been blocked, however, by the application of 204(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Section 204(c) precludes the approval of a visa petition for anyone who entered, or conspired to enter, into a fraudulent marriage. The Immigration and Naturalization Service [INS] applied this provision in Mr. Rezai's case because his previous marriage ended in divorce before his 2-year period of conditional residence had expired. In immigration proceedings following the divorce, the judge heard testimony from witnesses on behalf of Mr. Rezai and his former wife. After considering that testimony, he found there was insufficient evidence to warrant lifting the conditions on Mr. Rezai's permanent residency and, in the absence of a qualifying marriage, granted Mr. Rezai voluntary departure from the United States. The judge was very careful to mention, however, that there was no proof of false testimony by Mr. Rezai, and he granted voluntary departure rather than ordering deportation because, in his words, Mr. Rezai `may be eligible for a visa in the future.' 
Despite these comments by the immigration judge, who clearly did not anticipate the future application of the 204(c) exclusion to Mr. Rezai's case, the INS has refused to approve Mrs. Rezai's petition for permanent residence on behalf of her husband based on that very exclusion. An appeal of this decision has been pending before the Board of Immigration Appeals [BIA] for 3 years. In the meantime, Mr. Rezai appealed the initial termination of his lawful permanent resident status in 1990. In August 1995, the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals denied this appeal and reinstated the voluntary departure order. Under current law, there is no provision to stay Mr. Rezai's deportation pending the BIA's consideration of Mrs. Rezai's current immigrant visa petition. 
Mr. President, there is no question that Mr. Rezai deportation will create extraordinary hardship for both Mr. and Mrs. Rezai. Throughout all the proceedings of the past 6 years, not a single person that I know of--including the INS--has questioned the validity of Mr. and Mrs. Rezai's marriage. In fact, many that I have heard from have emphatically told me that Mr. and 
Mrs. Rezai's marriage is as strong as any they have seen. Given the prevailing political and cultural climate in Iran, I would not expect that Mrs. Rezai will choose to make her home there. Thus, Mrs. Rezai's deportation will result in either the breakup of a legitimate family or the forced removal of a U.S. citizen and her husband to a third country foreign to both of them. 
It should also be noted that Mr. Rezai has been present in the United States for more than a decade. During this time he has assimilated to American culture and has become a contributing member of his community. He has been placed in a responsible position of employment as the security field supervisor at Westminster College where he has gained the respect and admiration of both his peers and his supervisors. In fact, I received a letter from the interim president of Westminster College, signed by close to 150 of Mr. Rezai's associates, attesting to his many contributions to the college and the community. This is just one of the many, many letters and phone calls I have received from members of our community. Mr. Rezai's forced departure in light of these considerations would both unduly limit his own opportunities and deprive the community of his continued contributions. 
Finally, Mr. Rezai's deportation would create a particular hardship for his wife, who was diagnosed just a few years ago with Multiple Sclerosis [MS]. Mrs. Rezai's doctor has recommended that her husband be designated as her primary caregiver for what is expected to be a lifelong debilitating illness. It is doubtful that adequate medical care would be available should she be forced to return with her husband to Iran or to some other country willing to accept them as immigrants. Finally, her doctor has suggested that severe symptoms and rapid deterioration of Mrs. Rezai's condition are possible as a result of the stress being placed upon her by her husband's protracted immigration proceedings and the uncertainty of their future. 
Mr. President, I firmly believe that we must think before enforcing an action that will result in such severe consequences as the destruction of Mr. and Mrs. Rezai's marriage and the endangering of Mrs. Rezai's already fragile health. The legislation I am introducing today, if enacted, will put an end to what has been a long and drawn-out ordeal for the Rezais by granting Mr. Rezai full permanent resident status. At a minimum, the outstanding questions regarding the propriety of the denial of Mr. Rezai's current immigrant visa petition need to be addressed. With the introduction of this legislation today and its consideration by the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, we can ensure that Mr. Rezai's deportation will be stayed pending the thorough review of these questions by the Board of Immigration Appeals. I urge each of my colleagues to support this immigration bill.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19971009</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Interstate Distribution of State-inspected Meat Act of 1997. This legislation will lift the ban on interstate distribution of State-inspected meat and poultry, providing some long-term relief to our livestock producers and finally ending a long-standing inequity in meat inspection laws that affects about 3,000 meat processors in 26 States. 
In the 1960's, the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act allowed States to implement their own inspection programs. At the time, there remained some uncertainty as to how well the State inspection programs would function, so a provision was included banning meat inspected by States from interstate distribution. There was also a provision included requiring the U.S. Department of Agriculture to periodically recertify that the State programs are `at least equal to' the Federal standards. In the 30 years since this program was instituted, a State program has never failed to achieve recertification. 
Mr. President, today the ban on interstate distribution has clearly outlived its purpose. Instead of protecting the health of our citizens, it only stifles competition in the meat packing industry and impounds the available market to State-inspected plants. Right now, State-inspected ostrich, venison, buffalo, and pheasant are freely distributed across State lines; yet, a perfectly good steak is banned. 
Furthermore, foreign competitors are allowed to send their meat products throughout the United States without regard for State boundaries. These foreign companies do not face a higher standard than our State-inspected processing plants. The only difference is that the State-inspected plants have much tighter oversight by the USDA. There is no reason that U.S. plants should be restricted from competing with foreign countries. 
Monte Lucherini runs a State-inspected plant in Logan, UT. He runs a good business and makes an excellent product, but is still not allowed to do business outside of Utah. He writes: 
I believe that my gross sales would increase 30 to 40 percent. . . . Employment would be increased also. I would need two to three more butchers, and probably five to six more part-time workers. . . . It has always been a thorn in our side that we couldn't service the customers that want our products. 
David H. Yadron runs a state-inspected plant in Orem, Utah. He says: 
By scrimping and saving, this `mom and pop' operation was built to federal standards two years ago. Nevertheless, large companies and foreign competitors enjoy the privilege of shipping their meat products interstate even though our facility and products are equal or superior to theirs. This injustice limits our profitability while providing an unfair marketing advantage to foreign companies and large domestic operations. Unless Congress repeals the unfair prohibition, we could be forced out of business. Conversely, if Wind River grows, then our suppliers, including the local, federal meat inspected packers, would also grow. 
Mr. President, there are restaurants and food retailers in many States that would love to purchase meat products from Utah's State-inspected plants. Utah's State inspection program receives the highest marks possible by the USDA, and many of our plants produce unique and hard-to-find products. Instead of purchasing from Utah, these restaurants and retailers are forced to purchase from foreign competitors, even though the quality of the foreign product is often inferior. 
There is no sense to this, Mr. President; it cuts into the profits of our retailers, raises the prices for our consumers, stifles business for our processors, and limits the market for our livestock and poultry producers. 
Mr. President, the time has come to lift the ban in State-inspected meat and poultry. There is no reason whatever to believe that permitting interstate distribution for State-inspected meat would compromise safety in any way. In fact, I believe we would have even greater assurances about the safety of meat than we do now. The USDA would continue to set and ensure inspection standards. 
I am aware that the USDA has recently begun looking into the merits of lifting the prohibition on interstate distribution, and I am eager to work with the USDA on a workable plan for bringing this law up-to-date. I call on my colleagues to support this effort to introduce equity into the meat packing industry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19971006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased today to introduce the Citizens Access to Justice Act of 1997. Many Members of the Senate have as a paramount concern the protection of individual rights protected by our Constitution. 
One particular right--the right to own and use private property free from arbitrary governmental action--is increasingly under attack from the regulatory state. Indeed, despite the constitutional requirement for the protection of property rights, the America of the late 20th century has witnessed an explosion of Federal regulation that has jeopardized the private ownership of property with the consequent loss of individual liberty. 
Under current Federal regulations, thousands of Americans have been denied the right to the quiet use and enjoyment of their private property. Arbitrary bureaucratic enforcement of Federal and State regulatory programs has prevented Americans from building homes and commercial buildings, plowing fields, repairing barns and fences, clearing brush and fire hazards, felling trees, and even removing refuse and pollutants, all on private property. 
To make matters worse, many property owners often are unable to safeguard their rights because they effectively are denied access to Federal courts. In a society based upon the rule of law, the ability to protect property and other rights is of paramount importance. Indeed, it was Chief Justice John Marshall, who in the seminal 1803 cast of Marbury versus Madison, observed that the `government of the United States has been emphatically termed a government of laws, and not of men. It will cease to deserve this high appellation, if the laws furnish no remedy for the violation of a vested right.' Despite this core belief of John Marshall and other Founders, the ability of property owners to vindicate their rights in court today is being hampered by the overlapping and confusing jurisdiction of the Court of Federal Claims and the Federal district courts over fifth amendment property rights claims. It is also frustrated by localities which sometimes create labyrinths of administrative hurdles that property owners must jump through before being able to bring a claim in Federal court to vindicate their Federal constitutional rights. CAJA seeks to remedy these situations. Let me explain. 
The Tucker Act, which waives the sovereign immunity of the United States by granting the Court of Federal Claims jurisdiction to entertain monetary claims against the United States, actually complicates the ability of a property owner to vindicate their right to just compensation for a Government action that has caused a taking. The law currently forces a property owner to elect between equitable relief in the Federal district court and monetary relief in the Court of Federal Claims. Further difficulty arises when the law is used by the Government to urge 
dismissal in the district court on the ground that the plaintiff should seek just compensation in the Court of Federal Claims, and is used to urge dismissal in the Court of Federal Claims on the ground that plaintiff should first seek equitable relief in the district court. 
This Tucker Act shuffle is aggravated by section 1500 of the Tucker Act, which denies the Court of Federal Claims jurisdiction to entertain a suit which is pending in another court and brought by the same plaintiff. Section 1500 is so poorly drafted and has brought so many hardships, that Justice Stevens, in Keene Corporation versus United States, 113 S.Ct. 2035, 2048 (1993), has called for its repeal or amendment. CAJA would resolve the jurisdictional muddle by both repealing section 1500 and by eliminating the Tucker Act shuffle, thereby granting to both courts concurrent jurisdiction to fully adjudicate takings claims. To assure uniformity in property rights law, appeals from both courts would be heard by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. 
Adding to this jurisdictional problem, is the misapplication by many courts of the finality doctrine. These courts have required claimants to jump through endless administrative, appellate and other hoops, sometimes created by agencies to retard the legitimate use and development of property, before these courts will adjudicate claims. This has resulted in increased costs to the taxpayers and has impeded innocent property owners from vindicating their constitutionally protected rights. Recently, the U.S. Supreme Court in Suitum versus Tahoe Regional Planning Agency--1997, struck as an impermissible burden on property rights such administrative and appellate schemes that make it overly difficult for property owners to protect their rights in court. CAJA would codify the Suitum case, thereby providing courts with guidance on the application of the finality doctrine. 
Finally, I must emphasize that CAJA certainly does not create any substantive rights. The definition of property, as well as what constitutes a taking under the just compensation clause of the fifth amendment, is left to the courts to define. The bill would not change existing case law's ad hoc, case-by-case definition of regulatory takings. Instead, it would provide a procedural fix to the litigation muddle that delays and increases the cost of litigating a fifth amendment taking case. All CAJA does is to provide for fair procedures to allow property owners the means to safeguard their rights by having their day in court. 
I ask for your support to allow just claimants their day in court.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise this evening to say a few words in response to President Clinton's radio address over the weekend about the pace of the Senate's consideration of judicial nominees. In that address, the President chided Members of this body for what he described as `a vacancy crisis' in our Federal courts ostensibly resulting from politically motivated scrutiny of his nominees. 
I will respond for a moment to the myths and distortions that the Clinton administration has engaged in; specifically the myth that there is a vacancy crisis in the Federal judiciary and the myth that there is a Republican slowdown of judicial confirmations. 
There is no vacancy crisis. So far this year, the Senate has confirmed 18 of President Clinton's judges. This brings the total number of Clinton nominees on the Federal bench to 222--that is nearly 30 percent of the active Federal judiciary. There are more sitting Federal judges today than there were through virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations. As of September 26, 1997, just 3 days ago, there were 750 active Federal judges. Now, this figure excludes the approximately 79 senior status judges who continue to preside over and hear cases. 
Yet at this point in the 101st Congress when George Bush 
was President and in the 102d Congress when George Bush was President, by contrast, when President Bush's nominees were being processed by a Democrat-controlled Senate, there were only 711 and 716 active judges, respectively. We have 750 as we stand here today. 
Keep in mind that the Clinton administration is on record as stating that 63 vacancies--a vacancy rate just over 7 percent--is considered virtual full employment of the Federal judiciary, and they were right. Ninety-four vacancies, the current vacancy rate, is a vacancy rate of about 11 percent. So ask yourselves this question, how can a 4-percent rise in the vacancy rate from 7 percent to 11 percent convert full employment into a crisis? 
Moreover, let's compare today's vacancy level, 94, with those that existed during the early 1990's when George Bush was President and the Democrats controlled the Senate. In May 1997 there were 148 Federal judicial vacancies, and in May 1992 there were 117 Federal judicial vacancies. I remember those years. I don't recall one comment about it in the media. I don't recall one television show mentioning it. I don't recall one writer writing about it. Nobody seemed to care. But all of a sudden it has become a crisis today with less vacancies at this time than the Democrat-controlled Senate and Judiciary Committee at that time had. 
I should also note that at the end of the Bush administration, there were 115 vacancies compared to the 65 at the end of the last Presidential election; 115 vacancies, for which 55 nominees were pending before the Judiciary Committee. None of these 55 nominees even received the courtesy of a hearing. 
I have heard all the yelling and screaming here on the floor and in the public media today and by the President on Saturday. In short, I think it is unfair and frankly inaccurate to report that the Republican Congress has created a vacancy crisis in our courts. 
Now, it is also incorrect when we suggest there is a deliberate Republican slowdown of the nominations process. The President pointed out on Saturday, correctly I might add, that he has sent up to the Senate nearly 70 nominees to fill vacant seats on the Federal bench, 68 to be exact. By way of comparison, he notes that the Senate has confirmed fewer than 20 of his nominees, suggesting undue Senate delay in the face of an abundance of qualified nominees. 
But the picture the President paints is less than complete. Of the 68 judicial nominees submitted to the Judiciary Committee this year, nearly half of them, 30 in all, have been nominated just since July 1 of this year. So, factoring in the Senate's August recess, when we were gone for better than 30 days, the Judiciary Committee has had scarcely 2 months to consider virtually one-half of the President's nominees this year. 
Perhaps, then, it is fair to say the delay has been a factor in the face of Senate confirmation. Unfortunately, the delay has to date been largely at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue--at the White House, if you will. 
Even the Administrative Office of the Courts has concluded that most of the blame for the current vacancies falls predominantly with this administration. It calculates that until his most recent rush of nominations, it has taken President Clinton an average of 618 days to name a nominee for a vacancy--nearly twice the time it has historically taken prior 
White Houses. 
By contrast, it has taken the Senate an average of 91 days to confirm a judge once the President finally nominates him or her. In other words, the Senate is carrying out its constitutional responsibilities with respect to the confirmation of judicial nominees more than six times faster than the President. And in recent months, the Judiciary Committee has been moving noncontroversial nominees at a remarkably fast pace. 
Since returning from the August recess, we have already scheduled two nomination hearings. At the first, earlier this month, we considered four of the President's nominees. Tomorrow we will hold a hearing for seven judicial nominees, and in addition a hearing for the President's nominee for Associate Attorney General. Those were scheduled before the President, I think, ever dreamed of giving a speech last Saturday. I should note that the Clinton administration was made aware of this fact prior to the President's address, but he failed to mention that. In addition, we are planning to have another hearing in the next few weeks, so, clearly noncontroversial nominees are being considered at a responsible pace. 
I will concede that some nominations have taken longer than is customary. But in many instances, this has been due to the unfortunate fact that some nominees have not been entirely forthcoming with the Judiciary Committee. In the interest of fairness, I have given these nominees repeated opportunities to fully respond to the committee's inquiries, and when they have done so, we have moved the nomination. Ms. Margaret Morrow is a good example of a nominee who was slowed by her reluctance to promptly answer questions posed by members of the committee. After I spoke with her and urged her to be more forthcoming, her nomination was reported to the floor--with my support, I might add--and I expect her nomination will be scheduled for a floor vote soon. I expect it to be scheduled. It should be scheduled. If people have differences with her, let them express those differences with their votes. But she has been reported by the Judiciary Committee, and with good reason as far as I'm concerned. 
Nevertheless, other nominees have been similarly less than cooperative. While I appreciate and concur in the President's expression of concern for the integrity of our courts, we will all be better served by this administration's renewed commitment to sending up restrained, qualified nominees who respect the essential role that the Senate must play in the confirmation process. We cannot serve that function well when nominees are less than forthright with members of the committee. 
The President was quite correct when he said over the weekend, `This age demands we work together in a bipartisan fashion and the American people deserve no less.' Indeed, they do deserve no less. 
But bipartisan cooperation depends not only on swift confirmations, but qualified and cooperative nominees as well. 
Now, I also want to take a moment to address some of the personal criticisms directed at our majority leader. To suggest that the majority leader has acted irresponsibly with respect to the nominations is just plain wrong. Of 21 judicial nominees reported to the floor by the Judiciary Committee, only 3 remain on the calendar. One was reported within the last 2 weeks. So to suggest that this majority leader is playing games with nominations is not only unfair, it is grossly untrue. 
Now, I have been pleased to have worked, over the past number of months, with White House counsel Chuck Ruff to ensure that the nomination and confirmation process is a collaborative one between the White House and Members of the Senate. I think it is fair to say that after a few months in which the process suffered due to inadequate consultation between the White House and some Senators, the process is now working rather smoothly. I think the process is due to the White House's renewed commitment to good faith consultation with Senators of both parties. 
Now, I think it is important to note that I believe the Senate is doing its best to move nominees and to move them quickly. If we have noncontroversial nominees submitted, we can move them quickly. If and when the administration sends us qualified, noncontroversial qualified nominees, they will be processed fairly and promptly. In the last 6 weeks or so, the administration has finally began sending us nominees which I have, for the most part, found to be quite acceptable. Take Ms. Hull, who was nominated for a very important seat on the Eleventh Circuit. That is a circuit court of appeals judge. She was nominated on June 18, she had her hearing June 22, and was confirmed on September 4. That is a remarkably fast turnaround for both parties, the White House and the Senate. Or Mr. Alan Gould from Florida, who was nominated in February. We completed his paperwork and our review in March and April. He had a hearing shortly thereafter in May, and was reported out in committee and confirmed before the Fourth of July recess. Another good example is Janet Hall, from Connecticut, who was nominated to the U.S. District Court on June 5, 1997. The Committee had a hearing on July 22, and she was confirmed September 11. Clearly, when it comes to new noncontroversial nominees, we are in fact proceeding with extraordinary speed and diligence. 
Now, more controversial nominees take a little more time. Of the 69 individuals nominated in this Congress, only 43 have been new. The other 23 are renominees that were nominated but never confirmed in the last Congress. Some have had committee consideration, but most of the nominees with completed paperwork who have not yet had consideration are ones who were renominated from the last Congress. When the administration simply sends back nominees who had problems last Congress, it takes much more time and it is much more difficult to process them, and they know it. 
I am trying to work out the differences between the Senators of the respective States--I might add, Democrats and Republicans--and the White House so that we can move more of these. It was worth pointing out that there was, in nearly every instance, a reason why the Senate confirmed 202 other Clinton nominees, but not these 23. If all we are left with are judges that we are not ready to move, I will not compromise our advise and consent function simply because the White House does 
not send qualified nominees. As I said at the outset, the Senate's advise and consent function should not be reduced to a mere numbers game. The confirmation of an individual to serve for life as a Federal judge is a serious matter and should be treated as such. In fact, we have sent a letter down to the White House and Justice Department and explained the problem with each nominee, and they understand perfectly well why some of these nominees have not moved. When you talk about confirmation numbers, let me compare them to the previous Congresses. As of today, we have processed 24 nominees this year--18 confirmed, 3 on the floor, and 3 are pending in committee. Now, not all of these judges have been confirmed, but we expect that most all of them will be confirmed fairly promptly. 
Assuming most of these nominees are confirmed, I think any reasonable person could see that our efforts compare quite favorably to prior Congresses in terms of the number of judges confirmed at this point in the first session of a Congress, especially if you look at recent Democrat controlled Congresses. In 1993, there were zero judges confirmed by the Democrat Congress by the end of July of that year. In 1991, 23 judges were confirmed, at a time when there were 148 vacancies--in a Congress controlled by Democrats. In 1989, only 4 judges were confirmed--a Democrat Congress. In 1987, only 17 judges confirmed--a Democrat Congress. I can go on and on. So the plain fact is, we are on track, if not ahead of previous Democrat Congresses. 
Well, I can say so much more, but let me just say this. Some have argued that the Republican leadership is holding up qualified nominees. Let me just point out for the record that there were a number of qualified nominees of President Bush who weren't even given the courtesy of a hearing. For instance, John G. Roberts, Jr., nominated on January 27, 1992, for the vacancy left by the now Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Among his long list of accomplishments, I note, was that he was a former law clerk to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. He had worked at various high level positions at the Justice Department, including serving as Deputy Solicitor General of the United States. He was an outstanding lawyer and he wasn't even given the courtesy of a hearing. 
Another fine nominee was Maureen Mahoney. Keep in mind, we have had some Senators take to the floor here and try to imply that because it has been difficult to get a certain woman nominee through from time to time, that there must be something wrong with the Judiciary Committee for not doing that. Well, take the fine nominee, Maureen Mahoney, nominated for the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Virginia on April 2, 1992. Like Mr. Roberts, she, too, was a well-respected litigator. She clerked for Chief Justice Rehnquist and also served as a deputy solicitor general of the United States. Neither of these exceptionally qualified nominees were able to get a hearing on their nomination. 
I could go on and on. Keep in mind that we have 750 judges on the bench today, compared to in 1991-92 when we had considerably less judges at that particular time--711 and 716, compared to 750 today. Plus, in addition to the 750, we have a number of senior status judges--79 as I recall--who are hearing cases and continuing their work even though they have taken senior status. So there is no crisis. 
Now, having said all of this, I would like to move these nominees who are qualified as fast as we can. I would like them to come up on the floor as fast as they can be brought up. Thus far, the majority leader has virtually brought up everybody we have brought out of the committee, except a couple, and they will be brought up in the near future. Margaret Morrow will have her vote in the Senate. I will announce right here and now that I will vote for her, even though I did have some qualms as a result of her first confirmation hearing and as a result of some of the things that she had said while President of the California Bar Association, and on other occasions during the earlier years. But I have found her to be qualified and I will support her. Undoubtedly, there will be some who will not, but she deserves to have her vote on the floor. I have been assured by the majority leader that she will have her vote on the floor. I intend to argue for and on her behalf. 
I believe that with continued cooperation from the White House, in consultation with Senators up here--keep in mind that this isn't a one-way street. Senators have a right to be concerned about lifetime-appointed judges serving within their areas, their States. Therefore, that is why the Senate has a noble and very important role in this confirmation process. I want to commend the current White House counsel, Charles Ruff for the work he is doing in meeting personally with Senators up here and trying to resolve their difficulties. I think he has made a lot of strides, and I think that is going to be helpful over the long run. 
Mr. President, these are important matters. I do not believe they should be politicized. I think activist judges, whether they come from the right or left, are judges who ignore the law and just do whatever their little old visceral tendencies tell them to do. These are judges who act like superlegislatures from the bench who usurp the powers of the other two branches--coequal branches--of Government, the executive and legislative branches. These are judges who ignore the written law. These are judges who take their own political purposes to what the law should be. These are judges, a number of whom sit on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, who have given me nothing but angst because of their activism. During this last year 28 of 29 cases on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals were reversed by the Supreme Court because of judicial activism. 
Everybody knows that judicial activism is hard to define. But it is not hard to define when you look at some of those cases. Judges do have to try cases at first impression. And when they do, they do have to make decisions, and they have to split the baby, so to speak. But we are talking not about those cases. We are talking about judges who ignore the basic intents of the law, the basic languages of the law, who substitute their own policy preferences for what the law really is. 
When we see judges like that, I tell them they are undermining the Federal judiciary, they are making my job as chairman of the Judiciary Committee much more difficult, and the job of the ranking member much more difficult, and they are doing wrong things. 
It is important that this be brought to the attention of the American people because these judges are nominated by the President. They are confirmed for life. When they retire, they get full judgeship pay the rest of their lives. We need an independent judiciary in this country. There is no stronger voice for an independent judiciary than I. And we do need the lifetime tenure. But when judges ignore the basic laws and substitute their own policy preferences for what the law really is, they are undermining the Federal judiciary, and they are disgraces to the Federal judiciary. 
Frankly, it is time that they wake up and realize that. It is embarrassing to the good judges throughout this country--manifestly embarrassing to them to have some of these judges who just think they are above the law; who think they are above the Constitution; who think they are above the other two coequal branches of Government. 
Thank goodness there are not too many of them in the Federal judiciary. Thank good goodness we have people and a Senator willing to stand up and say, We have had enough. I happen to be one of them. 
Mr. President, these are important issues. The Federal judiciary can determine what happens in this country for years to come. It is important that we have people of the utmost integrity and respect for the law and respect for the rule of law and respect for the role of judging on our Federal benches. 
As long as I am on the Judiciary Committee, I am going to work as hard as I can to see that those are the kinds of people that we get there. I am not so sure it is that important whether they are liberal or conservative, if they will respect the role of judges and respect the rule of law. I have seen great liberal judges, and I have seen great conservative judges. And I have seen lousy ones in both categories as well. 
I just suggest that they respect the role of judging. Judging generally has been pretty good.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the majority leader, after consultation with the minority leader, may proceed to the consideration of House Joint Resolution 94, the continuing resolution, which will be received from the House. 
I further ask unanimous consent that no amendments be in order to the resolution and that the Senate then immediately proceed to a vote on passage of the resolution with no intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I now ask unanimous consent that, notwithstanding the receipt of the continuing resolution, it be in order to ask for the yeas and nays at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 57, S. 459. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee substitute be agreed to, the bill be deemed read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill appear at this point in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until the hour of 10 a.m. on Tuesday, September 30. I further ask that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the routine requests through the morning hour be granted and the Senate resume consideration of the Coats amendment No. 1249 to the District of Columbia appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess on Tuesday from the hours of 12:30 to 2:15 p.m. for the weekly policy conferences to meet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. the Senate will begin 1 hour of debate prior to the cloture vote on the Coats amendment regarding school choice. Following that vote, the Senate will continue consideration of the D.C. appropriations bill with the hope of finishing action on that bill during Tuesday's session. 
The Senate will also consider the continuing resolution tomorrow as well. Therefore, additional votes will occur. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
There being no objection, the Senate, at 6:36 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, September 30, 1997, at 10 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have listened to my colleague from Wisconsin chat about these problems. You know, in all honesty, I wonder sometimes if we do not treat the American public like they are idiots, when in fact the American public is a very smart collective group of people. 
You know, I just do not see why in the world we have to have government interfere with the first amendment privileges of free speech, just to mention one constitutional issue involved here, just because some think there are millionaires in the Senate. There have always been millionaires in the Senate, as far as I know, at least in this century. But there have always been a number of Senators--and there is a great number of Senators here today--who are not millionaires who made it here the hard way, even under this present system, and who will always be able to make it because the American people are not idiots. 
They are smart. They know what is going on. They have the ability to choose between competing candidacies. Every once in a while you know some of us worry about it because of some people who make it here, but, in all honesty, it seems to me that to put another layer of Federal regulations on what people can say and do in politics is not the way to do it, and it presumptively seems to believe that the American people do not have the capacity collectively or individually to make right decisions for themselves with regard to politics. 
The thing that I find heinous and offensive in the current political structure is that we have all kinds of advocacy groups out there, some of which support only one party to the exclusion of the other, who spend millions and millions of dollars that are never reported in this political process. 
I will just cite with particularity one group. I remember when the AFL-CIO decided they were going to spend $35 million in advocacy during the last campaign. Now, we Republicans all understand that because virtually every penny of that goes for liberal Democrats. The only Republicans that they ever support --and there are very few of those; and if there is a moderate-to-liberal Democrat, they will support the Democrat every time over even a liberal Republican for the most part--very few of the liberal Republicans are supported by them, but if any are, they have to be very liberal. 
So virtually every dollar of the union movement goes into liberal Democratic Party politics. But $35 million is a drop in the bucket because the Congressional Research Service mentions that in every 2-year election cycle the trade union movement puts between $100 and $500 million into the political process, not one penny of which is reported in any filing or disclosure form. 
There is nothing in the Republican Party that comes close 
to that type of economic leverage, and yet I have to say McCain-Feingold does absolutely nothing about that. There is good reason for it, because you would be restricting the right of the trade union movement in this country to express their viewpoints with regard to their political beliefs. But you are not talking about distortion. 
Mr. President, $100 to $500 million every 2 years in local, State, and Federal politics, not one penny of which is reported. The $35 million was reported because those were direct contributions to individuals, or actually most of it was not reported because most of it was soft money that was used to advocate for Democratic, liberal Democratic Party politics. 
In fact, ask conservative Democrats how much union money they get as a general rule. Not very much. So you know, I sometimes think that we beat our gums in here over what appear to be on the surface important principles but which really in reality would undermine the very constitutional process that we have. 
In that regard, let me just mention that I think one of the most prescient articles on this subject ever written was written by George Will in the Washington Post yesterday. I know it has been mentioned here on the floor before. But let me just read a little bit from that article. 
I did not come here wanting to talk about campaign finance `reform,' but I did want to say these few remarks. But I did read this today, and I brought it with me. He just says, `Here Come the Speech Police,' which is the title of the article--`Here Come the Speech Police.' George goes on to say: 
Almost nothing that preoccupies Washington is as important as Washington thinks almost all its preoccupations are. But now Congress is considering some version of the McCain-Feingold bill, which raises `regime-level' questions. It would continue the change for the worse of American governance. And Washington's political class hopes the bill's real importance will be underestimated. 
With a moralism disproportionate to the merits of their cause, members of that class--including the exhorting, collaborative media--are mounting an unprecedentedly sweeping attack on freedom of expression. Nothing in American history--not the left's recent campus `speech codes,' not the right's depredations during 1950s McCarthyism or the 1920s `red scare,' not the Alien and Sedition Acts of the 1790s--matches the menace to the First Amendment posed by campaign `reforms' advancing under the protective coloration of political hygiene. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just quote a couple of other paragraphs because I think this article really sums it up. I do not know how anybody could disagree with this article. I am skipping over quite a bit of it which I think is worthy of consideration by anybody, but let me just read a couple more paragraphs: 
The political class is not sliding reluctantly down a slippery slope, it is eagerly skiing down it, extending its regulation of political speech in order to make its life less stressful and more secure. Thus is the First Amendment nibbled away, like an artichoke devoured leaf by leaf. 
This is an example of what has been called `the Latin Americanization' of American law--the proliferation of increasingly rococo laws in attempts to enforce fundamentally flawed laws. Reformers produce such laws from the bleak, paternalistic premise that unfettered participation in politics by means of financial support of political speech is a `problem" that must be `solved.' 
One reason the media are complacent about such restrictions on (others') political speech is that restrictions enhance the power of the media as the filters of political speech, and as unregulated participants in a shrunken national conversation. 
What a comment, terrific comment. And it sums it up pretty well: 
Has the newspaper in which this column is appearing ever editorialized to the effect that restrictions on political money--restrictions on the ability to buy broadcast time and print space and other things the Supreme Court calls `the indispensable conditions for meaningful communication'--do not restrict speech? If this newspaper ever does, ask the editors if they would accept revising the First Amendment to read: 
`Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of the press, but Congress can restrict the amount a newspaper may spend on editorial writers, reporters and newsprint.' 
As Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican, and others filibuster to block enlargement of the federal speech-rationing machinery, theirs is arguably the most important filibuster in American history. Its importance will be attested by the obloquies they will receive from the herd of independent minds eager to empower the political class to extend controls over speech about itself. 
What an article. He sums it up better than anybody I know. Frankly, I commend this article to anybody who cares about free speech rights, that this bill, as modified, would eviscerate. 
I don't quite agree with George Will, that this may be the most important constitutional filibuster in history, but it is certainly one of the most important. I know of others that have been, I think, equal in importance, not the least of which is the debate we had on the resignation of the President a few years ago. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Hatch-Wyden amendment, number 1182, modifies FDA's mission statement contained in S. 830. 
For the first time, this legislation puts into statute a mission statement for the Food and Drug Administration. Because of its important public health role, Congress needs to give FDA the proper mission. 
In short, the Hatch-Wyden amendment charges FDA to act in partnership with the public, scientific experts, and regulated entities as the agency performs its critical public health mission. The language of our amendment simply makes explicit what is already implicit, proper, and, in fact, necessary: that FDA should work, `in consultation with experts in science, medicine, and public health and in cooperation with consumers, users, manufacturers, importers, packers, distributors, and retailers of regulated products.' 
As longtime advocates of modernizing and reforming the FDA, Senator Wyden and I are convinced that this amendment will help FDA improve and protect the public health. Regulators can increase their effectiveness if they act more closely in concert with the public that they serve. 
As Vice President Gore, the leader of the administration's Reinventing Government initiative, has said: 
We can put the days of almighty holier-than-thou, mister-know-it-all Washington behind us. We can become partners.' 
Business owners and local governments are noticing the changes, too, as the federal government becomes more of a partner and less of an adversary. 
Regulatory agencies are on orders to make partnership with business their standard way of operating. We have tested it long enough to know it increases compliance * * * Now we can move beyond pilot programs for partnership into the mainstream. 
The purpose of the Hatch-Wyden amendment is to inject this spirit of partnership right into the FDA mission statement. Giving such prominence and visibility to the idea of partnership can help the agency better fulfill its public health mission. 
In no way does the Hatch-Wyden amendment limit, or is intended to limit, FDA from carrying out its enforcement obligations. The Hatch-Wyden amendment does not concern itself with particular regulatory decisions, that is, product approvals, enforcement sanctions, etc., rather it simply clarifies that as part of the general manner in which the agency conducts itself, FDA should work closely with those affected by its regulatory actions. 
We are informed that the FDA is supportive of this amendment so long as language is added to make clear that the Secretary has discretion to see that only appropriate interactions between FDA and outsiders take place. We have incorporated this change. 
In order to fulfill its current statutory responsibilities FDA routinely solicits advice from dozens of standing advisory committees of outside experts and consults with its colleagues at the National Academy of Sciences, the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and many others. Similarly, FDA works closely with consumer groups such as patient advocacy groups and various regulated entities such as manufacturers of foods, drugs, cosmetics and medical devices. 
In fact, S. 830 contains many particular provisions that detail partnerships between FDA and others such as the reauthorization of the user fee provisions for new drug review, and the rules that grant access to experimental drugs for patients suffering from serious or life-threatening conditions. 
In March 1997 testimony to the Senate Labor Committee, Dr. Michael Friedman, the highest ranking FDA official, observed: 
One of the themes that runs throughout the Agency's efforts to improve its performance of involving all stakeholders both in defining the problems that exist and in developing appropriate solutions. 
While this amendment is philosophical and exhortatory in nature, we believe this philosophy, if adopted, can achieve tangible benefits for the FDA and pubic alike. As Lead Deputy Commissioner Friedman testified: 
This model of public participation . . . is most clearly delineated in the procedures the Agency has promulgated for the issuance and use of Agency guidance documents. Concerns about the absence of public input on guidance documents and the inappropriate application of such guidance raised in a Citizen's Petition . . . and were the subject of a [House] hearing. . . In response to these concerns, the Agency undertook a thorough review . . . We found inconsistencies and lack of clarity, and we set about to fix it. 
As the FDA's testimony indicates, there is reason to believe that encouraging the agency to interact appropriately with the public can have practical benefits. 
We firmly believe that if the Congress formally embraces the principle of partnership in the FDA mission statement we will help create an atmosphere conducive to improving the public health. Accordingly, I hope my colleagues will support giving the FDA a 21st century mission statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the second amendment we are considering, No. 1183, will encourage the prompt and complete reporting of potentially vital public health information to the FDA. 
Essentially, my proposal codifies a rule that already applies to drugs and medical devices and makes it applicable to all FDA-regulated products. 
Specifically, my amendment would codify the liability disclaimer provisions that appear at 21 CFR section 803.16, for devices; 21 CFR section 314.80(l), for new drugs; and, 21 CFR 312.32(e), for investigational new drugs. 
My amendment is closely patterned after these three provisions of existing regulation. 
The public health benefit and rationale for my amendment are simple: A rule that encourages reporting to the FDA of any alleged adverse incident now and resolving liability issues later, helps the FDA achieve its public health mission. 
The FDA is a public health agency, not an arbiter of tort liability. That is the job of the courts. 
But what is important for the public health is that FDA be able to receive quickly and completely raw data pertaining to adverse experiences with products under its regulatory purview. 
Please understand that my amendment, like the existing regulations, is tort neutral. 
Nothing in my amendment, or in the existing regulations, increases or decreases an ultimate finding of liability. 
The Hatch amendment simply says that the mere filing of an adverse reaction report or submission of other information to FDA does not necessarily reflect an admission of fault or a finding of liability on the part of a manufacturer or the Federal Government. 
Of course, the actual information contained in the report may, or may not, justify a finding of liability but that is an entirely other matter. 
What this amendment says is that the mere filing of a report does not automatically mean anything with respect to the issue of liability. 
This is a public health amendment that encourages timely reporting and complete reporting to the FDA. 
Let me give a little background into the amendment and the existing FDA rules that it builds upon. 
Back in mid-1980's when FDA issued proposed and final rules governing mandatory reporting for adverse incidents with respect to medical devices, a concern arose among those subject to these new reporting requirements. 
In particular, there arose concern about the tight reporting timeframe for reporting deaths and serious injuries. 
The argument was that medical device firms should have an opportunity to conduct fully its own investigation into alleged malfunctions of its products before turning over these reports to FDA. 
After all, went the argument, this information which may have come from interested third parties--such as doctors and patients--could place the manufacturing firm in a precarious position vis-a-vis liability. 
Inevitably, some reports will contain inaccurate information but regardless of this it is clear that the FDA had an overriding public health interest in getting this information as quickly as possible to see whether a national trend was developing. 
The way this matter was resolved in the final medical device reporting rule was with the inclusion of language that permitted manufacturers to disclaim liability based solely on the filing of the report with the FDA. 
To be sure, the information contained in the report might be used to establish, or help 
establish, liability on the part of the manufacturer. That depends on what is in the report and the veracity of that information. 
What the rule says simply is that the mere filing of the legally required report in and of itself does not establish liability. 
One can easily imagine a case where a device malfunctioned and the MDR report does, and should properly be used to, establish liability. An example would be a case in which a heart pacemaker short circuited and failed. 
On the other hand, there will be occasions when required reports do not necessarily establish any fault on the part of the manufacturer. An example of this might include a case in which a medical scalpel is used as a murder weapon; an unfortunate, legally reportable event no doubt, but not one likely to establish fault on the part of the manufacturer. 
Building on the success of the disclaimer statement in the medical device rule, the FDA later included similar language both for approved and investigational drugs. 
Once again, the rule advances the FDA's public health mission by helping to get information to the FDA in a timely and complete fashion. 
The Hatch amendment codifies the basic regulation that now applies to mandatory reports that device and drug manufacturers now must make and establishes this basic principle of `report now, resolve liability issues later' for all products under the FDA's regulatory domain. 
This would include products like foods, cosmetics, and dietary supplements, as well as drugs and devices. 
So, I have drafted the amendment to cover situations where there are no rigorous mandatory reporting requirements, such as those which now govern drugs and devices. 
For example, we have heard a lot in the press recently about the Chesapeake Bay outbreak of Pfiesteria. Obviously, it would be in the public interest for the Government to have reports about the incidence of this toxic microbe. That is something we would want to encourage. 
I believe that it is more likely this information, even sketchy third-party, unverified reports, would be transmitted to FDA if this disclaimer clearly applied in this situation. 
What is good policy for drugs and devices, is also good policy for foods, cosmetics, dietary supplements, and other products under FDA's jurisdiction. 
The Hatch amendment embraces the `report now/resolve liability later' rule that is already in place by regulation for drugs and medical devices and applies this principle for all FDA-regulated products, and further applies the provision both to mandatory and voluntary reports. 
This is a consumer-friendly, FDA-friendly, tort-neutral provision and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Record reflect the fact that amendment No. 1182, as modified, which was adopted was a Hatch-Wyden amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, there is an old saying, `No good deed goes unpunished.' And it applies only too well to those who tackle the job of shepherding the FDA legislation through Congress. 
The legislation we are debating today has its foundation in the last Congress. From my experience, I know that FDA bills are inherently contentious and complicated--and that would be true even if my friend from Massachusetts, Senator Kennedy, was not on the Labor Committee. Sometimes I believe that it was this FDA bill that drove our good friend Nancy Kassebaum out of the Senate. 
So we should all take off our hats and thank Jim Jeffords for his efforts in forging this important compromise bill. The overwhelming votes on cloture and on the motion to proceed are testament to the fact that S. 830 is a solid piece of bipartisan legislation that will benefit the American public for years to come. 
Every Member of this body understands only too well the necessity of having good staff. Our staffs work long hours in order to resolve very difficult issues. I commend the work of all of the staff involved in the development of this bill. I will defer to tradition and allow the chairman and ranking member to single them out when the bill achieves its final passage. 
However, I do want to depart from tradition for a moment to compliment the work of Senator Jeffords' point person on FDA reform, Jay Hawkins. It is always safe to bet against the passage of FDA legislation, but Jay joined the Labor Committee this past winter and hit the ground running and has helped the chairman in crafting and bringing S. 830 through the committee and onto the floor. 
Jay has worked hard, listened patiently to diverse viewpoints, identified and solved problems, and has exhibited sound judgment and tremendous energy throughout this process. 
Unfortunately for Jay and his family, on August 20, his mother, Mrs. Donna Lotz Hawkins, died after a long battle with cancer. Jay's mom was a mountain climber, ocean swimmer, and distance runner who had many friends that will deeply miss her. 
The loss of a parent can never be replaced. While I never met Jay's mom, as a parent I know that she must have been extremely proud of her son for all of his important work in the Senate. 
It is only fitting that this bill, which has so much of Jay's imprint, promises to speed the development of the next generation of cancer treatments. 
I just wanted to take these few moments to salute Jay and the chairman for their considerable efforts on the FDA bill, and I want to extend my condolences to the Hawkins family on the loss of his mother. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. DAMATO addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to praise my good friend Senator Slade Gorton for his efforts in putting together this important legislation. It is particularly important to my state, where over 70 percent of our land is owned or managed by the Federal government. 
My colleagues will recall that one year ago, President Clinton stood on the edge of the Grand Canyon in Arizona and designated 1.7 million acres of Utah as the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Since that time, we have been discussing the future of this monument and what the short and long term impacts will be to my state and the surrounding communities. There are many questions and concerns that remain to be addressed. But, I am confident that during the next two years, the Bureau of Land Management will develop a management plan which properly and effectively addresses these matters. For this reason, I am pleased that H.R. 2107, the Interior Appropriations bill, includes $6.4 million for the planning, management, and operation of the new monument. 
Mr. President, regardless of where public opinion eventually comes down on this new monument and the controversial way in which it was created, we should not forget the important lessons we have learned from the experience. When citizens are deliberately excluded from government deliberations that so directly impact their homes, communities, schools, and families, damage is done to the very institution of democracy. This is what happened prior to last September 18. Unfortunately, the message received by the people of Southern Utah last year was that the federal government knows best and has the right to impose its narrow vision without regard to those most affected. 
I am confident that we can go forward from here and begin the process of rebuilding the trust we lost one year ago. A vital part of this rebuilding process is the inclusion of those parties directly affected from the monument's designation in the development of the monument's management plan. The Committee Report accompanying H.R. 2107 directs the BLM to continue its cooperative efforts with state and local governments and the citizens of Utah in the plan's development. While the Report gives specific and practical direction to the BLM, the language also provides the agency with the flexibility its needs to address the unknowns that will invariably arise in the early stages of this sweeping process to develop a management plan. 
I would like to state for the record that I am pleased with the progress made so far by the BLM in working with the local communities. I am particularly glad to see that collaborative efforts have been formed between the federal agencies and the local communities involved, specifically Kane and Garfield counties, where the monument is located. The cooperative agreements that we renegotiated earlier this year are a good start. They provide for continued local participation in the development of the monument's management plan as well as in the actual delivery of visitor services. 
Mr. President, we have learned in the West that the best manner to implement successful land policies is to involve the communities that are directly affected by them. Wherever possible, we should proceed in the spirit of a partnership between the affected local governments and the national government. This is especially true with the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, where many of the local citizens have their entire lives invested in this region. They want to see the Monument developed; they want to see it succeed. They deserve a seat at the planning table, and I am pleased the BLM is sensitive to this issue. In the end, the residents of the area will be providing the necessary services to visitors. 
In closing, I would like to commend the Chairman of the Subcommittee, Senator Gorton, and especially my colleague, Senator Bennett, for their diligent efforts on the Appropriations Committee to ensure that the necessary funding and direction will be there to help make the monument a success for all involved. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to discuss a matter related to the pending legislation in that it concerns a study commissioned by the Bureau of Land Management. 
As my colleagues know, last September, President Clinton invoked the authority granted under the Antiquities Act of 1906 to create the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southern Utah. The total acreage contained within the new monument is 1.7 million acres, or approximately an area the size of the states of Connecticut, Delaware and Rhode Island combined. This action, undertaken behind closed doors and without any input from the public, including the Utah congressional delegation or Utah's governor, has caused considerable upheaval throughout my state. I say this not because we are opposed to the designation of national monuments, but because of the process utilized to designate the monument and because of the short and long term impacts to the local communities and their economies which, unfortunately, are currently unknown. 
Those of us in Congress are working with the State of Utah and the Clinton Administration to develop a management plan for the monument that meets the needs of the managing agent--the Bureau of Land Management (BLM)--the state, and the surrounding communities. I am grateful that the report accompanying this year's Interior appropriations bill includes language to address these needs, and I wish to publicly thank Senator Gorton for his efforts. 
At the same time, I am concerned about the atmosphere existing in my state as it relates to the new monument. The manner in which the monument has been designated has created a high level of mistrust among certain parties. Unfortunately, there is considerable disinformation circulating throughout the affected areas that compounds this problem and fans the fire of antifederal sentiment. To be honest, I can hardly blame them. A major torpedo was launched directly at these rural communities. If such an abuse of federal executive power ever occurs again, it will be too soon. 
Yet, while the citizens of my state remain angry and disillusioned regarding this entire episode, they understand it is fait accompli. As I anticipate the planning for the future of this new monument, including the preservation of Utah's existing rights as promised last year by the President and the equitable exchange of state trust lands captured within the monument's boundaries, it is critical that an environment of trust be created among all parties involved in this process. That environment must be established first by ensuring that the basis for decisionmaking is accurate and comprehensive. 
Earlier this year, the BLM released a study prepared by BXG, Inc., a private contractor, entitled `Kaiparowits Plateau--Coal Supply and Demand.' This study discussed the marketability of the coal reserves of the Kaiparowits Plateau, which are located entirely within the Grand Staircase-Escalante Monument, and which are technically unreachable because of the monument's existence. Personally, I believe it is an abuse of the Antiquities Act to designate a monument simply to prevent a coal mine from being developed, but that is what has happened in this case and one of the primary reasons why the President signed this order acted in the fashion he did almost one year ago. Several pending lawsuits will determine if, indeed, this has been an unwarranted extension of the Antiquity Act's authority. 
In the meantime, the BXG study concludes that the Kaiparowits coal is of poorer quality and higher cost than current reserves located in the Wasatch Plateau and the Book Cliffs. As a result, they conclude that Kaiparowits coal will have little or no demand until at least the year 2020. These conclusions by BXG, and as far as I know, supported by the BLM, are erroneous and cannot go unchallenged. 
The Director of the Utah Geological Survey recently analyzed this study and found that BXG used numerous invalid assumptions as it prepared its study. 
For example, estimates of recoverable coal reserves in the Kaiparowits Plateau were based on recovery amounts in the Appalachian coalfield, a region with vastly different geology and history of operation. Kaiparowits coal recovery would be at least twice that of the Appalachian region. 
Also, the study assumes an average coal quality for Kaiparowits coal instead of the quality of the coal that would actually be mined. The quality of coal produced from Kaiparowits would be comparable to compliance coal currently mined in central Utah. 
And, the productivity for a Kaiparowits mine was based on the average productivity rate for all western long wall mines during 1990-95. Historically, Utah underground mines are the most productive mines in the U.S., and the nature of the Kaiparowits deposits would likely make the new mines more productive than any others in the region. 
Finally, the thick flat nature of Kaiparowits coal seams and their shallow overburden would lower costs for development, not increase them, as assumed by BXG. 
There are other deficiencies in the BXG study that have been identified which I will refrain from mentioning here. 
In sum, energy experts for the State of Utah using assumptions that are more appropriate for the resource characteristics and market conditions of the Kaiparowits Plateau coal fields have demonstrated that coal mined from the Kaiparowits Plateau is of sufficient quantity and quality, and would likely have production costs that would make it an economically viable source of future supply for many utility and industrial markets in the West. What we have here may be a disagreement of what the facts mean among experts.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me say to my good friend from Washington, Senator Gorton, and the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, Senator Byrd, that it seems to me, in light of the scientific disagreements between the recently conducted BXG findings and the ongoing data collection and analysis by the Utah Geological Survey, there is sufficient reason to revisit the BXG study regarding the Kaiparowits Coal Basin located in the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Do my colleagues from Washington and West Virginia agree that the significant disparate findings of these studies warrant additional review before the BXG work is accepted as fact? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleagues for their responses. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as the Senate considers the Interior appropriations bill, H.R. 2107, I want to comment briefly about a small but very important provision in the bill that will provide $100,000 in Federal money to renovate the Montezuma Creek Health Clinic in Montezuma Creek, Ut. 
The Montezuma Creek Clinic is located in the rural community of Montezuma Creek in the southeastern part of Utah in San Juan County. This community serves as the population center for the eastern portion of the Utah Navajo region which is home to more than 6,000 Navajos who live on and around the Navajo Reservation. 
This area also has one of the most critical health care shortages in Utah and, in fact, in the entire region of the western United States. 
Located in the heart of this community is the Montezuma Creek Health Clinic which was initially operated by the Indian Health Service [IHS] to serve the Navajo population. 
Today, the clinic principally serves the 6,000 Navajos as well as the non-Indian population who live in southeast Utah and northeast Arizona. The clinic is presently operated in a cooperative effort between the Utah Navajo trust fund as the owners of the clinic facility, the San Juan County Health Care Services as the county provider of health services, and the IHS which provides contract support services. 
It is ironic that there is only one IHS facility located in the entire State of Utah when neighboring States have as many as a dozen or more facilities each. The only IHS facility in Utah is an outpatient facility at Fort Duchesne which is located over 350 miles away. 
It is obvious that the health care needs for this segment of the Utah Native American population are greatly under-served. 
For over 3 years, I have worked with the IHS, the Utah Navajo trust fund, the State of Utah, the Aneth Chapter of the Navajo Nation, San Juan County and many other concerned parties in an effort to improve the delivery of health care for the residents of this community. 
Unfortunately, it has not been an easy task. 
The Federal budgetary pressures on facility construction projects within the IHS budget have prevented federal dollars for the construction of a new Facility at Montezuma Creek. 
Moreover, the current IHS facility's priority list--which includes construction funding for projects on the priority list--has as a practical matter precluded the addition of new facilities for Utah. This is very unfortunate for the community of Montezuma Creek. It seems that Utah has always been short-changed when it comes to IHS and IHS-related health care services in our State. 
And, I would remind my colleagues that the health status of Utah Navajos living in San Juan County is lower than the Utah Native American population in general which, overall, is even lower than the Native American population as a whole. 
In spite of the difficulties, the Montezuma Creek Clinic continues to operate and provide life saving health care services to the community albeit in the facility that is clearly outdated and in need of renovation. 
Although the facility is functional, it is in poor condition and inadequate for the provision of needed services to the 65 to 110 patients served on a daily basis. In addition, there is a need to bring the facility into compliance with modern building codes for medical facilities. 
Accordingly, I am delighted that the Interior bill contains Federal funds in the amount of $100,000 for design and construction purposes in renovating the existing facility. 
Moreover, these funds will be matched dollar for dollar by the State of Utah and the Utah Navajo trust fund to collectively bring the total to $300,000. It is my hope that the Federal commitment of $100,000 will also prompt private contributions from those national corporations operating in San Juan County. I believe with the collective support and backing of all parties we will be able to set in motion much needed improvements in health care for the residents of Montezuma Creek. 
I also want to thank my good friend and colleague from Utah, Senator Bennett who, as a member of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, was extremely helpful in securing these funds for this project. 
Moreover, let me thank the distinguished chairman of the Interior Subcommittee, Senator Gorton, for agreeing to this modest request and including it in the bill. 
I must say that I am delighted we are finally able to help this clinic. 
A great deal of time and effort has been devoted by many people in securing both the needed money and the cooperative arrangements for carrying-out this project. 
In addition to Senator Bennett and Senator Gorton, I want to thank Judy Edwards with the Utah Department of Health, Ed Alter who serves as Chairman of the Utah Navajo trust fund in which the combined funding will be deposited, Mark Maryboy with the Aneth Chapter of the Navajo Nation--Utah--and Donna Singer with the Montezuma Creek Clinic. 
I look forward to working with these individuals and others in the months ahead on the long needed renovation of Montezuma Creek Clinic.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970917</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I join with my colleagues in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Since 1968, we have formally recognized and celebrated the tremendous contributions of Hispanic-Americans to the history, strength, security, and development of our great nation. This year, we once again embark on this month-long celebration. It is right to honor more than five centuries of contributions by Hispanics to the development not only of our great nation, but of the Western Hemisphere and the world. 
As I look back on the history of my own State I see the many great contributions Hispanics have made to its development and progress. It was Father Escalante who first chartered the territory of what is now Utah and made way for the major trade routes that followed. It was through the determination, sweat, and dedication of Mexican-Americans and other Hispanics, working alongside nonHispancs that our railroads, great steel plants, and mining industries were established, making our State competitive in national and global markets. And our State is home to many great Hispanic-Americans, past and present, including Antonio Amador, former Vice-chair of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board; Judge Andrew Valdez, Maria Garciaz, the executive director of Neighorhood Housing Services, Inc.; and John Medina, chair of Utah's Coalition of La Raza. 
My experience has shown me that Hispanics are a strong and proud people, loyal, patriotic, courageous, and dedicated to their families, their country, and their communities. Hispanics have a strong work ethic and tremendous faith in the American dream. They have made great contributions to the advancement of all people in every area, to music, the arts, science, engineering, mathematics, and government. 
I am thrilled to see so many wonderful Hispanic role models help light the way for Hispanic youth to attain the American Dream. 
Jaime Escalante, the Garfield High School mathematics teacher, helped an unprecedented number of Hispanic students prepare for and pass the advanced placement tests in calculus. And, Amalia V. Betanzos, president of the John V. Lindsay Wilcat Academcy, an alternative high school with tremendous success rates, has helped us all to see what faith and encouragement can do for the soul. 
Such great recording artists as Los Lobos, the late Selena, Freddy Fender, and Gloria Estefan have brought joyous latin rhythms into our homes and our hearts. Great authors, like Luis Valdez, Victor Villasenor, and Nicholasa Mohr, and great screen artists like the late Raul Julia, Andy Garcia, Jimmy Smits, Edward James Olmos, and Rita Moreno have entertained while they inspired us. And the leadership and foresight of Permanent United Nations Representative and former Congressman Bill Richardson, and Carmen Zapata, director and cofounder of the Billingual Foundation of the Arts, helps pave the way for our children as they enter the 21st century. 
And, of course, Nancy Lopez, Chi Chi Rodriguez, Pedro Morales, Gigi Fernandez, and Trent Dimas are but five of the great athletes who have shared with us the pride and success born of great sacrifice and a hunger for perfection. We are proud of their 
accomplishments. It is important that, when they win, all America cheers. 
But for all their contributions to the strength of our Nation, many Hispanics have not yet fully shared in the dream. The national dropout for Hispanics exceeds 30 percent--for nonHispanics the rate is 11 percent, and for blacks, the rate is 12 percent--the highest for any ethnic group, and their educational attainment levels are among the lowest for any ethnic group. Hispanic children are most likely to be among America's poor, even though Hispanic males have the highest labor participation rates. Hispanics are most likely to lack health insurance and access to regular health care, yet suffer disproportionately from certain diseases. We must do better. 
As the youngest and fastest growing minority community in the Nation, Hispanics must share equally in the benefits and opportunities of this great Nation, so that our country might grow stronger and compete in global markets. 
For this reason, in 1987, Senator John Chafee and I established the U.S. Senate Republican Conference Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, which now numbers 24 Senators. The task force provides a unique forum for Hispanic leaders to raise awareness and support on the national level for key issues facing the Hispanic community in the areas of education, economic development, employment, and health. The task force is aided by a bipartisan, volunteer advisory committee, for whose service we are very grateful. 
We have made great strides and we continue to progress. But I long for the day when a task force on Hispanic affairs no longer exists because there is no longer a need; because Hispanics will have succeeded in full measure in joining the ranks of the public officials, the managers, the CEO's and presidents of corporations, the teachers, doctors, lawyers, the U.S. Senators, Congressmen, and Presidents of the United States. As we gather this month to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, let us celebrate the accomplishments of this year's Hispanic Heritage Awards: Andy Garcia, Nancy Lopez, Amalia V. Betanzos, Nicholasa Mohr, Bill Richardson, and Carmen Zapata. 
And, let's also give a nod to those many, many other Hispanic-Americans, whose daily contributions often go unrecognized, but whose legacy continues to demonstrate the viability of the American dream.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Would the distinguished chairman yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Many of us have been reading the excellent series in the Washington Post this week about the changing face of the AIDS virus. The article on Monday, if I am correct, highlighted the dramatic gains that have been made with new AIDS therapies, particularly the so-called triple drug therapy or cocktails which seem to have so much promise, at least in the short term. We are all keeping our fingers crossed. 
Could you tell me how the bill addresses this issue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As the original author of the Ryan White CARE Act with Senator Kennedy in 1990, I am extremely pleased to hear of the committee's action to provide such a high level of support for the CARE Act. There is no doubt we have come a long way in the past 7 years. A good deal of that progress has been made because you, Senator Specter, have had the foresight and the courage to provide the funding HHS needs to operate the program. And I hope all of our colleagues recognize that fact. 
But, despite our best efforts at both research and services, AIDS is still a serious problem in the United States. The most promising development we have had in years are the protease inhibitors and the combination therapies which are giving thousands of people literally a new lease on life. In fact, as you have noted, we are now seeing lower mortality rates for individuals for the first time in the history of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
Let me ask you one final question. Are you satisfied that the committee's recommendation for the ADAP program will be sufficient? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Senator for this information. It is clear that we are all going to have to work harder--both the government and the private sector--in making AIDS medications available to those who need them. It is one of the modern paradoxes that the new AIDS drugs can defer an HIV infected individual's progression to disability. Yet, it may only be that the individual can get financial assistance when disabled, a situation we would clearly like to prevent. 
I am aware of a Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America study which indicated that, as of December 1, there were 122 medicines in testing for AIDS. The cost, which the Senator alluded to, is astounding. One company spent more than $1 billion over a 10-year period to develop a protease inhibitor. American technological gains are nothing short than miraculous, but we all have to recognize they are expensive as well. 
I am heartened by the Senator's remarks about funding for the State ADAP programs. I am fully supportive of your efforts and I thank you for your substantial interest in this area. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I hear these cries of hysteria all the time on judges. Let's be honest about it. 
So far this year we processed out of committee 24 nominees. Fifteen have been confirmed. Three will be left after this, and six are pending in the committee. We will have another hearing within a week on another five or six, and another hearing after that. So we are moving ahead quite well. 
Let's understand something. There are more sitting judges today than there were throughout virtually all of the Reagan and Bush administrations, as of right now. As of August 10, we had 742 active Federal judges. 
Let's just be honest about it. In the 101st Congress and the 102d Congress by contrast, when a Democrat controlled Congress was processing President Bush's nominees, there were only 711 and 716 active judges. The fact of matter is that we have not had a White House processing these people very fast. And there are some who have problems. 
Mr. President, we received 13 new nominees just before the August recess, and a few more just a short while ago. They have not even been processed yet. 
We are doing our best. All I can say is that there is room here to realize that we are doing a fairly good job. We can do a better job. But the White House has not been doing its job in a full effect. And, frankly, we still have something like 53 total pending out of the 98 vacancies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I respect the motivation of my colleagues who are offering amendments on the proposed global tobacco settlement tonight. As we all know, the issues surrounding this settlement prove easy to frame, but difficult to resolve. 
I have been listening carefully to this debate, and the timing is very interesting to me. 
Here we are now in September. Everybody would like to see this session end sometime near the end of October, or early in November, at the latest. 
But as far as the proposed global tobacco settlement goes, people around here seem to be assuming it is going to happen when, really, basically, nothing is being done. 
Yet, tonight we are making arguments and amendments on the assumption that something is going to get enacted. 
I would suggest to my colleagues, though, that this discussion is premature. We do not have all the details of the agreement. No one, that is no one, does, not even any of the parties to the agreement has final legislative language. 
We have not even reached a discussion in this body of the most general question we have to answer before we decide if the Senate will consider the global tobacco settlement: do we want to further regulate the use and sale of tobacco products in order to protect the public health and bring a degree of accountability and finality to the surge in tobacco-related litigation. 
More precisely, the question we face during the remaining weeks of this session is whether the global tobacco settlement proposal should be implemented and, after we make that decision, then amendments would be in order. 
Mr. President, I don't think anybody in this body despises the use of tobacco more than I. Frankly, I think tobacco use is wrong, it is deleterious to health, and it basically can ruin people's lives. 
There is no question that--in the eyes of almost every research scientists--tobacco use causes cancer. 
There is no question that it causes cardiovascular, respiratory, and other similar diseases, and still we treat it as though it is a substance that has every right to exist. 
As long as it does have the right to exist as a legitimate business in this country--and I believe that it will continue to be available--then it seems to me that we have to resolve these problems in an amicable, decent manner that is in the best interests of this country. 
As I see it, there is not much happening on the proposed tobacco settlement. 
There is no use kidding ourselves, the $368 billion settlement proposed by the attorneys general and most of the tobacco industry--all except Liggett & Myers--as I understand it, is an interesting proposal. 
There is no question, that offers a substantial sum of money. It is to be paid over a 25-year period and, if my calculations are correct, the tobacco companies will be able to write off about a third of the cost of that settlement at the expense of the taxpayers. 
There are many, many issues that have to be resolved on the tobacco settlement if we are going to have one at all. Let me name just a few of them, in no particular order of importance. 
No. 1 would be an evaluation of the totality of the settlement. That is, as I have said, whether this Congress should 
seize the window of opportunity presented by the tobacco proposal which offers the possibility of significant advances in public health and liability reform. Are the public health gains it offers something we wish to pursue? Are the legal reforms it contains sound public policy? Are the two in appropriate balance? 
No. 2 would be whether the costs associated with implementation of this agreement should be treated for tax purposes as ordinary business expenses? 
Third would be the appropriate role of the Food and Drug Administration in the regulation of tobacco products. This is an extremely complicated issue. It involves an evaluation of the FDA's current legal authority, the regulations FDA has promulgated on youth tobacco use and the Greensboro court decision, and the future authority called for in the agreement. 
The fourth issue is an examination of the constitutional limitations posed by an agreement which some believe abrogates their first amendment, free speech rights. 
The fifth issue is what I call the `show me the money' issue. I challenge anyone to undertake an exhaustive review of the 68-page proposed settlement and then delineate clearly how the $368 billion in funds will be allocated. For example, many participants in the agreement have said there are funds for children's health. On what page? It simply isn't there. 
And even for the amounts stipulated in the agreement, there is no definition of how the funds will be divided among states or parties to the agreement. 
The sixth issue is a consideration of civil justice concerns, such as changing traditional plaintiffs' rights to seek redress through the courts. 
The seventh issue is how those who were not parties to the original agreement will be treated. One company, for example, Liggett & Myers, has now signed agreements with about 25 States and all of the Castano class members. How should those agreements be factored into the settlement? 
The eighth issue is related. Should there be an accommodation for those who manufacture, sell, or use vending machines or for others who have been engaged in legal businesses and have made a livelihood with products or services that might not be continued after a settlement is finalized? 
Here's another important issue. The ninth issue we need to address is that of documents disclosure. Some in this body have called for full disclosure of all tobacco-related documents before any settlement is considered. Others believe we will never get to a settlement if we become enmeshed in an investigation of abuses extending back over 30 years. 
One of the greatest advantages of having a tobacco settlement is the public benefits that may derive from it for our children and indeed our society as a whole. 
As we all know, 3,000 kids start smoking a day--teenagers, that is--1,000 of whom will become addicted over their lifetimes. These numbers are only going up, and it is no secret that part of the reason is that the tobacco industry has basically enticed these kids into smoking. 
Without a tobacco agreement, we will not be able to put meaningful resources into solving these teen tobacco use problems. It is questionable whether we could ever provide the same nationwide incentives or resources to not only slow down teenage smoking, but perhaps end it forever. 
And since we are debating the National Institutes of Health funding bill, I might mention that without the tobacco settlement, we won't be able to have as many funds as we would otherwise have for biomedical research. 
It is also apparent that if we break the cigarette companies, we are not going to be able to have 25 years of continual multibillions of dollars paid into a settlement agreement system for the benefit of our society as a whole. 
There are so many other issues that I hesitate to even begin. But the fact is the proposed settlement is complex, it is difficult, and Congress basically has done nothing about it since it arrived here on June 20. 
It is true we have held three hearings in the Judiciary Committee. They have been interesting hearings. They have enlightened us to a degree. We think we now know the issues involved. We have listened to the attorneys general. We have listened to people representing the tobacco industry. We have listened to constitutional experts. We have listened to health care specialists. 
And, frankly, we are going to hold some more hearings on this. But it seems to me that we need to address the proposed tobacco settlement with a timetable and a process that will literally cause it to be done. We aren't there yet, and piecemeal amendments on an appropriations bill won't get us to that point. 
If the tobacco settlement is not completed by the end of this particular session, I fear we may never have a tobacco settlement. If that is so, we will lose this one-time opportunity to help our children and perhaps to help keep millions of kids from ever starting to smoke or chew tobacco. 
If we lose that opportunity, it will be pathetic. 
It is no secret that the tobacco industry has virtually won every case but one in the history of litigation in this matter. In that one particular case it was a $750,000 verdict. If I understand it correctly, that is on appeal. And that will be dragged out for another 10 years by very, very good lawyers who are very, very capable of doing exactly that. 
So, if we do not move ahead and we don't solve these problems, we are going to find ourselves in a morass where we are right back to business as usual, and the tobacco companies will be making billions of dollars at the expense of the society at large with no help to our young people in this society and not much money for research other than what we can generate through congressional appropriations. In the end, we lose all of the advantages that we could achieve. 
In fact, there are several things which must occur if we are even going to try to move forward to an agreement, or move an agreement forward. 
First, the President of the United States has to get off the dime and start leading on this issue. 
In July, we heard the President would speak out a few days before his planned August 15 vacation. It didn't happen. 
Earlier this week, we heard the President was supposed to speak out about the settlement this Thursday. 
Let's speak the plain truth here. Without the President's leadership, the tobacco agreement can't happen. 
The proposed settlement was announced on June 20. At that time President Clinton called the concessions attained by negotiators from the tobacco industry `unimaginable.' He also tasked top executive branch officials with the job of reviewing the settlement, consulting with the public health community, and advising him on whether or not this agreement adequately protects the Nation's public health interests. 
Eleven weeks have passed with no final word at all from the White House on what, if any, changes the President wishes to see. Almost daily we hear, or so it seems, rumors that the President will speak--only to find out that he does not. 
The President's silence in this area speaks volumes. 
It has been speculated in the press that the President will say that the level of funding needs to be increased, that the FDA's regulatory authority needs to be strengthened, and that there needs 
to be greater accountability on the part of the tobacco companies if the reduction targets are not met, especially among the Nation's teenagers. But this is only speculation at best. 
Should President Clinton support the idea of moving forward, he needs to tell our American people, and he needs to reveal what changes, if any, he deems to be necessary. 
We need the President to speak out and tell us precisely where he stands and whether he believes there should be an agreement, and an agreement this year. 
We need him to help us to understand where we are going on this issue. We need to know how much political capital he is willing to expend on this issue, and we need to know whether he is really serious about solving these problems. 
With 3,000 children starting to smoke each and every day, I don't believe the Clinton administration can afford to delay this any longer. 
Second, I call on parties to the agreement to resolve ambiguities and to help produce legislative language agreed upon by all parties so that Congress can be crystal clear about the details of the proposal and therefore can plan and judge it accordingly. 
If the President chooses to take advantage of this one-time opportunity, the parties to the agreement have a responsibility to settle ambiguous points within the settlement agreement and provide the Congress with their version of the settlement in legislative form. 
Today, I am challenging the parties to the agreement to do so, to provide us with the details of the agreement beyond the 68-page prospectus. 
I, for one, am willing to look at it. I think the other committee chairmen who are involved are willing to look at it as well. We are willing to see if we can mold together an agreement that literally will be in the best interests of the public at large. 
Let me add that several weeks ago I sent the proposed agreement to legislative counsel and asked them to try to draft a bill based on the language of the settlement. We found that these expert draftsmen were presented with more questions than answers. So the parties need to get together and help us to formulate the legislative language. I am calling upon them to do that. If there are problems or ambiguities that have to be resolved, we will help them with that. 
Third, the parties who negotiated this settlement presented it to Congress must also produce others willing to champion this unprecedented public health opportunity. Beyond the several attorneys general, the plaintiffs bar, and public health groups, few have seized on the settlement as a viable option. Major legislation such as the settlement envisions has never been approved absent widespread support. And we aren't there yet, which is another reason why these amendments we are considering tonight are premature. 
The fact is we will not be there without the President and without an awful lot of hard work on the part of all of us here. 
Fourth and finally, we must consider how we resolve this issue of document production. The proposed agreement provides that previously undisclosed documents be publicly disclosed through a national tobacco document depository open to the public and located centrally here in Washington, DC. These documents would include documents from the files of the tobacco companies, including those relating to internal health research, documents that we have not been able to get up until now. 
Any documents already produced in the attorney general actions would be immediately deposited, and additional existing documents would be placed in the depository within 3 months of the enactment of the bill. 
Despite this provision for open disclosure, some in Congress--those who question the settlement most--have proposed immediate disclosure of these documents. The documents in the Minnesota case alone brought by Attorney General Hubert Humphrey, who has testified before our committee, amount to 33 million documents. Such massive disclosure is neither practicable nor possible in the presettlement arena. 
Naturally there are attorneys all over this country who believe that the settlement will never make it through and they are trying to look out for their clients. Internal documents which have not yet been released could be invaluable in such suits. 
But the greater good demands that we look at an agreement which could bring us tremendous public health advances, and it appears that agreement could actually be hindered by an exhaustive investigation of internal tobacco documents. 
I can't blame the cigarette companies for not wanting to produce the documents in advance--although I cannot in any way condone some of their past reprehensible behavior. I simply question whether it is the appropriate role of Congress to conduct discovery for private litigants. 
I think we are all indebted to the negotiators for stimulating a potentially fruitful public discussion on the public health issues attendant to tobacco. 
I commend the States attorneys general, especially those involved in the class action litigation. I commend the public health representatives who have been speaking out, and the representatives of the tobacco industry for advancing the ball in a meaningful direction. 
The climate has been created for the Congress and the public to have opportunities to make significant strides on this whole set of tobacco issues. 
It is clear that the Senate is only in the beginning stages of this process. Five congressional hearings having been held, and more are planned. 
I urge my colleagues to let the process work. Let us move a proposal in the Judiciary Committee. Many of my colleagues here tonight are members of that committee, and we will have ample opportunity for full discussion. 
I just have to doubt if this is the right time and the place, on the Labor-HHS appropriations bill, to be raising these issues that could blow the settlement out of the water. 
I personally believe we ought to move that settlement forward. 
My study has led me to conclude it is a one-time opportunity to do something for our kids in this society. 
It is a one-time opportunity to make significant advances in biomedical research, And it is surely a one-time opportunity to have the tobacco companies fully cooperate in providing all of their internal research for the benefit of the public health at large. 
There are so many benefits that could derive from a decent settlement, if we can formulate one and keep the parties together. 
It is time now for the President to speak out. 
He was supposed to speak out this Thursday. Now they have put it off for another week, knowing that every week that it is put off it is less likely that we can pass something in this Congress. 
Let me make a prediction. I believe that we are going to lose this historic opportunity if we do not seize the opportunity, bite the bullet, do the work that is necessary, get the involvement of the companies, the attorneys general and others who are interested in this process, and come up with a package, that literally, will realize all of the public health gains I have been talking about, and more. 
It is no secret that the tobacco industry may not proceed with the settlement if the North Carolina case, which does indicate that FDA does have some right to regulate in the area of nicotine, is overturned on appeal. Many legal experts say that the Greensboro 
case is iffy at best and that it could very easily be overturned on appeal. In fact, I think there are many good arguments for overturning it on appeal based on present law and our understanding of present law. 
But let me admonish my colleagues that if that case is overturned on appeal, I am not so sure that the tobacco industry is going to proceed with a settlement anyway, because they might just continue to take the risk that juries in the respective States will almost invariably find that those who smoked all of their lives assumed the risk, or were contributorily negligent in doing so. That is why they have won these cases in large measure right up to today. 
I was in Pittsburgh, PA, when the first anticigarette tobacco case was brought, Pritchett versus Liggett & Myers, by the then fabled McArdle law firm. Jimmy McArdle, was one of the leaders, if not the leader in the whole country, in paving the way for tobacco litigation. He scared the daylights out of tobacco companies, but lost, one of few times that great lawyer did not prevail in court. 
So I have watched this litigation for all of these years. If that case in North Carolina is lost, we will lose a major incentive for the tobacco companies to come to the table. 
Or let's put it another way. If Minnesota Attorney General Hubert Humphrey wins his case, the tobacco companies may very well decide not to go forward anyway. Or, conversely, if General Humphrey loses, what is the incentive for the tobacco companies to stay in the deal? 
It would be a message to every other attorney general in the country. Already they have decided to fight right to the end the case brought by the Attorney General of Texas. What is the incentive to continue? 
Right now we have an opportunity for all sides to put something together. The attorneys general have put inordinate amounts of time and effort into this matter, and there is an obligation on our part to try to resolve it. 
But without Presidential leadership, it is very unlikely that we can resolve it. If we have the President's endorsement, then I think we have to have leadership here in the Congress to move forward, and to do what is right. 
No matter what we do, it is going to be difficult because there are those in the Senate and in the House who resent anything done to the tobacco industry. And there are those who feel that anything the tobacco industry wants should be blocked. 
My feeling is that the benefits that could come from a legitimately and well put together tobacco settlement clearly outweigh the desire of some to just kill the industry, when in fact they don't have the tools to do so. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the $368 billion figure has to change. We have to give serious consideration to the tax implications, as some in this body have suggested. We have got to have some clear-cut approach toward FDA authority. 
We have to do a number of things that literally will make that settlement more acceptable. And we have to bring all sides and all parties together, and we have to bring the weight of the Federal Government, the weight of the administration, the weight of the legislative branch of Government, and ultimately the weight of the courts into bringing this all together so that the public at large can benefit greatly. 
Personally, I am willing to devote substantial effort toward that end. I know other committee chairmen, who have various jurisdictional areas in this matter, are willing to work on it as well. 
In all honesty, we are not going to resolve this by bits and pieces in amendments to legislation like this. 
With regard to the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Illinois, let's face it, the language in the Balanced Budget Act was pretty ambiguous. I see any way that language could be binding; it is too ambiguous. 
The language, in my opinion, is not really going to require any tobacco settlement to pay for child health insurance. Nevertheless, it would be nice to clarify that matter, and we could do that in a true tobacco settlement. 
With regard to attorneys' fees, I share some of the view of the distinguished Senator from Alabama. I agree that there should be a limitation. This should not be a ripoff situation where we have a feeding frenzy on attorney's fees. On the other hand, there are attorneys who have worked long and hard and spent a lot of money and a lot of effort and time, and without whom the settlement would not have been brought to this point. They do deserve some compensation for that. 
I think we were all well aware that the issue of attorneys' fees is going to have to be solved in any tobacco settlement that happens. 
I do not believe we can easily solve tonight the problem that has been raised by the Sessions amendment that would retroactively limit attorney fees which have already been a matter of contract between States and private counsels. 
But we can solve the problem as to how much of this money that actually has to be put up over 25 years is going to go for attorneys' fees. 
That is something we are going to have to work to solve. It needs to be done fairly; it needs to be done with wisdom, as with all other aspects of this agreement, in totality. 
The way to do it isn't by nit-picking or just by amendment after amendment in the Chamber. We could literally get into 100 tobacco amendments on just this appropriations bill alone. 
I think the way to do it is to get the President to speak out. Let's keep holding our hearings. Let's get a final legislative draft and look at it. Let's bring the parties together and demand that the attorneys, the attorneys general, the public health groups, and the tobacco companies who originally negotiated the deal work to provide us with a draft. Let's reform and refine that draft, factor in the President's perspective, and the views of others who did not participate, such as the farmers, and let's move forward to resolution of this issue in the best interests of the American people. 
I just wanted to make these comments because I am very upset that we keep playing around with this issue. Frankly, if we let it go beyond the end of this year, it may be very difficult, it maybe impossible, to do next year. 
I ask unanimous consent that Bruce Artim be granted access to the floor for the remainder of the session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield the floor. 
Mr. SPECTER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to attempt something that I know will not fully succeed. I stand to speak to the legacy of Mother Teresa who in my opinion, was one of the greatest of all humanitarians and advocates for the poor, for the unclothed, the unhoused, the ignored, and the forgotten poor of the world--not only the forgotten poor of India but of the world at large. 
Many, of course, have remarked on the striking coincidence that last week we saw the passing of two of the world's most famous women--the Princess of Wales, and the guardian of India's poor, and really the poor of the world. Their association was coincidence. And those who again say that Diana's commitment to the poor, to the sick, and to the maimed simply ignored the profound friendship that had formed between these two remarkable women. As Diana was moved to even greater compassion by the small nun from Calcutta, so were all of us who knew Mother Teresa. 
I don't have a power wall in my personal office--pictures of me with other dignitaries. In my office you will find a lot of paintings. And the only photographs are of my family and one other individual. For years I have had a photo of Mother Teresa and me from one of the several meetings that I was most fortunate to have with her over the years. I met her here in Washington at least twice. And I visited her in Calcutta, and visited her orphanage there. In Washington one time was with a number of others. But the second time was just Mother Teresa and myself and one staff member. 
For me, Mother Teresa embodies the highest commitment to spiritual principles in this very imperfect world. And her memory I will always keep alive to remind me that we can in fact hold spiritual principles deeply relevant to this harsh world. That little nun from Calcutta held the greatest power that 
anyone can have--the power of love. She radiated it through her actions by serving the destitute, the maimed, and the forgotten. 
There have been some trivial criticisms about her--that she didn't address the root causes of the horrible poverty in which she lived. We should never forget the distinction between the abstractions of policy and the practice of charity. We must never lose the humility that recognizes that the policy attempts that governments and their leaders make often fall short while the commitment to love can be endless. And in the end the love given to a homeless child or to a dying street person cannot be legislated. 
I recently heard a particularly telling anecdote concerning Mother Teresa. She was in the ghetto of Calcutta putting salves on the wounds of a desperately sick person. A devout priest who was accompanying her said, `I wouldn't do that for $100,000.' I think maybe it could have even been $100 million. `I wouldn't either,' the dear, wise woman responded. `I do it for Christ.' 
I know that it is considered by some inappropriate to mention anything religious. But Mother Teresa reminded all of us of the great good that all religions do for man. And her Christian compassion will be an inspiration to me as long as I live. 
Mr. President, I will never forget seeing her emotional remarks about abortions and the heinous nature of abortion in our society and in our world today--30 million children aborted just in the history of our country since 1972. I remember her saying, `If you do not want them, give them to me.' She meant it. She took care of the poor, the sick, the maimed, the forgotten, those who were rejected by the rest of the world. She took them to her bosom. She took them to her best ability to help, and, because of her, literally thousands--hundreds of thousands--of people have been helped around the world. And millions know what it is like to do charitable giving. 
Mr. President, God bless the memory of Mother Teresa, as he blessed all of those who knew this woman, who I think will be known as one of this century's most selfless and wonderful humanitarians. 
So I am happy to cosponsor any resolution that supports Mother Teresa. And I hope that all people throughout the world will take her example and realize that all of us in our own sphere, in our own little life, can do a little bit more for our fellow men and women than we have been doing, and use her as an example of one who gave her all for her fellow men and women and children. 
I thank her personally, and that is why I am making these remarks this day. 
I yield the floor.  
Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that we be given an extra 5 minutes past 5 o'clock to make statements. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am offering for myself, Senator Leahy, Senator Specter, Senator Landrieu, Senator Mikulski, and I am sure others, a resolution that designates Saturday, September 6, 1997, as a National Day of Recognition for the Humanitarian Efforts of Diana, Princess of Wales. 
Death is always difficult to accept. It is, however, more difficult when it captures someone in the prime of her life as it has Princess Diana. It is safe to say that events surrounding her death will make us all take a closer look at the handling of this event by the press, its responsibilities, and the role it should play in the future. 
As a mother, humanitarian, and a goodwill ambassador, Princess Diana was an inspiration to many people throughout the world who admired her strength in adversity, her dedication to those less fortunate, and her devoted love to her children. 
The extraordinary outpouring of grief and affection is a true testament to the legacy that she leaves. The stunning array of flowers, candles, and notes in front of the British Embassy is just one indication of the high esteem in which the Princess was held here in the United States. Our country rejected a monarchy a long time ago, but we know a true friend when we see one. 
In a town accustomed to the art of issue advocacy, the Princess of Wales was clearly one of the most persuasive and compelling advocates to have graced our Nation's Capital. Much has already been said about her efforts to raise awareness and attention to breast cancer and AIDS. She recently took up the cause of banning the deployment of antipersonnel landmines. She was informed and articulate and committed to these causes. 
Many people can make speeches, and many people can throw gala benefits. What set Diana apart from others working for these same causes was the gentleness of her spirit. To break the back of intolerance and to help to dispel unfounded notions about AIDS, Diana broke tradition, and held babies afflicted with AIDS in her arms and to offer her hands to comfort AIDS patients. 
We understood that she participated in these activities not just out of a sense of duty but because she genuinely cared. She delighted in children, commiserated with the rank and file, and listened to the elderly or less fortunate. Her vulnerability was also her strength. She could connect with people like few people ever could. She was indeed the people's Princess. 
Although she was a symbol of glamour and celebrity, she taught us all that the quality of life is measured by what you do for others and how you treat others. By that measure, Diana's all too short life was very rich indeed. Her warmth and joie de vivre transcended wealth and power. 
Along with my fellow Utahns and millions of people around the world, Elaine and I were shocked and saddened to hear the tragic news of her untimely and tragic death. We want to extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences and sympathy to her family, and especially to her two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry. 
In offering this resolution, Mr. President, Senator Leahy and I believe it is appropriate to extend the sympathy of all Americans to the people of the United Kingdom on the death of such an extraordinary lady. 
Mr. President, we expect to pass this today and I urge the support of all of our colleagues. 
This is a sad event. This was a sad day. This is a tremendous loss for the world. And this is the least we can do. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970903</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to pay a word of tribute to Dr. Richard Lesher, outgoing president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
Mr. President, it has been my pleasure to know and work with Dick Lesher since I was a freshman Member of the Senate. We have served in the army of free enterprise in many important legislative battles. Dick was a dedicated fighter for small businesses. 
Dick can also be justifiably proud of the growth and success of the U.S. Chamber over the last 22 years. During his tenure as president, the Chamber has grown to 215,000 strong. 
The Chamber has also expanded its information services to include television. `First Business' is carried on 42 local stations, the USA Latin American channel, and USIA's WorldNet. `It's Your Business' is seen on USA Cable Network and 140 stations around the country. 
Dick Lesher also took very seriously the Chamber's responsibility to help educate the next generation of business leaders and created the Center for Workforce Preparation. 
These are just a few of Dick Lesher's many accomplishments as president of the flagship business organization in our country. 
But, Dick is a man we can appreciate as much for who he is as for what he did. I have always known Dick Lesher to be straightforward and honest. He never pulled punches. You knew where you stood. And, even if Dick disagreed on a matter of policy, he admired his opponents' convictions. Such a fair-minded attitude sets the stage for alliances on other issues. And, I have always believed, having genuine respect for everyone on the playing field is not only good business, it is a hallmark of good character. 
Dick is leaving the Chamber to return to his hometown in Chambersburg, PA. I wish him all the best in his new home and, hopefully, more relaxed lifestyle. 
But, while he will be leaving the day-to-day battles on labor and tax policy to his successor, I do not believe for a minute that he is retiring. I know that he will remain informed and engaged in the myriad of issues that affect the health and growth prospects of American business. And, I look forward to his continued counsel and insights. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970902</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate Dr. Larry A. Donoso, M.D., Ph.D., director of research at Wills Eye Hospital, in Philadelphia, PA. Dr. Donoso is a world renowned ophthalmologist, a native son of the State of Utah, and a proud graduate of the University of Utah School of Medicine. 
Recently, Dr. Donoso was honored by the Queens Medical Center at the University of Nottingham, one of the United Kingdom's most prestigious academic medical centers. There they established the Larry A. Donoso Eye Research Laboratory in recognition of his long collaboration in the establishment of the new laboratory, and his efforts to advance eye treatment for patients around the world. He is the first American to be so honored by the Queens Medical Center. Both the city of Philadelphia and the Senate of the State of Pennsylvania have acknowledged the significance of this award, and the breadth of his contributions to the field of ophthalmology. 
Dr. Donoso is being lauded for his vast contributions as a premier research scientist, compassionate medical doctor, and extraordinary teacher. Having graduated from East High School in Salt Lake City, Dr. Donoso received his bachelors degree from the University of Utah in 1965. The School of Medicine conferred his Ph.D. in 1971 and his medical degree in 1973. He also went on to complete his clinical residency training in ophthalmology at Utah before joining the faculty of the Wills Eye Hospital in Pennsylvania. 
Dr. Larry Donoso, or `LD' as his friends affectionately call him, is an extraordinary eye researcher who has worked tirelessly over the last 30 years to advance the reputation of Wills Eye Hospital among the international medical community. His career accomplishments have been honored by the city of Philadelphia, the Senate of the State of Pennsylvania, and the Queens Medical Center at the University of Nottingham in England. I wanted my colleagues to be aware of these outstanding achievements, which, I hope, will serve as inspiration to us all. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to commend the chairman of the Budget Committee, and the distinguished majority leader, on the inclusion of a little noticed provision in this conference report. I am referring to the National Capital Revitalization Act. This provision is, in my view, an important step in cleaning up the District of Columbia and making our Nation's Capital City once again the safe and beautiful place we all expect it to be. 
Among other important changes, this bill completely overhauls the District of Columbia's broken criminal justice system. If implemented properly, I am certain that this legislation will result in a criminal justice system for the District of Columbia that is fairer for the victims of crime, that appropriately punishes criminals, and that incarcerates criminals in a secure, appropriate environment. 
I see that my colleagues from Kansas and Florida are on the floor, and I would like to commend them for their hard work on this issue, as well. They have worked tirelessly to see these provisions included in the budget reconciliation conference report. 
Mr. President, I am committed, as I know my colleagues are, to ensuring that these provisions are implemented in the most effective manner. A number of the provisions in the National Capital Revitalization Act, particularly as they relate to, among other things, the transfer of District of Columbia corrections functions to the Federal Bureau of Prisons and the assumption by the U.S. Parole Commission of parole functions of the District government are issues within the authorizing jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committee. I would like to ask my colleagues, the Senator from Kansas and the Senator from Florida, if this is their understanding, as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their comments, and look forward to working with them as implementation of the National Capital Revitalization Act goes forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, in a different vein than my colleague from West Virginia, I rise to speak in strong support of this historic balanced budget and tax relief agreement. On many occasions I have come to the floor of the Senate arguing the importance of curbing Federal spending and balancing the Federal budget. It is equally, if not more, important that we pass on the benefits of a balanced budget in the form of tax relief to the American people. 
Mr. President, I have long been an ardent supporter of tax cuts for the American people. This bill marks a very decided shift, a dramatic shift from the tax increases that have been prevalent over the past decade. The bill before us represents the first real tax cut in 16 years. It was not easy to get here. We can all remember the partisan budget debates we have had in the past few years. The difference between those bills and the one before us today is the bipartisan cooperation that went into this year's legislation. It is because of unceasing bipartisan effort to end big government and the benefit of a strong and vibrant economy that we can stand here today debating such historic legislation. 
I maintain, Mr. President, that this bipartisanship developed because the American people insisted on it. They reelected President Clinton, but they also reelected a Republican majority in the House and Senate. And I have to say we would not even be debating a balanced budget bill, we would not be debating a tax cut bill if it was not for the Republican majorities in both the House and the Senate. The people who we each have pledged to serve decided that both points of view were necessary to get a balanced Federal budget. Congress and the President finally got the message, and the American people are the beneficiaries. 
The package before us contains a variety of tax cuts that will bring much-needed relief. These tax cuts allow the taxpayers in my home State of Utah and across the Nation to keep more of their hard-earned dollars. This bill provides significant relief through: First, a tax credit for families with children; second, lower capital gains tax rates; third, tax incentives for education; fourth, small business incentives; fifth, increased savings through enhanced IRA's; and sixth, higher death tax exemptions. 
The child tax credit is especially important for America's working families. Raising children in today's world becomes more expensive each year. This family tax credit will put the tax relief where it is needed most, in the pockets of parents with small children. 
This bill also contains a number of proposals to ease the burden for paying for college. I hear again and again from parents in Utah and throughout the country struggling to keep up with the high costs of college for their children. Mr. President, having put six children through college myself, I know exactly what they are going through. This bill will help these families by providing a tax credit for tuition expenses, a deduction for student loan interest and a new education IRA to promote saving for education. There aren't many things in this world that mean as much to us parents as giving our kids an opportunity that perhaps we didn't have or helping them to get along with good education. 
The bill also contains important tax cuts to stimulate economic growth and create new jobs. In the past two Congresses, I have introduced legislation to cut capital gains rates in half. I am extremely pleased that this tax package lowers the capital gains tax rate in half to almost 20 percent. This historical and important change will not only ease the current double taxation of capital income, it will encourage more capital investment and help maintain the strong economic growth that this country has experienced over the past number of years. In fact, ever since the original recession during the Reagan years, we basically have had a good economy. We had a couple of downturns during the Bush years, but the fact is, we are all still benefiting from having cut the marginal tax rates from 70 percent down to 28 percent. 
I might also add that a great deal of the credit should go to the distinguished chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Roth. I remember in those early days in the late 1970's and early 1980's there were a number of us who banded together under the leadership of Bill Roth and Jack Kemp to advance supply-side tax cuts which have proven to be successful. We are still benefiting from the cuts in those marginal tax rates from 70 percent down to 28 percent, still benefiting today, and this administration is benefiting from that. And to blame all of those deficits on Reagan kind of ignores the Great Society programs, kind of ignores the fact that during those years Reagan got his marginal tax cuts but Tip O'Neill got his great spending increases, and, of course, we had to increase spending on the military. Ultimately, because of Reagan and his spending, we actually ended the cold war. And we have saved trillions of dollars because of that. 
I want to pay particular tribute to my colleague from Delaware. Without his leadership, we would not have this bill. We would not have these tax cuts. And I have to say he has been a strong, firm, solid, steady leader in these matters. 
This capital gains tax rate reduction alone is going to prove to be very beneficial to our economy. There are trillions of dollars locked up in capital assets in this economy because people just don't want to pay a 28-percent top capital gains tax rate and corporations don't want to pay a 36-percent rate. Unfortunately, we couldn't do much for the corporations this year because of the limited amount of tax cuts we have negotiated with the President. But we have done a lot for the millions and millions of people, now, many in the middle class--50 percent of whom are in the middle class--who now are getting robbed because of inflated values of their capital assets, which if they sell they are paying taxes on the inflated value rather than the actual value. It wouldn't have happened but for our distinguished chairman of this committee, the distinguished chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Bill Archer, and of course my friend--both friends--Bill Roth, as well. 
This is important. For a long time we have made the case if we cut capital gains tax rates we are actually going to get an increase in tax revenues. I believe over the next 5 years that will prove to be true. Instead of losing actual tax revenues we ought to increase tax revenues. But if all we do is break even or even slightly below breaking even, it's worth it because it's the type of thing that will benefit so many millions of Americans, especially those of us in the middle class who put our hard-earned savings into mutual funds or into other areas of the stock market or into capital assets that literally will receive some benefit in the future from what is being done here today. 
Some of my colleagues from the other side of the aisle have categorized the capital gains tax cut as being for the rich. This is just not true. The capital gains tax cuts will help any American investing in a mutual fund, owning a home, or with an IRA which invests in stock. These are not the rich. These are hard-working middle-class families saving for their future and struggling to own a piece of the American dream. 
In addition, this bill provides much needed relief from the estate and gift tax. This so-called death tax is nothing more than a punishment for success. This tax has the damaging effect of forcing families to sell a business or a family farm just to pay their tax liability. Many farms in my State of Utah have been passed on from generation to generation. Under the current estate tax, it is inevitable that at sometime in the future these families may be forced to sell these farms unless this tax is eliminated. This is one area of unfinished business. I hope that we can continue the process we have begun here and work together in the future to further reduce this onerous tax on American family farms and businesses. 
This bill also contains a number of proposals that will help small businesses. Since 1993, I have attempted to clearly define what is a principal place of business for purposes of the home office deduction. This bill would clarify that definition and allow thousands of small business men and women deduct their legitimate home office expenses. 
In addition, this bill makes important changes to allow self-employed individuals to fully deduct the cost of health insurance. The bill also modifies the employee stock ownership plan rules and other pension provisions that will allow more small businesses to provide employees with savings and retirement benefits. 
Mr. President, I would like to commend the conferees for including provisions contained in the International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act which I introduced earlier this year with Senator Baucus. This bill will extend the same export benefits to software products that are available to films and other recordings. It will also provide relief to U.S. financial services companies, including banks, security firms, insurance companies and brokers, and other finance and credit entities. The simplification and other changes to the most complex area of our Tax Code will enhance the global competitiveness of American products and companies. 
Mr. President, while this bill does, in some ways, create more complexity in the Tax Code, there are a few sections that simplify various areas of our tax system. One such provision is a provision that I have worked hard on--exempting State and local government pension plans from the cumbersome pension nondiscrimination rules. This provision reinforces the right that State and local governments have to determine the compensation of their employees without Federal Government intrusion. 
Mr. President, the passage of this tax relief bill is truly historic. The taxpayers in my State of Utah and across this country are deserving of this tax cut. They are overtaxed and over regulated. This bill provides broad tax relief in many important areas. 
The budget conference report also contains provisions to restructure and preserve the Medicare Program for a decade. These changes are nothing less than historic in nature and will help insure that Medicare remains solvent well beyond 2001--the date for financial insolvency for the Medicare part A hospital trust fund. 
Elderly Utahns can rest assured tonight that the Federal Government's health care commitment to them remains strong and undeterred. And, while work remains to be done, all future Medicare beneficiaries can rest assured that Medicare will be there as they become eligible early in the next century. 
I join my colleagues in the Senate and particularly those Senators on the Finance Committee, on which I serve, where this legislation was originally developed and drafted. 
We all have worked tirelessly over the past 7 months through numerous committee hearings and through countless committee meetings. We worked in a bipartisan fashion, resolved our differences on policy, and ultimately developed a consensus approach to Medicare reform. 
The effort has paid off, and the American people are the recipients of this great and historic dividend. 
Nevertheless, we must also recognize--and the American people must realize--that there still remains considerable work to be done with respect to long-term reforms of the Medicare Program. 
This is why I am delighted the conference report contains legislation I sponsored earlier this year to establish a National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare. 
This Commission will be comprised of 17 members who will be charged to develop recommendations to ensure the long-term fiscal health of the Medicare Program. Those recommendations will be completed and sent to Congress by March 1, 1999. 
I have spent a great deal of time talking with my constituents in Utah, and I have found that one thing which matters very much to them is the ability to choose the health care which suits them the best. 
Clearly, one of the most significant and dramatic changes to Medicare will be the new Medicare Choice Program. Under this new program, Medicare beneficiaries will have the opportunity to choose from a variety of private health care plan options that best suits their needs and preferences. 
Such plans could include newly created provider sponsored organizations operated by health care providers as well as medical savings accounts combined with a qualified high-deductible policy. Utah providers have urged for several years that we change the law to allow them the ability to band together and form provider networks, locally based linkages of physicians and hospitals who will treat Medicare patients. That change will finally be made. 
As a strong supporter of MSA's, I am delighted the bill contains this provision even though it is a demonstration that is capped at 390,000 enrollees and sunsets on December 31, 2002. Nevertheless, it is an important first step that I believe will be a resounding success and reauthorized beyond the 2002 deadline. 
This is an important change in Medicare which, since its inception in 1965, has traditionally been structured as a fee-for-service plan. 
The Senate recognizes that beneficiaries want more choice in the manner in which they receive health care. With the introduction of managed care into the private sector, seniors are increasingly interested in participating in managed care plans which offer greater benefits such as prescription drugs and eye and hearing care. 
The conference report we are passing today will give seniors that choice. But it will do so without jeopardizing anyone's right or desire to remain in the traditional fee-for-service program. 
Moreover, we have incorporated protections and safeguards to ensure that those seniors who choose to participate in a managed care plan will have the necessary consumer protections such as access to emergency services 24 hours a day as well as appropriate appeals and grievance procedures. 
Another key interest of Utahns is the necessity of providing cost-effective, high-quality care for our seniors and disabled who must avail themselves of either nursing home care or home health services. I am particularly delighted the report contains important and necessary changes in the manner in which the Federal Government finances skilled nursing home and home health care services. 
I have long advocated for the establishment of a prospective payment system, or PPS as it is referred to, for home health and skilled nursing care. I have introduced legislation--S. 913, the Home Health Care Prospective Payment Act of 1997 and S. 914, the Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment Act of 1997--to accomplish this objective. The major components of that legislation are contained in the conference agreement we will approve today. 
The implementation of a PPS will help address the extraordinary escalation in program costs associated with home health and nursing care. These two programs are the fastest growing components of Medicare and efforts are necessary to address program growth without jeopardizing quality or access to care. 
Accordingly, I am delighted the report before us today incorporates many of the provisions in my bills including the implementation of a prospective payment system. 
With respect to the $5 copayment for home health care services originally contained in the Senate bill, I am pleased the final conference report does not contain this provision. While I recognize the need to place controls on utilization, I believe the most cost-effective approach is through a prospective payment system which we now have in place. 
The legislation will also provide Medicare beneficiaries with new and enhanced health care benefits. 
I am particularly pleased that annual mammography screening, screening for prostate and colorectal cancer, diabetes self-management, and expansion of immunizations will be phased in and available to beneficiaries. 
In this regard, I am especially pleased that the conference report contains a provision I raised in the Finance Committee to eliminate the x-ray requirement as a condition of Medicare coverage for chiropractic services. 
Affording seniors greater access to chiropractic services will not only result in reduced Medicare expenditures, in the context of total program costs, but will also reduce needless back surgery for countless senior citizens. 
Mr. President, I would like to turn now to another provision, the need for which was brought to my attention by Ms. Michelle Newport, a Christian Scientist in Salt Lake City, UT. 
Under several provisions of Medicare and Medicaid law, reimbursement has been authorized for literally decades for nonmedical hospital and skilled nursing facility services provided in sanitoria operated by the First Church of Christ, Scientist. 
The need for reexamination of these statutory provisions was pointed out when the current law was challenged successfully last year in the case of Children's Healthcare Is a Legal Duty (CHILD) versus Vladeck. In this case, a Minnesota district court held that the law and their accompanying regulations violate the establishment clause of the Constitution as an inpermissible sectarian preference. Pursuant to that court decision, the Secretary was enjoined from further implementation; however through the efforts of a number of Members of Congress who disagreed with this ruling, including House Judiciary Committee Chairman Hyde, Senator Kennedy, and myself, the court's injunction has been stayed until August 1997. 
The provision included in the bill we are considering today is intended to address our concern over that ruling. It has been drafted to be sect neutral. It replaces existing law by providing for reimbursement of nursing services to individuals who decline conventional coverage due to sincerely held religious beliefs. The provision sets up conditions for coverage of religious nonmedical health care institutions under the Medicare and Medicaid Programs, with new mechanisms to ensure cost-control of the benefit. 
I want to thank Senator Roth and Chairman Archer, and especially their staffs, for their hard work in crafting a provision which meets the twin concerns of cost-control and constitutionality. I would also like to pay special recognition to Gioia Bonmartini of the Finance Committee staff, and Dean Rosen of the Ways and Means Committee staff, who worked so hard to make certain an acceptable provision was included in the conference agreement. 
With respect to the delivery of health care in rural America, I am pleased the report contains provisions I sponsored in the Senate to increase the level of Medicare managed care payments for rural areas of the country. The report provides a minimum payment amount of $367 in 1998 that will be updated annually by the growth in Medicare fee-for-service payments. 
Implementation of this provision, although extremely technical in nature, has been a key objective of Utah's managed care community, which will now have the incentives to develop and offer managed care plans in more rural communities. 
Before I close my discussion of the health care provisions contained within this legislation, I want to take a few moments to address one of the most important components of the conference agreement, the new child health initiative. 
As my colleagues are aware, Senator Kennedy and I introduced the Child Health Insurance and Lower Deficit Act [CHILD] on April 8. Now, only 114 days later, we are giving final approval to a substantial new program which is very similar to the Hatch/Kennedy bill. 
The CHILD bills, S. 525 and S. 526, proposed a program which is extremely similar to that which is contained in the conference agreement we are considering today. The CHILD bills, as with the conference agreement, proposed a State-run block grant program to provide health insurance services to low-income children. The program was to be financed by a cigarette excise tax. Eligibility is to be determined by the States, cost-sharing is limited for the lowest income, and coverage cannot be provided to those who are currently eligible for Medicaid, all provisions contained within our legislation. 
It is no secret to Members of this body that the United States has a deplorable record in making certain that our Nation's most vulnerable, our children, have access to health care services. By many estimates, over 10 million of our children are uninsured. That is a situation which must be corrected, and I am pleased, indeed thrilled, that the conference agreement contains this new program. 
At this point, I would like to insert a summary of the new provisions for the edification of my colleagues.  
Funding level: Provides $24 billion in the first 5 years, and $24 billion in the next 5 years. Note: the funding levels add up to $39.65 billion over the next 10 years because certain Medicaid costs have been taken off the top. 
Tobacco tax: Program starts in fiscal year 1998. It is financed in part through a tobacco excise tax increase. There is no increase in the first 2 years. For the next 2 years, there is a 10 cents/pack increase. In the fifth year, fiscal year 2002, and thereafter, the tax is increased by 15 cents/pack. 
Use of funds: Funds can be used for State block grants, or expanded Medicaid, or both. Funding can be provided for community-based health delivery systems, such as Community Health Centers. The funds cannot be used for any other purpose than those enunciated in the bill. 
Funding distribution: Funds are distributed by a formula which is initially based on the number of low-income uninsured children in the State and in subsequent years blended with the number of children in the State. There is a geographical adjustment for the costs of providing services. No State will get less than $2 million/year. Funds are made available for 3 years, and unused funds can be redistributed among other States. 
Medicaid: If a State chooses to insure new children not now eligible for Medicaid under Medicaid, they may receive increased Federal matching equal to 30 percent of the State share, with an 85 percent cap on the Federal contribution. 
Secretarial approval of plan: A detailed process is laid out for submission of the State plan, or amendments thereto. Secretarial approval is deemed unless she notifies the State within 90 days that it is disapproved. 
Eligibility: States determine eligibility. Generally, children can be covered up to age 19 and at 200 percent of Federal poverty level. However, States which currently are at that coverage level may expand their programs up to 250 percent of FPL. Covered children cannot be eligible for Medicaid now and cannot be covered now under group health plans. 
State responsibility: States must show they are: (1) trying to cover Medicaid eligibles first; (2) not substituting the new plan for current group health plan coverage; (3) covering Indian eligibles. States will be required to enunciate strategic objectives and performance goals, submit an annual report, and be subject to regular evaluations as to effectiveness of the plan. 
Benefits package: States must provide coverage which is either equivalent to a benchmark package or a equivalent to a benchmark-equivalent package, and they can provide even more from a long list of services, which includes transportation costs, mental health, home care and dental. The benchmark package is either: (1) FEHBP-equivalent coverage, which is Blue Cross/Blue Shield standard option for a preferred provider organization; or (2) a plan generally made available to State employees; or (3) the largest commercial, non-Medicaid HMO in the State. The benchmark equivalent package: (1) Is actuarially equivalent to one of the benchmark plans; and (2) covers the following basic services: Inpatient/outpatient; Physicians surgical and medical; Lab and x ray; Well-baby and well-child care; including immunizations. The State may also get approval from the Secretary to offer other coverage. Current non-Medicaid State plans in New York, Florida and Pennsylvania are grandfathered in. 
Cost-sharing: The amounts must be published in the State plan, and imposed under a public schedule. Variations based on family income should not disadvantage lower income families. No cost-sharing for preventive services. If the child has income below 150 percent of Federal poverty level [FPL], the State may not impose a premium above that which would have been charged under Medicaid, and any deductible or other cost-sharing must be nominal, as in Medicaid. 
Maintenance of effort: States cannot change their Medicaid eligibility standards in effect as of June 1, 1997. 
Abortion: Abortion coverage is specifically precluded, except for rape, incest or life of the mother cases. 
Mr. President, I am extremely proud of this legislation. I think that a number of important modifications have been made to the final conference agreement, changes which improve the measure and which will give the States the flexibility they need to operate the program in a most efficient manner. 
I will say, though, that I am disappointed at the Congressional Budget Office's estimates that the bill will only cover 3.4 million children, 1.38 million of whom were previously insured. It is no secret that I have been critical of the CBO's earlier estimates which I felt were too low in terms of children covered. I still believe this is the case, and am hopeful that with the flexibility provisions added for the Governors we will be able to cover even more children. 
As many have noted, this will be the most important new program to help our Nation's children since enactment of the Medicaid Program over 30 years ago. I am extremely proud to have played a role in its development. 
For not only will the bill help provide children with the health insurance they need, it will play the dual role of discouraging them from smoking or using other tobacco products, by increasing the tobacco excise tax. 
During this debate, which was often contentious, I asked my colleagues, `Who do you want to help, Joe camel or Joey?' Sometimes it didn't seem clear. But at long last, the Camel is losing, and that is a tremendous benefit for public health. 
I do want to take this opportunity to thank those who united behind this effort, and especially the six Republicans who joined me in drafting the original child health legislation: Senators Jeffords, Stevens, Snowe, Collins, Campbell, and Smith. I also want to pay especial tribute to two Senators who were extremely supportive along the way, Senators DeWine and D'Amato, who played a crucial role in supporting this legislation when support was sorely needed. 
It is important to note the tremendous leadership role that Senator Lott played in making certain this provision was incorporated in the final agreement. He is a true friend of our Nation's children. Finance Committee Chairman Roth must also be praised for his dedication to children's health and toward working out a compromise with the House, and his capable staff Dennis Smith and Julie James deserve especial recognition, as does Howard Cohen of the House Commerce Committee staff. 
Of course, no list would be complete without mentioning Senator Chafee, who did so much to advance this debate by pointing out the need to maintain a strong Medicaid Program and make certain it is enhanced as we expand children's health funding. 
Strong partners in this cause are Senator Daschle, who stood up for children's health when his national leaders would not, and Senator Moynihan, who played a crucial role on the Finance Committee. Senator Rockefeller, again, must be noted for his dedication to this cause, and for assuming a strong voice of reason role when cooler heads did not prevail. 
And finally, I must pay tribute to my partner in this legislation, Senator Kennedy. He is the most aggressive and successful legislator I know. And I am proud that when we can unite on a bill, everyone knows it will be a very good bill. Because the products of our legislative liaison always represent the center. 
Mr. President, in adopting this legislation today, we are representing our constituents, the large majority of which time and time again have signaled they want to do more for children's health. That day is here. 
Mr. President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to vote for this important tax bill. 
I, again, want to express my appreciation, love, and respect for the distinguished chairman of this committee and the distinguished ranking member, Senator Roth and Senator Moynihan, and the concomitant leaders in the Ways and Means Committee in the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation proposed by the Clinton administration to implement two important treaties that were adopted last December by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). The distinguished Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, Sen. Leahy, the distinguished Senator for Tennessee, Sen. Thompson, and the distinguished Senator from Wisconsin, Sen. Kohl, join me as original cosponsors. I strongly support adoption of the treaties, and I am introducing this bill on behalf of the Administration as an essential step in that process. I believe that the Administration's bill provides an excellent starting point for the debate on exactly what must be changed in U.S. law in order to comply with the treaties. 
The WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO performances and Phonograms Treaty--completed after years of intense lobbying by the United States government--will update international copyright law for the digital age and ensure the protection of American creative products abroad. I want to commend Secretary of Commerce Bill Daley, Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks Bruce Lehman, and their staffs for their efforts in moving this important issue forward, and I welcome the opportunity to work with them during the legislative process. 
The United States leads the world in the production of creative works and high-technology products--including software, movies, recordings, music, books, video games, and information. Copyright industries represent nearly 6% of the U.S. gross domestic product, and nearly 5% of U.S. employment. Yet American companies lose $18-20 billion every year due to international piracy of copyrighted works. The film industry alone estimates its annual losses due to counterfeiting in excess of $2.3 billion, even though full-length motion pictures are not yet available on the Internet. The recording industry estimates that it looses more than $1.2 billion each year due to piracy, with seizures of bootleg CDS up some 1,300 percent in 1995. These figures will only continue to grow with the recent technological developments that permit creative products to be pirated and distributed globally with the touch of a button, significantly weakening international protection for the copyrighted works that are such a critical part of this country's economic backbone and costing the U.S. economy exports and jobs. 
The WIPO treaties will raise the minimum standards for copyright protection worldwide, providing the U.S. with the tools it needs to combat international piracy. But the treaties will be meaningless unless they are ratified by a large number of countries. It is therefore up to the United States to demonstrate leadership on this issue by ratifying and implementing the treaties promptly. Swift U.S. action will encourage global implementation of the WIPO treaties, and will signal U.S. determination to curb the threat that international piracy poses to U.S. jobs and the economy. 
This bill takes the approach that the substantive protections in U.S. copyright law already meet the standards of the new WIPO treaties, and therefore very few changes to U.S. law are necessary in order to implement the treaties. In addition to minimal technical amendments, the treaties require signatory countries to provide legal protections against the circumvention of certain technologies that copyright owners use to protect their works and to guard against the alteration or falsification of identifying data known as copyright management information (CMI). 
This `minimalist' bill is the product of much hard work by the Administration, and represents many months of negotiations among interested parties, including software companies, computer manufacturers, and the copyright community. This bill is a compromise; it does not represent any group's `wish list' for WIPO implementing legislation. The Administration has tried to craft a bill that addresses only those issues required by the treaties without altering the substantive protections and exceptions provided under U.S. copyright law or injecting extraneous issues into the treaty process. The Administration has tried to preserve the delicate balance that U.S. law already strikes between copyright owners and users, since the WIPO treaties were not intended to upset that balance. 
I urge my colleagues to give this legislation serious consideration. The Judiciary Committee will begin hearings on this bill shortly. I would like to see the treaties go into effect this year, and I will try hard to meet this goal. However, the late date on which the Administration has submitted the legislation may render this goal unachievable. 
In any event, we must act promptly to ratify and implement the WIPO treaties in order to demonstrate leadership on international copyright protection, so that the WIPO treaties can be implemented globally and so that further theft of our nation's most valuable creative products may be prevented. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970731</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to correct a problem with the way unemployment benefits are currently offset when received by participants in a multiemployer pension plan. 
Under our current Unemployment Compensation [UC] system States pay and administer UC benefits. The federal government shares in the cost of these benefits. Since 1980, the Federal Government has required that UC benefits be offset or reduced by any pension benefits that an individual receives from a base-period employer. A base period employer is any employer of the recipient during the 52-week period before the loss of a job. 
Here is how it works. If you are involuntarily separated from the same employer that is paying your retirement benefits and your employment caused your retirement benefits to increase any unemployment compensation you may qualify for will be offset by any retirement income received for this same employer. Thus, retirement benefits received could significantly reduce or eliminate any unemployment benefits. 
Mr. President, this policy was implemented, in part, to prevent employees from receiving pension benefits and qualifying for unemployment compensation from the same employment. 
Unfortunately, the application of the offset requirement to participants in multiemployer pension plans can unfairly penalize some taxpayers. Under current law, all employers in a multiemployer plan group are considered base-period employers for unemployment compensation purposes. Because of this, members of a multiemployer pension plan, such as actors and actresses that return to work, even through it may be for another employer (i.e., studio), are treated as returning to work for the same employer because all entertainment industry employers are part of the same multiemployer pension plan. Thus, when they return to work in their later years and their pension is increased by a nominal amount their unemployment compensation benefits are offset by their full pension amount. This can leave some with the little or no unemployment compensation benefits. 
Mr. President, to correct this, I am introducing legislation that would simply limit the unemployment benefit offset to the amount of the pension increase rather than the full pension amount received. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House by Rep. English as H.R. 841. 
Mr. President, I hope we can pass this change to allow workers in multiemployer pension plans to receive the same treatment as participants in other plans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me just take a moment to discuss the important issue of the funding of the Patent and Trademark Office [PTO] that is contained in the Commerce, Justice, State, and Judiciary appropriations bill that the Senate will vote on later today. As my colleagues know, Mr. President, the PTO has been entirely funded by user fees for several years now. Not one cent of general taxpayer money goes to the operation of that vital office. Thus, it is my belief that all the money generated by the user fees should be available for use by the PTO. 
Unfortunately, in the last few years, increasingly large amounts of money have been diverted from the PTO. The patent surcharge, which was instituted to make the PTO self-funding, has been the target of this diversion. That is why I was very pleased when the surcharge, which is scheduled to expire after fiscal year 1998, was not renewed. I had advocated that it not be renewed and, with the support of Senators Domenici and Lautenberg, the chairman and ranking member of the Budget Committee, it was not. 
In addition to the surcharge, this bill contains new PTO funding issues. First, the bill set aside $20 million to fund an office called the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property Policy, should such an office be created. This office does not yet exist but is advocated by the administration, which seeks to add it to my Omnibus Patent Act, S. 507. I am negotiating with the administration with regard to the possible creation of such an office. But one thing seems clear: if that office is created, it will not need a budget of $20 million. Thus, I cosponsored an effort by Senator Lautenberg to reduce that amount. 
I want to thank both Senator Lautenberg for his efforts and Senator Gregg for agreeing to modify that provision. Instead of $20 million, the bill now sets aside an amount up to 2 percent of the PTO budget. That is a maximum of about $14 million. That is a more realistic number, and, I suspect that, should the office be created, it would not even need that much. 
The second new issue raised by this legislation deals not with the surcharge, but with the base fees. In the past, the PTO has been permitted to collect and spend whatever amount of base fees is generated in a given year. This is logical, since increased filings will increase work for the PTO but also generate more money with which to do that work. But this bill sets a cap on the base fees that PTO may not exceed, regardless of how much they collect. This is of serious concern to me, Mr. President, as it risks leaving the PTO with an increased workload but with insufficient funds to conduct proper patent examinations and trademark registrations. 
The House Appropriations Committee did not set a similar cap. Rather, the House has continued the standard practice of allowing the PTO to spend whatever the base fees happen to generate. Mr. President, the language in the Senate version risks leaving the PTO unable to perform its vital task of protecting the work of Utahns and all other American inventors. I urge the conference committee to adopt the House language and not impose a new cap on the Patent and Trademark Office. 
Mr. President, I led the fight for the balanced budget amendment. In balancing the budget, it is unjust to force American inventors to bear a greater burden than the ordinary taxpayer.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is a unique privilege and distinct honor for me to recognize, today, on the floor of the U.S. Senate, the 150th anniversary of the arrival of the Mormon Pioneers in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake on July 24, 1847. 
It was spring, by the calendar, in late March of the year 1846, as some 3,000 people in 400 wagons struggled west across the rolling hills of Iowa, through snow and drizzling rain. The muddy track was nearly impassable as they lumbered on, far behind schedule and nearing exhaustion. Behind them lay the last few villages of organized territory; before them, the great unknown. Somewhere, over the horizon, beyond the sheltering forests and the waving grasslands, lay the Rocky Mountains. Previous maps showed the way into the wilderness, while scouting reports told of the romantic landscape ahead: Black clouds of buffalo sweeping across the prairie swells, great rivers and snow-capped peaks, the endless sky, and the lonely stars. Most of these wagons had never been this far West; perhaps a few had reached Missouri--Independence or Clay County. But that was no comfort. Few people in this wagon train cared to think much of Missouri--where the stench of massacre and betrayal had but recently overwhelmed the sweet scent of fresh gardens and new-mown hay. Now, as history repeated itself, their last refuge--their beautiful Nauvoo--was besieged by hateful mobs, and there seemed no other solution than to flee, yet again. These wagons were the vanguard; hundreds were on the road behind them, and thousands more, gathered on the banks of the Mississippi, were making ready to follow. 
Barely 26 years before, young Joseph Smith, by his own account, had entered the woods near his father's farm to pray, when `Suddenly, a light descended, brighter far than noonday Sun, and a shining, glorious pillar o'er him fell, around him shone, while appeared two heav'nly beings, God the Father and the Son.' Now, scarcely grown to the fulness of his prophetic calling, this towering leader lay dead in a martyr's grave, and the faithful who had responded to the restored Gospel entrusted to him were scattered and driven, with only one hope, expressed in the hymn that would become their inspiration and epitaph: `We'll find the place, which God for us prepared, far away in the West, where none shall come to hurt, or make afraid. There, the Saints will be blessed.' 
They came from everywhere, these honored pioneers--New England, Old England, the lands of the North--wherever believers could spread the word. Some were already crusty pioneers--the likes of Daniel Boone or the Green Mountain boys --whose ancestors had settled the Tidewater counties or landed at Plymouth Rock. Others had only recently left the coal mines of Wales and the sweatshops of Manchester to take their first draught of fresh air in the New World. A few were professionals, who could doctor, or teach, or play music to ease the rigors of the trail; many were artisans--carpenters, wheelwrights, shoemakers--whose skills were sorely needed. But for all their skills and preparations, far too few were ready for the bone-deep weariness, the numbing cold, or birthing in the open air. 
Critics might say that they brought their misery upon themselves--through blind faith and foolhardy dreams. Such was the litany of those who mobbed and burned and killed without mercy. Yet the saints were moved by a destiny their detractors could not have understood. It came from the lips of their fallen prophet: 
I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction * * *, many would apostatize, others would be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities, and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. 
As summer came to western Iowa the vanguard paused to build and plant for those who would follow, and, thus further delayed, found it necessary to spend the winter of 1846-47 on the banks of the Missouri, upriver from Council Bluffs, in Indian territory. Here, at winter quarters, they gathered and regrouped. On the 7th of April 1847, the advance company, led by Brigham Young, was once more on the move, followed in June by approximately 1,500 people organized after the Biblical model as the `Camp of Israel.' By July 21, after nearly 4 months on the trail, a scouting party reached the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, followed on the 22d by the main body of the advanced company. Two days later, Brigham Young himself reached the foothills at the edge of the Great Basin. Surveying the valley before him, as if in a vision, he finally spoke the now-famous words of approbation: `This is the right place. Drive on.' 
Over the next 150 years, the vision was verified and the prophecy fulfilled. Upward of 70,000 people crossed the plains in wagons and handcarts. Many a journey started from Liverpool where the faithful from throughout Europe embarked for Zion, fulfilling, as they believed, the words of the prophet Isaiah:  
And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths * * *. 
Six thousand died along the way. Some lost heart and turned back, or shrank before the daunting task of taming the harsh land and moved on to the greener pastures of Oregon and California. But more than 300 settlements in Utah and surrounding States, as well as colonies in Canada and Mexico, testify to the courage and determination of that vast majority who persevered. 
Today, the desert blossoms with the fruits of their labor, while their descendants continue to build upon their firm foundation. A yearlong celebration, with the theme `Faith in Every Footstep,' is now in progress to honor their memory. Well-wishers and admirers in towns and cities along the trail and throughout the world have joined with Latter-day Saints in commemorating this milestone of human history--with the dedication of buildings and monuments in hallowed places, with theater and music, historical displays, and a vivid reenactment of the trek itself. It has been, and continues to be, a joyful celebration, as befits the memory of those whose sacrifice has indeed given birth to `a mighty people.' 
Mr. President, I would like to add my tribute by quoting the words of a Mormon hymn which reflects--I think, appropriately--the joy and the guiding faith of those marvelous Saints who, 150 years ago, put their fate in the hands of God and turned their faces West: 
The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! 
The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 
The visions and blessings of old are returning, 
And angels are coming to visit the earth. 
We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, 
Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb! 
Let glory to them in the highest be given, 
Henceforth and forever, Amen and amen. 
Mr. President, my forebears were part of these pioneers who came across this vast territory, who suffered untold privations. My great-great-grandfather was killed by a mob. I have to say that when they came to Utah, they followed the leadership of Brigham Young and went wherever they were told to go. They believed in what they believed. They had faith in what they had faith in. And they lived up to the principles that literally made Utah such a great State and much of the West greater than it would have been. 
So I am very grateful for these pioneers. I am grateful for those who made that commemorative trip this year and have gone through the deprivations and privations to show just a little bit what some of these early pioneers had gone through. 
Last but not least, a number of them expressed themselves and said that this experience of going on that pioneer trek, walking it, riding in covered wagons, riding horses, and pulling handcarts was one of the greatest experiences of their lives. Unfortunately, it wasn't perhaps the greatest experience for our early forebears, the pioneers, because of the many travails and problems they had. These trails they had to break themselves, in many respects, and they did it and I am grateful for it. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, once more we are engaging in the increasingly repetitive argument over whether the U.S. Senate should support one of our country's most valuable tools of foreign policy--the National Endowment for Democracy. The Senate subcommittee zeroed out the administration request for $30 million for the Endowment, although the House of Representatives granted it full funding. Today, Senators Lugar and others are offering an amendment that will restore the Senate's support for full funding for the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), and I encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of this amendment. 
Mr. President, I've been in this body for the entire history of the National Endowment for Democracy, and I make no reservations about my wholehearted support for this organization. My colleagues know I was an original supporter of the NED, and I am a stronger supporter today than I was then. 
President Reagan clearly summarized the NED's mission when he stated at its inception:  
The objective I propose is quite simple to state: to foster the infrastructure of democracy--the system of a free press, unions, political parties, universities--which allows a people to choose their own way, to develop their own culture, to reconcile their own differences through peaceful means. 
I believe that mission statement is as relevant to our goals today as it was in 1982, when the National Endowment for Democracy was founded. And I find it illogical and disingenuous that some argue that the Endowment is a cold war institution which, because we have won the cold war, is no longer relevant. Many appear to agree with me. In a September 1995 letter to our congressional leadership, seven former Secretaries of State said: 
During this period of international change and uncertainty, the work of the NED continues to be an important bipartisan but non-governmental contributor to democratic reform and freedom. 
It appears that a few still believe, illogically, that because the NED was engaged in fighting for democracy during the cold war, it is no longer relevant. This reasoning is unsound, based on facts of the past, and realities of the present. 
First, the past. The NED did have some high-profile involvement with 
organizations such as Solidarity, which were critical in loosening Moscow's grip on its captive nations. I applaud the NED for that, as I applaud the many other organizations, such as the International Labor Office and other great anti-communists such as Irving Brown, who worked with us to undermine Soviet totalitarian control. But anyone who believes that the cold war was the central or only focus of the NED may not have all the facts. 
It is a fact, for example, that during the early days of the National Endowment for Democracy, approximately half of NED's funds were directed toward Latin America. The 1980's, you will recall, Mr. President, was the decade when democracy swept across the Latin American continent. The people of Latin America, and their brave democratic leaders, deserve the credit for this. But it was the wisdom of U.S. foreign policy--and the participation from the NED--that provided important diplomatic and practical support. 
Second, the present. The obvious fact is, Mr. President, that support for democracy remains a necessary goal of U.S. foreign policy. Students of history know that democracies are less likely to try to settle their internal and external conflicts with a resort to violence. Observers of current affairs recognize that, while democracy continues to spread, many parts of the world are in desperate need for further democratic development. It is no coincidence indeed that many of these areas are areas where U.S. foreign policy goals are and will be challenged. 
To believe that supporting democracy was a need solely of the cold war is a notion that ignores the basic reality that the world remains full of nations where democracy needs support. And where democracy advances, the risk of conflict that could require a U.S. response declines. 
That is why a number of my friends--Jack Kemp, Steve Forbes, Bill Bennett, Jeane Kirkpatrick, Vin Weber, and Lamar Alexander--have circulated a letter from their organization, Empower America, which I would like to quote: 
NED helps brave people around the world who are engaged in difficult struggles for freedom. These are America's natural friends. Resisting the enemies of freedom, they need our continual solidarity. 
A case in point is China, where the Endowment supports various pro-democracy networks as well as the democracy movements in Tibet and Hong Kong . . . 
China is but one example of how NED, which works in over 90 countries, is as relevant to the post-Cold War world as it was in the struggle against Soviet totalitarianism. Examples could be cited from other difficult situations, from Burma to Cuba, from the Balkans to the Middle East. The kind of political assistance NED provides is not foreign aid. NED is more than a program; it is an instrument for transmitting in a peaceful way American democratic values to a world that looks to us to maintain our leadership role. 
NED works to expand human freedom and helps people help themselves. It promotes American values and interests. It is realistic and idealistic at the same time. It internationalist in the best sense of that term. It is truly our kind of program. 
Mr. President, among my friends at Empower America, you will not find one person who believes the United States should be the world's policeman. Most of these individuals are very skeptical--like me--about some of this country's recent unilateral as well as multilateral deployments. 
But none of these individuals believes that the $30 million spent on the National Endowment for Democracy is anything but a completely worthwhile expenditure that supports our national interests by supporting the spread of democracy around the world. 
The cold war is over, Mr. President, and we won it. We won it with a strong defense posture, with a policy of engagement in Latin America, Afghanistan, and central Europe. And we won it by standing with democrats around the world. Despite the end of the cold war, there are many democratic movements that need our support. As the Empower America letter said: `. . . the brave people around the world who are engaged in difficult struggles for freedom . . . these are America's natural friends.' 
I wish that we could do more for these friends of America, Mr. President. But the reality of foreign affairs has always been limited by the need to prioritize limited resources. In my view, an expenditure of $30 million to support the many activities of the NED throughout the world may be one of the most cost-effective investments we make in the support of American's interests overseas. 
The critics of the NED should review the Endowment's materials. For example, this body has spent a large amount of time debating how we should relate to the rising power of authoritarian China. While we debate the value of sanctions or engagement, who in this body suggests that the support for local elections in China that is conducted by NED with the International Republican Institute is anything but an enormously positive development? Who suggests that NED-supported Chinese activists who monitor and report on the repression of dissidents must not be continued--so that lawmakers around the world can know the truth when we debate complicated issues of engaging China? Who believes that Harry Wu's research foundation--dedicated to monitoring the abhorrent use of prison labor--should not be supported, so that we know how China abuses our trade relations? 
Who believes, Mr. President, that the many programs promoting open press, reasoned democratic debate and the rule of law that NED supports throughout the Arab world are not supporting America's goals in that region? Can anyone who is 
aware of America's uncertain relations with the Islamic world declare that it is not in our interest to promote democratic values there? 
Mr. President, I've cited a few examples and endorsements from prominent U.S. foreign policymakers--Republican and Democrat--but I'd like to close my remarks by quoting Martin Lee, who my colleagues surely recognize as Hong Kong's voice of democracy. As we know, the reversion to the People's Republic of China opens a new--and uncertain--page in the recent history of democracy in Hong Kong. 
Martin Lee recently wrote a letter to my colleague, Senator Mack. Members of this body know that Senator Mack has devoted a large amount of his time to the difficult process of Hong Kong's reversion, and he is one of the leaders who will increase his attentions to the former British colony now that July 1 has past. Martin Lee wrote: 
In Hong Kong and elsewhere in Asia and around the world, the struggle to preserve democracy, political freedom and the rule of law is far from being won. But by supporting key human rights organizations which work for development of democracy and the preservation of the rule of law and human rights in Hong Kong, the Endowment's work in Hong Kong has had profound effect at a critical time. During what I realize is a time of shrinking budgets, I cannot think of better value for money than the National Endowment for Democracy. 
Mr. President, Martin Lee is correct: `The struggle to preserve democracy, political freedom and the rule of law is far from being won.' What a sorry signal the United States would be giving democrats struggling around the world if we ended our support for the National Endowment for Democracy. What a shortsighted notion it would be to save $30 million by abandoning our support for an organization that promotes our political values around the world. 
I urge my colleagues to support full funding for the National Endowment for Democracy.  
Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of the appropriations provision effecting a split of the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, and to respectively oppose the amendment offered by my colleague from California. Splitting the ninth circuit is appropriate at this time for three principal reasons: First, its size. The ninth circuit is the largest of the 13 federal circuits. Indeed, the ninth circuit is larger than the 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 11th circuits combined. The population of the States comprising the ninth circuit is 49,358,941, almost one-fifth of the Nation's population. The size of the circuit also has an effect on the caseloads of the judges of the circuit. The ninth circuit's caseload in recent years has been in excess of 7,000 cases a year, far and away more than in any other circuit. 
The second reason to support this proposal is a function of the first. The ninth circuit's size also negatively impacts the internal consistency of law within the circuit. There are currently 28 seats on the ninth circuit, and many who are claiming that Congress should significantly add to that number at least 10 more seats--so, 38 seats. A circuit comprised of so many judges is entirely unmanageable and undermines important considerations of judicial economy, efficiency and collegiality. Because the circuit is so large its judges cannot sit together to hear cases en banc as do other circuits, and accordingly the court has lost the necessary sense of judicial collegiality, and coherence of its circuit-wide case law. I would venture that there are as many contradictory rules of law within the ninth circuit as there are within all the other circuits combined. This has, I believe, contributed to a trend by which some ninth circuit judges feel totally free to disregard precedent, be it circuit precedent or even the Supreme Court's rulings. Just this past term, the ninth circuit had an astounding reversal rate of 95 percent before the Supreme Court. Twenty-eight of 29 cases were reversed. And the usual rate is no less than 75 percent of their cases are reversed. One ninth circuit judge has expressed chagrin at this regrettable situation, explaining that `the circuit is too large and has too many cases--making it impossible to keep abreast of ninth circuit decisions.' 
The third cost of having such a large circuit is the resulting delay in having cases decided. The ninth circuit is, in fact, one of the slowest in turning around case decisions from the time of filing. And, because of its size, some cases, especially high-profile ones, appear to be subject to manipulation. 
These important considerations have persuaded me that the ninth circuit should be split. And, I am happy to report that I believe some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, from States within the ninth circuit, will vote against the present amendment, and support the split provided for in the present bill. 
And finally, I would like to say a word about the way in which this proposed split has come to the floor. Some argue that a significant development like splitting a judicial circuit should not arise in the context of an appropriations bill--that the committee of jurisdiction, in this case the Judiciary Committee, should have the opportunity to review and comment about this proposal. I could not agree more with the proposition that this is a serious matter, deserving serious consideration. I point out, however, that the Judiciary Committee has indeed examined the advisability of splitting the ninth circuit. In just the last Congress, the Judiciary Committee held hearings on the subject, hearing from judges of the circuit and others knowledgeable about the implications of a split. After that hearing, the committee reported out a bill that, in many regards, is similar to the one before the Senate today. 
Accordingly, I am confident that the Senate has before it today a well-considered and desperately needed proposal to divide the ninth circuit. This is a proposal that serves the interests of judicial efficiency, stable case law, and equal justice for Americans within the ninth circuit. 
With all due respect, therefore, I must take exception to the proposed commission my colleague from California is now offering by way of an amendment. I think the time for a split of the ninth circuit is now. I believe we have studied the matter thoroughly, and that there is no need for further hearings or a commission. 
Frankly, I would expect that, were we in fact to proceed with another commission, it would simply make a recommendation similar to the Hruska report of nearly 25 years ago--namely, to divide the State of California. I don't have any doubt in my mind that that is what a future commission will decide, because if you want to get population equality, you are going to have to divide California. This does not do that, in deference to the Governor of California and, I might add, the two Senators from California, and to the various Congresspeople from California. And I might add, should this amendment succeed--the amendment of the distinguished Senator from California--and a commission be created that ultimately recommends splitting California, I may well be compelled, as will others in this body, to support that split and finally put this matter to rest. So this is dangerous stuff to be playing around with because I believe that there will be a split of California if you go the commission route. 
Now, while I recognize that many are greatly concerned about the prospect of dividing the State of California, I have to tell everybody today that this is pretty certain to result if this amendment is enacted. 
I urge my colleagues to vote against the amendment offered by my colleague from California. I believe, in the best interests of all concerned, this is an adequate and reasonable response. And, frankly, we have given States within the total area to be divided their right to choose which circuit they will belong to. I think that is an appropriate, reasonable, decent way to proceed. Otherwise, we are just delaying this another 2, 3 years, and we will come up with another split of California, which will be vigorously fought against by Members of the California delegation in both the House and Senate, and we will wind up right back where we are, or California will be split. If it is split, I think it would be to the disadvantage of California, as I view it. 
I hope our colleagues will vote down this amendment, as well-intentioned as it is, and will vote for this split, because it would be a split that would, I think, bring about collegiality, and it will bring about a better functioning two circuits, and it will give the States who want the split a chance to have their own circuit, where they can work together in the best interests of their States. 
If California continues to be the most reversible set of judges in the Nation, then they will have to live with that. Then everybody will know exactly who are the people that are doing this, who are the judicial activists, the ones undermining the judicial system, and are really causing California the pain, struggles, and difficulties that come from an out-of-control, judicially activist Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. 
I yield the floor.  
Mrs. FEINSTEIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will my colleague yield for a second? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. He is just yielding to me. But I absolutely agree with you. I absolutely agree with you. Let me tell you, during this last cold war time, I had a lot to do with the ILO when I was chairman of the Labor Committee and ranking member there, and ever since, when our tripartite organization--Government, labor and business--saved this country and countries all around this world from the tyranny of totalitarianism, right at the ILO. 
I can remember one trip I made over there because Irving Brown called me. He was the head of our delegation. He was the International Vice President of the AFL-CIO, and in my opinion the strongest anti-Communist in the world at the time. He stopped the Communists from taking over the French docks. He went into Paris before the end of the Second World War--one of the most heroic figures I ever met in my life. And he led our delegation with the full support of labor, business, and Government, year after year. He died here a few years ago. I went to his memorial service here. 
But I know what the ILO has meant to this country and what it has meant to free trade unionism around the world and what it has meant to freedom. 
I have to tell you, if we have this provision continue in this bill, since all three of these organizations, the WHO, the ILO, and the agricultural organization, we are behind in 
payments to them, it would mean it would have to come down to choosing one of them that they would delete. I can tell you right now, the one, probably the weakest that would be deleted, would be the ILO. I have to tell you, that preserves free trade unionism around the world, it protects freedom around the world, and, I have to tell you, quells disruptions and problems all over the world. It helps us all over the world to spread democracy. 
I don't want to see that happen, and I think the distinguished Senator from Maryland has brought up a very, very good point here. I call my colleagues' attention to it. I am grateful he has yielded to me for these few remarks. I hope they have been helpful to my colleagues on both sides, but I have been there, I know how important this is. I believe this is not the thing to do, to have that particular language left in there as it is. So I support my colleague from Maryland.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to thank the chairman of the subcommittee for taking what I believe is a necessary and meaningful step to turn the tide on a growing epidemic in this country, methamphetamine abuse. Although originally confined principally to the Southwest, including my home State of Utah, this epidemic is now moving East. Congress needs to take action to stop meth abuse. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Meth abuse, unfortunately, is also rapidly becoming one of our top public health threats. According to the latest data released by SAMHSA in its `Drug Abuse Warning Network' report released last week the number of children aged 12 to 17 who have had to go to emergency rooms due to meth use increased well over 200 percent between 1993 and 1995 alone. The number of deaths associated with meth has also increased dramatically. From 1989 to 1994, methamphetamine accounted for 80 percent or more of clandestine lab seizures by the DEA. Clandestine lab crackdowns are at an alltime high, and many more are going undetected. Mobile labs in rural areas of Utah, including numerous locations in Ogden, Provo, and the St. George area are making meth with virtual impunity. Local law enforcement does not have the manpower, resources, or technical expertise to cover such vast areas in a truly meaningful fashion. Federal law enforcement, most principally the Drug Enforcement Administration, has agents specially trained in the areas of methamphetamine lab take downs, but the number of such specialists is extremely limited, and certainly is of insufficient numbers to be any sort of meaningful presence in Utah, as well as the rest of the Rocky Mountains. 
I am deeply concerned about the Methamphetamine problem in Utah, as well as the rest of the Nation. In my State, distribution by Mexican traffickers has been expanded by using networks established in the cocaine, heroin, and marijuana trades. Wholesale distribution is typically organized into networks in major metropolitan areas, to include Salt Lake City. Utah has 2,500 isolated noncontrolled airstrips which provide a convenient means for drug smugglers to transfer methamphetamine to vehicles for shipment throughout the United States. Also, there are over 65 public airports throughout the State that are not manned on a 24-hour basis, but can be lit from a plane by using the plane's radio tuned to a specific frequency. 
Major highway systems such as I-15, I-70, and I-80 serve to interconnect Mexico with Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming which allows Utah to be an ideal transshipment point to major markets on the west coast, as well as Minneapolis, Chicago, Detroit, and other Midwestern areas. It also results in such illegal drugs being readily accessible throughout Utah. 
According to the DEA, methamphetamine seizures nationwide in 1996 were the highest in over a decade. Not easily dissuaded, particularly when such large profits can be made, Mexican traffickers have begun obtaining the necessary precursor chemicals for methamphetamine from sources in Europe, China, and India. These precursor chemicals needed to manufacture methamphetamine drugs are available in Utah and have contributed to the increased consumption of the drug. Further, ephedrine tablets are purchased in large quantities and then converted to methamphetamine. 
For these reasons I believe that it is imperative that this Congress provide the necessary resources to the DEA to engage in a meaningful methamphetamine initiative. I fully support the Appropriations Committee's report to S. 1022 that recommends that $16,500,000 of the funds appropriated to the DEA be used to fund a methamphetamine initiative, to include an additional 90 agents and 21 support personnel who will be tasked with implementing a broad approach for attacking methamphetamine abuse in this country. I strongly encourage that some of these funds be applied to funding DEA agents with particularized methamphetamine training be stationed in Utah to combat this ever growing threat in my State, and to prevent the methamphetamine lab activities in Utah from continuing to harm other States throughout this Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, there is growing awareness of the huge potential savings to consumers and taxpayers from the prompt approval of generic drugs, a fact which was one of the reasons that Congress passed the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984. That statute created a legal structure that benefits both consumers and the generic industry while providing strong incentives for continued investment by the brand companies in research and development. 
Unfortunately, the success of the act has been limited by the inability of the Food and Drug Administration to comply with its statutory mandate to approve generic drug applications within 180 days. In fact, generic drug approvals now are taking an average of approximately 23 months, nearly four times the statutory requirement, and the number of personnel at the agency responsible for this mission has been significantly reduced. This latter fact is especially troubling since the personnel levels in several administrative areas have grown significantly. 
The Appropriations Committee has taken action to address this failure. Last year, the committee directed the FDA to expend sufficient resources to ensure compliance with its statutory mandates. This year, the committee has further directed the agency to provide the relevant congressional committees 90 days after the beginning of the fiscal year with a plan that explains how the agency will meet the statutory review time for generic drug applications. 
The House Appropriations Committee, apparently losing patience with the FDA, included an extra million dollars in the fiscal 1998 bill for the express purpose of increasing the speed of generic drug reviews. The committee report noted that health care costs have increased to extraordinary levels and that the timely approval of generic drugs could save billions of dollars. The committee also reports that FDA costs related to administrative functions were excessive, pointing out that expenditures for the Office of the Commissioner in fiscal year 1997 far exceeded total expenditures for the offices of the Secretary and all the Under and Assistant Secretaries at the Department of Agriculture. 
It is my strong desire that the conference will give serious consideration to the House Committee's direction of funds for generic drug approvals. It is obvious that if the FDA complies with its statutory mandates, patients will be the winners, especially in terms of the tremendous savings that consumers could reap if generic competitors are sent to market more quickly. Mr. President, this seemingly small and perhaps even insignificant corner of the Federal budget has the potential to help every family in our country by reducing the cost that we all must pay for life-saving pharmaceutical products, and I hope the conferees will give it serious weight. 
In closing, I want to commend you, Chairman Cochran, for the splendid job you have done in crafting this legislation, and pay particular commendation to Rebecca Davies of your staff, who is indeed such an asset to the committee.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that my remarks be considered as morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Reserving the right to object, Mr. President, will the distinguished Senator from Colorado be willing to add a Hatch amendment on national media campaign? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes, in addition to the judges' compensation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, my amendment delinks judges' salaries from our salary problem, because it is unbelievable how terrible it is in many parts of this country that judges do not have an annual COLA. That is what this will grant them. 
Mr. President, I am offering an amendment to establish a procedure for future cost-of-living increases in judicial compensation. This legislation is a portion of a legislative proposal prepared by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, and which I introduced by request as S. 394 earlier this Congress. 
Under current law, salaries for Federal judges are currently linked to congressional and Executive Schedule salaries, so that Federal judges cannot receive cost-of-living adjustments [COLA's] unless Members of Congress and employees on the Executive Schedule receive the same COLA. As a consequence, Federal judges have not received a cost-of-living salary adjustment since January 1994. This amendment would amend section 461 of title 28 to end the current linkage between the judicial, congressional and Executive Schedule compensation. Instead, judicial salaries would be adjusted automatically on an annual basis, in the same percentage amount as the rate of pay of Federal employees under the General Schedule. In addition, the amendment would repeal section 140 of Public Law No. 97-92, thereby removing the current requirement that Congress affirmatively vote for cost-of-living increases for Federal judges. 
Not included in my amendment is language, originally proposed by the Administrative Office and introduced as part of S. 394 earlier this Congress, which would give a one-time salary increase to Federal judges. I do believe this separate, one-time salary increase warrants serious consideration by this body, although not necessarily as part of the second degree amendment I am presently offering. 
If we are to attract and retain the most capable lawyers to serve as Federal judges, it is vitally important that we ensure that those responsible for the effective functioning of the judicial branch receive fair compensation, including reasonable adjustments which allow judicial salaries to keep pace with increases in the cost of living. As Chief Justice Rehnquist stated in his `1996 Year-End Report on the Federal Judiciary,' `We must insure that judges, who make a lifetime commitment to public service are able to plan their financial futures based on reasonable expectations.' This amendment, which I am offering at the request of the Judicial Conference, proposes changes viewed by the Judicial Conference as advancing this objective--an objective with which I believe most Senators would agree. 
Mr. President, I urge adoption of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I would like to comment just briefly here on the nomination of Mr. Joel Klein, who has been nominated for the position of Assistant Attorney General of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. 
Last Friday, I spoke on this floor in support of Mr. Klein and urged my colleagues to support his nomination. I certainly continue wholeheartedly to support Mr. Joel Klein. And I continue to urge my colleagues to join me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would also like to point out that numerous past and present Government officials and attorneys have voiced strong support for Mr. Klein, including James Rill and John Shenefield, who headed the Antitrust Division during the Bush and Carter administrations respectively. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am very pleased that cloture was invoked last week with such overwhelming support. I must say, however, that I was quite surprised, and disappointed even, to find us in the position of voting on cloture for someone as good as Joel Klein. Even I, as chairman or ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, have not filibustered a single Clinton administration nominee for the Justice Department or the Federal courts. I am not saying I will not in the future, but I will say that I have not up until now. 
Indeed, the last filibuster of a Justice Department nominee was over the nomination of Walter Dellinger to head the Department's Office of Legal Counsel back in October of 1993. Of all the nominees I have seen in recent years, I must say that Joel Klein certainly ranks among the very best of them. 
Of course, I know my good colleague from South Carolina would not take this step lightly and without what is, in his view, adequate justification, but in fairness I think we must now move quickly to confirm this nominee who has been awaiting confirmation since May 5 of this year. 
As I explained last Friday, I believe it is critical for the Department of Justice, and the business community generally, to have a permanent, confirmed antitrust chief. Until we do, any antitrust matter before the Department of Justice will invite political maneuvering and gamesmanship by the affected parties, and any ultimate decision by the Department, no matter how justified on the merits, will unfairly be subject to criticism. 
Mr. Klein has, to his credit, not permitted the likelihood of such criticism to deter him from leading the Department to bring closure on critical matters pending before the Antitrust Division. I believe it is most unfortunate that, because of this body's, the U.S. Senate's, delay, Mr. Klein has been unfairly criticized for such decisions. This does a disservice to the Department as well as to those who come before it. 
By urging that we move to confirm Mr. Klein, and in expressing my support for this fine nominee, I intend in no way to diminish the important issues raised by my colleague from South Carolina, and others, regarding competition and antitrust policy in the telecommunications field. Quite the contrary, it is my belief that telecommunications competition and antitrust policy is one of the most important, yet somewhat unsettled, policy areas affecting our emerging and transforming economy. 
In fact, I announce today that I plan to work in coordination with Senator DeWine, who chairs the Judiciary Committee's Antitrust Subcommittee, to explore the looming policy decisions in this area and the role of the Department of Justice in the telecommunications arena. In my view, there are few competitive issues which are more worthy of examination than this one. 
Notwithstanding the tremendous import of the issues raised by some of my colleagues, I believe it is neither fair nor wise to hold this nominee and the Antitrust Division hostage because of concerns about his potential positions in this very turbulent area of the law. In my view, sound public policy is best served by bringing this nominee up for a vote, permitting the Justice Department to proceed with a confirmed Chief of the Antitrust Division, and for us in Congress to move forward and work with the Department and other involved agencies in the formulation and implementation of telecommunications policies. 
So, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote to confirm Joel Klein as Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division. 
I have known Mr. Klein for quite a while, and I have to say I know him well. I also know his abilities well. I can also say, as someone who has had a little experience in the law, that Mr. Klein will stack up with anybody. He is a fine nominee. I commend the President for having made this choice, for having had the foresight to put somebody like this into the Justice Department. 
I commend Mr. Klein for the work that he has done up to date, for his fearless work and not waiting until he is confirmed to act as the acting person in that Department and for the work he did prior to this nomination in that Department. I commend him for a lifetime of service to this country and to his family and to the law firms that he has worked with. 
There is no question he has the academic and other credentials that far exceed the academic and other credentials of many others who served with distinction, who served in the Government of the United States, and particularly in the Justice Department. 
So I am very happy to support his nomination. I hope that today everybody will support his nomination. I think it is the right thing to do. 
Again, I say, my colleague from South Carolina is sincere and dedicated in his effort, but I hope he will see fit to support this nomination as well, on the basis that he has made his case, he has made his arguments, he has stood up for what he believes his principles are, and now it is time to support the President's nominee for this particular, important position in the Antitrust Division.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that the call of the quorum be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 4 minutes to the distinguished Senator from South Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I must say I find some irony in the criticisms I am hearing today regarding Mr. Klein's efforts to implement the Telecommunications Act. In essence, it is being suggested that Mr. Klein's interpretation of the Act would permit local Bell companies to enter the long distance market prematurely, or too easily. 
In fact, however, Mr. Klein has weighed in against Bell entry into long distance in the 2 applications that have, to date, come before him--that is, the SBC and Ameritech applications. So it is curious to me that, while Mr. Klein's only actions in this regard have been contrary to the Bells, his confirmation is being opposed on the ground that he is being too lax on the Bells. This puzzles me. 
But the broader point here is that Mr. Klein has demonstrated a studied, fair approach to interpreting the law, as a general matter. 
I may well disagree with particular decisions Mr. Klein makes, but I am persuaded he will make a top-flight antitrust chief. So I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this nomination. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, do I understand the other side is willing to yield back the remainder of their time and we are prepared to yield back the remainder of our time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of our time. I ask unanimous consent that upon the completion of debate or the yielding back of time on the Klein nomination, we proceed to a rollcall vote on the nomination and then, after that vote we proceed to vote on Executive Calendar No. 139, the nomination of Eric Holder to be Deputy Attorney General of the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. On both nominees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased today that we are finally voting on the nomination of Mr. Eric Holder, nominated to serve as Deputy Attorney General. Mr. Holder was reported out of the Judiciary Committee unanimously on June 24. I support Mr. Holder for this position, and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of his confirmation. 
This is a position which is vitally important to the efficient and effective management of the Justice Department, as well as to this committee and its many dealings with the Department. The Deputy Attorney General plays a critical role in the day-to-day oversight, management, and administration of the Justice Department, typically handling the Department's most important and sensitive matters. The deputy has ultimate responsibility for the office of the Solicitor General, who represents the United States before the Supreme Court, as well as all of the Department's civil and criminal divisions, including, for example, the civil rights, tax and antitrust divisions, the criminal division, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and all U.S. attorneys. In short, a broad array of policy and law-enforcement decisions that are critical not just to our legal system but to the Nation as a whole, ultimately pass through the Deputy Attorney General. 
Mr. Holder comes to us with a distinguished record in the law and in the administration of justice. After graduating from Columbia Law School in 1976, he served for 12 years as a prosecutor in the public integrity section of Justice Department's Criminal Division, after which he served for 5 years as a associate judge for the District of Columbia Superior Court. Since 1993, Mr. Holder has served as U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, our Nation's largest U.S. Attorney's Office, which employs over 300 attorneys and prosecutes over 10,000 cases each year. I believe these positions provide especially useful experience for a person who would serve as Deputy Attorney General. 
I would like to emphasize how important it is to the Senate and the Judiciary Committee in particular, on both sides of the aisle, to have a close and cooperative working relationship with the Deputy Attorney General. I believe that one of the Department's greatest assets over the past several years has been its former deputy, Jamie Gorelick, who successfully fostered and maintained a cooperative, honest, and responsive relationship with this committee. I cannot overestimate how valuable this relationship has been in the virtually daily interactions between the committee and the Department, and I am hopeful, and confident, that Eric Holder will, like his predecessor, work closely with the committee to ensure that the Department maintains the highest level of professionalism and independence in its commitment to enforcing our Nation's laws. I have spoken with Mr. Holder on numerous occasions since his nomination, and am struck that, in addition to being eminently qualified for this position, he is a candid, forthright individual of character and integrity who will be a positive force in steering the Justice Department and in seeing to it that our laws our faithfully and impartially enforced. The Nation expects and deserves nothing less, and I believe they will get as much from Mr. Holder. 
While I have often given Attorney General Reno due credit for the fine work and accomplishments of the Justice Department, not the least of which is the recent trial and conviction of Timothy McVeigh, the Department, like any large agency, also has its share of problems, many of which fall on the Deputy Attorney General's desk. 
Moreover, the Department has been, and inevitably will be, the subject of some rather intense political pressure, and, quite frankly, I am somewhat disturbed by a growing sense that, in a number of instances, there is at least the appearance that political pressures may have won out over the fair and impartial enforcement of the law. After a rather public display by the White House of its displeasure that the Attorney General had previously sought the appointment of four independent counsels, we now see the Attorney General steadfastly refusing to appoint an independent counsel to conduct the campaign finance investigation--the one case where an independent counsel is most called for to ensure public confidence in the investigation and the Department itself. And, after the Attorney General expressly adopted one interpretation of the independent counsel statute, and I challenged that interpretation, we now receive a letter explaining that she has, notwithstanding statements to the contrary, been applying the same standard I articulated. The Justice Department issues bizarre statements seeking to put particular spins on information disclosed by Chairman Thompson in connection with the campaign fundraising hearings. The Justice Department has filed briefs taking rather dubious positions in politically sensitive cases, including its appeal brief in the litigation over California's proposition 209, and its very recent brief defending Mrs. Clinton's invocation of a governmental attorney client privilege in response to independent counsel Starr's request for certain documents. And the FBI Director is in the position of refusing to brief the White House on national security matters because of its pending investigation. While each of these instances, standing alone, might have a legitimate explanation, taken together they create an appearance that politics is influencing what should be a neutral, independent enforcement of our Nation's laws. 
Public confidence in our legal system, and in our Government itself, demands nothing short of this. 
Mr. Holder has given me his commitment to maintaining his own independent judgment, and to seeing to it that the law is fairly and impartially interpreted and enforced as it should be, even when doing so may lead to results that are not politically expedient. That commitment will be as important as ever for the Department as it faces numerous challenges in the coming years. I believe Mr. Holder will remain true to his word, and urge my colleagues to support him.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I wish to rise and join my colleagues in supporting the Smith amendment to the fiscal year 1998 foreign operations bill that would cut assistance to the Government of the Russian Federation if it enacts the onerous bill passed by the Duma last month entitled `On Freedom of Conscience and Religious Association.' 
Mr. President, this bill passed by the Duma is about restricting freedom of conscience and prohibiting the freedom of conscience. It is a major step backward for democracy and human rights in Russia. It takes Russia away from the West and the institutions that protect an individual's freedom of religion. 
The bill passed by the Duma--promoted by an unholy alliance of Communists and Populists whose responsibility to the country appears to focus on restricting its citizens' ability to practice any faith they choose. 
The measures in the bill are deeply objectionable. A few points are worth mentioning: 
Religious groups must register with the government by 1998. In a blatant act of discrimination, the bill assigns different religions to different categories that will afford them different sets of rights. 
For a religion to be deemed a religious organization, it will have to demonstrate that they have officially existed in Russia for at least 15 years. This means that the religion would have had to register under Communist dictator Leonid Brezhnev, at a time when the Soviet Union was officially atheistic and officially repressive to the pursuit of faith. 
Religious groups not deemed in the official, first category of `religious organizations' would have greatly restricted rights. They would have no legal status. Members would have to be individually and officially registered. They groups could not rent public space for services, own property, conduct financial activity, invite foreigners to Russia, or set up church schools. 
To register as a `religious organization,' a religious group would have to (a) be sponsored by a Russian religious organization, (b) undergo a 15-year registration period, and (c) have `authenticity' determined by a commission of state experts, who would review a faith's doctrine for admissibility. This state bureaucracy could deny registration to faiths on a wide range of practices, such as advocating nonmedical forms of healing, monasticism, conscientious objection, and proselytizing to minors. 
Mr. President, the Duma bill on restricting religious rights is contrary to international conventions signed by Russia, including the Helsinki Treaty of 1989, which states: 
[Participating states] will take effective measures to prevent and eliminate discrimination against individuals of communities on grounds of religion or belief in the recognitions, exercise and enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms in all fields of civil, political, economic, social and cultural life; and 
[participating states] will grant upon their request to communities of believers, practicing or prepared to practice their faith within the constitutional framework of the States, recognition of the status provided for them in their respective countries. 
But if the Russian Government wishes to ignore its treaty obligations--which, from our record of arms control agreements, we must recognize is not a unique development--it is still shocking that the Duma egregiously ignores the Russian Constitution, which states: 
The state guarantees the equality of rights and freedoms regardless of sex, race, nationality, language, origin, property and official position, place of residence, attitude to religion, convictions, membership in public associations, as well as other circumstances. Banned are all forms of limitations of human rights on social, racial, national, language or religious grounds. (Art. 19) 
It is indeed of great concern to me, Mr. President, that the Duma sees fit to legislate restrictions on individual rights at a time when Russian society is greatly suffering. Michael Specter of the New York Times recently wrote about the alarming downward spiral in the health of the Russian population. In that article, Specter notes that per capita alcohol consumption is the highest in the world; that Russia has a wider gap in life expectancy between men and women than in any other country; that of the nations of Asia, America, and Europe, Russia's mortality rate is ahead of only Afghanistan and Cambodia; and that the death rate among working Russians today is higher than a century ago. And the indicators are getting worse: the mortality rate for Russian men between 40 and 49 years of age increased by over 50 percent between 1990 and 1995. The reporter concluded: `An astonishing drop in life expectancy for Russian men over the past decade, combined with one of the lowest birthrates on earth, has turned Russia into a demographic freak show.' 
Mr. President, we can expect yelping from the supporters of this bill in the Duma. Delighted to frustrate President Yeltsin's every move, they will claim that international opprobrium against this bill is infringing on Russia's sovereignty. This is not a question of Russia's sovereignty, Mr. President. The calls and letters President Yeltsin has received from political and religious leaders around the world declare our concerns about the freedom of individual conscience in Russia, concerns their elected body should share, not patronize. 
U.S. assistance is not an entitlement. It is a demonstration of our support for the emergence of democracy in a land cursed by communism for most of this decade. If Russia turns back to the night of authoritarianism, we should not squander our resources, Mr. President. 
In the past 2 weeks, we have seen the announcement of the historic enlargement of NATO. The Russian Government opposed this, somewhat disingenuously, I believe, because its concerns where not reflecting the concerns of the Russian people, who are much more concerned with poverty, disease, and rampant crime and their Duma's incessant political posturing, than they are of an alliance that has no historic record of aggression. 
Among those in the West, there were several groups of thinkers who supported this move. Perhaps they could be referred to as idealists and realists. The idealists hold a sense of optimism that believes that the enlargement of NATO is an expansion of democratic societies, which, history has shown, have a lesser tendency to go to war with each other. Certainly the history of NATO is clearly that of a defensive collective organization committed solely to its own defense. 
The realists focused on an unpredictable future and a geopolitical vacuum. This temporal and spatial approach, traditional geopolitics, warns that we do not know the ultimate evolution of the Russian state. It argues that there is little historical experience of democracy in Russia. 
The idealists focus on the internal aspects of NATO and the expansion of democracies. To idealists, the solution to Russia's concerns about NATO would occur when Russia is seen to have fully demonstrated its evolution to rule by democratic institutions. Because would NATO need to defend against such a Russia? 
I would like to think of myself as an idealist, Mr. President. And I support the enlargement of NATO because I welcome Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland to the family of democratic nations. Their membership in NATO will work to preserve their democratic accomplishments. 
But the developments in Russia--in particular this bill against religious freedom by the Duma--cloud my optimism. If Russia turns away from democracy in favor of an ill-considered exercise in demagogic politics, the realists, who fear a future authoritarian Russia and seek to prepare for it, will have their views confirmed. 
Mr. President, I have long supported Boris Yeltsin. In fact, when he first came to the United States in the late 1980's, I was among the few who said, to the Republican administration at the time: `You're focusing on the wrong guy, Gorbachev. This is the man to watch, and this is the man to back.' Since then, I have strongly approved every time President Yeltsin stood bravely for democracy in Russia. When he stood on that tank in defense of Russia's nascent democracy, my prayers were with him. 
I expect that President Yeltsin will veto this bill. That will make this legislation that we will pass today merely a demonstration that this body will stand for religious freedom in Russia. I will stand and applaud him when he vetoes this bill. 
But if this bill becomes law in Russia, Mr. President. Our support for democracy in Russia has been dealt perhaps a fatal blow. We should not waste our funds promoting democratic development on a government that turns away from democracy. And if President Yeltsin signs the the bill against religious rights, Mr. President, I will pray for Russia.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today on behalf of Mr. Joel Klein, who has been nominated for the position of Assistant Attorney General of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. Mr. Klein was reported out of the Judiciary Committee unanimously on May 5. As his record and testimony reflect, Joel Klein is a fine nominee for this position, and I am pleased that his nomination has finally been brought before the full Senate today. He has my strong support and, I believe, the strong support of every member of the Judiciary Committee. 
Now, I believe Mr. Klein is as fine a lawyer as any nominee who has come before this committee. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School before clerking for Chief Judge David Brazelon of the D.C. Circuit and then Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell. Mr. Klein went on to practice public interest law and later formed his own law firm, in which he developed an outstanding reputation as an appellate lawyer arguing--and winning--many important cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. For the past 2 years, Mr. Klein has ably served as Principal Deputy in the Justice Department's Antitrust Division, and for the past several months he has been the Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division. 
It is clear, both from his speeches and his enforcement decisions, that Mr. Klein is well within the mainstream of antitrust law and doctrine and will be a stabilizing influence at the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department. While no one doubts his willingness to take vigorous enforcement actions when appropriate, it is a credit to Mr. Klein that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers and other business associations have written in strong support of his nomination to lead the Antitrust Division. They believe he will be good for American business. And I think they are right. 
At the same time, Mr. Klein has demonstrated a sense of direction and a vision for the Antitrust Division, which is important in a leader. He is committed to enforcing our Nation's antitrust laws in order to uphold our cherished free enterprise system and protect consumers from cartels and other anticompetitive conduct. So, I am certain that Mr. Klein will also be very good for consumers. 
Antitrust doctrine has had its ups and downs over the years--although we may not all agree on which times were which. At this point, however, I am hopeful that antitrust is entering a more mature and more stable period. Although antitrust analysis is fact-intensive and will always contain gray areas, I hope Mr. Klein will work to help make antitrust doctrine as clear and predictable as possible so that companies know what is permitted and what the Antitrust Division will challenge. This will help businesses compete vigorously without the worry and chilling effects that result from uncertainty. I suggest that the Division's goal should be to avoid burdens on lawful business activities while appropriately enforcing the law against those who clearly violate it. 
Finally, I would like to add that personally I have been very impressed with Mr. Klein. He strikes me as a person of strong integrity, as a highly competent and talented lawyer who is well-suited to lead the Antitrust Division. While I expect we may not always agree on every issue, I believe that Mr. Klein's skills and expertise and his personal integrity will be a service to the Department of Justice, to antitrust policymakers, and to the health of competition in our economy. 
I look forward to working with him in the coming years. 
In what appears to be a last-ditch effort to scuttle Mr. Klein's nomination, there are some who have now floated an allegation that the nominee's participation in a particular merger decision was somehow improper. Upon examination, let me say that it appears to me that these reports are wholly unfounded and provide no basis whatsoever for questioning Mr. Klein's conduct. I understand that, with respect to the matter at issue, Mr. Klein consulted with the proper ethics officials and was assured that his participation raised no conflict of interest or even the appearance thereof. Based on what we know, this judgment appears sound, and I am confident that the nominee has conducted himself appropriately. I hope that nobody in this body will use this extraneous, ill-founded notion as an eleventh hour basis for opposing Mr. Klein's nomination. I am confident, having worked with him over the years, knowing him personally as well as I do, having watched him in action, having seen him make decisions, and having seen him apply the law, that Mr. Klein is a man of high integrity, and I urge my colleagues to cast their votes in his favor. 
I might add that some will suggest that Mr. Klein is misapplying the Telecommunications Act and has taken questionable positions on particular mergers. I will refrain here from passing judgment on any particular decision and from engaging in a detailed debate on telecommunications antitrust policy. I fully recognize that there are some very, very important issues at stake here, especially in light of a number of ambiguities left in the wake of the telecommunications law. I also recognize that there have been some controversial mergers in this area, and yet other potentially landmark mergers which have not yet come to pass. 
In short, telecommunications competition and antitrust policy is one of the most important, yet somewhat unsettled, policy areas affecting our emerging, transforming economy. The looming policy decisions to be made in this area cannot be ignored. Indeed, I plan to have the Judiciary Committee and/or our Antitrust Subcommittee fully explore these issues. 
But I believe it is neither fair nor wise to hold a nominee hostage because of such concerns, especially one as competent and decent as Joel Klein. In my view, sound public policy is best served by bringing this nominee up for a vote, permitting the Justice Department to proceed with a confirmed chief of the Antitrust Division, and for us in Congress to move forward and work with the Department and other involved agencies in the formulation and implementation of telecommunications policies. 
I hope that all Senators, and especially those of the President's own party, will permit the administration's nominee to be voted on. 
Finally, let me just say this: I believe that the President deserves a great deal of credit for picking Joel Klein as one of his chief nominations for this year. There are times when I disagree with the President, but I have to say when he does a good job and when he does nominate good people, as he has in these areas in the past in some of the areas of law, in particular, and I cite with particularity some people at Justice, the Director of the FBI and so many other law enforcement aspects of our Government, then I will support the President. 
I will do what I can to show support for him and to encourage him to continue to pick the highest quality people for these positions. I am confident that Joel Klein is of the highest quality. I am confident that he is one of the finest lawyers in this country in this field and I feel absolutely confident that he will do one of the best jobs in history at the Antitrust Division. Anything less than that, I would be disappointed in. I believe he will. He is a fine man. I hope this body will support him. 
I hope when we have the cloture vote on Monday we will invoke cloture and have the debate, allow anybody to say what they want to, but then hopefully vote Mr. Klein up for this position so he can fully embrace this position and fulfill it and do what needs to be done. That is all I will say today. 
I know my colleagues on the other side may have some comments. I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I send a modification to the desk on behalf of Senator Gramm of Texas and myself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This is a modification of the amendment to the Levin amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, what is the pending business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Thank you, Mr. President. 
Mr. President, I rise to speak again in opposition to the Levin amendment, and in support of the Gramm second degree amendment. The Levin amendment, if enacted, would cripple Federal Prison Industries, by essentially eliminating the only market for its products. FPI is not permitted to compete for sales in the private market. It may only sell to the Federal Government, and then only if it can meet price, quality, and delivery requirements. I do not believe that Senator Levin is suggesting that we change the law and allow FPI to compete for business in the general market place. Yet, if we effectively eliminate the Government market for FPI goods, and FPI cannot sell its products to the public, who will its customers be? 
Those advocating elimination of the FPI's Government procurement preference suggest that their goal is only a level playing field, and complain the FPI wages ensure unfair competition. Yet, they do not mention the tremendous costs and inefficiencies inherent in operating a manufacturing operation behind bars. FPI endures security and work force challenges few private plant managers can even imagine. 
FPI puts 100 percent of its revenues back into the private sector. Thousands of private sector jobs depend on supplying FPI with materials and services. My colleagues should ask themselves, if FPI is forced to close its factories, what will replace those private sector jobs? 
FPI is also an essential prison management and rehabilitation tool. Any corrections officer will tell you, the most dangerous inmate is the idle inmate. Idleness breeds frustration, and provides ample time to plan mischief--a volatile combination. Yet, despite the references to the costs imposed by FPI by my colleagues who support this amendment, I have heard no one suggest how the taxpayers will pay for the new prison programs and the additional prison guards that might be needed if FPI factories are forced to close. 
Either we want Federal inmates to work, or we do not. I believe that we do want inmates to work, and therefor I must oppose this amendment. I say to my colleagues, if you believe in maintaining good order and discipline in prisons, or if you believe in the rehabilitation of inmates when possible, you should be opposed to this amendment. 
The Gramm amendment provides a better approach, by requiring a study and report to Congress on FPI and FPI's market needs and impact. As Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I have a strong interest in this issue. I would note that my colleagues who support the Levin amendment have not approached me about addressing this issue in the Committee. 
Congress should consider this issue carefully before effectively eliminating a prison program that has served the Nation well for 60 years. This is particularly the case, as my friend from Texas has pointed out, that Congress allows no other market for prison-made goods and services. If we are going to consider eliminating the government sales preference, I believe it appropriate for us to also consider permitting prison goods to be sold on the open market as well. 
However, even then they may not be competitive because of the differences of efficiency between those who are about a quarter as much productive as the private sector workers are. 
Prison security and prisoner rehabilitation are too important matters to risk hurried action based on emotion. I urge my colleagues to reject the Levin proposal and adopt the Gramm substitute amendment. 
Mr. President, this is an important issue. I hope our colleagues will pay attention to it. I would hate to see what would happen to our prisons if we didn't have this privilege of helping these people to do meaningful work and have the opportunity of selling their goods and services that will be from a quality and price standpoint and delivery standpoint competitive with the private sector. 
Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of our time. 
I understand the distinguished Senator from Texas will be here later. I would like him to have the remaining part of the time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This is a very serious amendment. What the Gramm amendment does is it provides for a study in the procurement program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The only hope we have to rehabilitate these prisoners is to get them to work. The only work they do is Federal Prison Industries work. Basically, they can only sell their products to a Federal procurement program, and they have to be products of quality and products of price and products of distribution that work. So if we take this away from them, we take away one of the most important aspects of rehabilitation of criminals. So I hope people will vote for the Gramm amendment and vote down the Levin amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970709</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I feel constrained to oppose the Levin amendment provision that is filed on this bill before the Senate, as it is a matter that is properly within the jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committee which has not had an opportunity to consider it. 
More importantly, in my view, this amendment, while well intentioned, is unwise policy. 
This amendment would essentially abolish the Federal Government's purchasing preference for products supplied by Federal Prison Industries [FPI], also known by its trade name of UNICOR. 
FPI is the Federal corporation charged by Congress with the mission of training and employing Federal prison inmates. 
For more than 60 years, this correctional program has provided inmates with the opportunity to learn practical work habits and skills, and has enjoyed broad, bipartisan support in Congress and from each Republican and Democrat administration. 
FPI and its training programs at Federal prisons across the Nation have been credited with helping to lower recidivism and ensuring better job-related success for prisoners upon their release--a result that all of us applaud. 
This amendment, in its starkest terms, requires of us a choice--either we want Federal inmates to work, or we do not. I believe that we do want inmates to work, and therefore I must oppose this amendment. I say to my colleagues, if you believe in maintaining good order and discipline in prisons, or if you believe in the rehabilitation of inmates when possible, you should be opposed to this amendment. 
Under current law, FPI may sell their products and services only to the Federal Government. The amendment we are debating would not alter this sales restriction. 
To ensure that FPI has adequate work to keep inmates occupied, Congress created a special FPI procurement preference, under which Federal agencies are required to make their purchases from FPI over other vendors as long as FPI can meet price, quality, and delivery requirements. 
This amendment would remove this procurement preference. Without the Federal Government's procurement preference, FPI probably could not exist. Again, FPI is not permitted to compete for sales in the private market. It may only sell to the Federal Government, and then only if it can meet price, quality, and delivery requirements. 
Nothing short of the viability of Federal 
Prison Industries is at issue here. Under full competition for Federal contracts, combined with market restrictions, FPI could not survive. 
My colleagues should remember that the primary mission of FPI is not profit, but rather, the safe and effective incarceration and rehabilitation of Federal prisoners. Needless to say, FPI operates under constraints on its efficiency no private sector manufacturer must operate under. For example, most private sector companies invest in the latest, most efficient technology and equipment to increase productivity and reduce labor costs. Because of its different mission, FPI frequently must make its manufacturing processes as labor-intensive as possible--in order to keep as many inmates as possible occupied. 
The Secure correctional environment FPI in which FPI operates requires additional inefficiencies. Tools must be carefully checked in and out before and after each shift, and at every break. Inmate workers frequently must be searched before returning to their cells. And FPI factories must shut down whenever inmate unrest or institutional disturbances occur. No private sector business operates under these competitive disadvantages. 
The average Federal inmate is 37 years old, has only an 8th grade education, and has never held a steady legal job. Some studies have estimated that the productivity of a worker with this profile is about one-quarter of that of the average worker in the private sector. 
My colleague's amendment has not been considered by the Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over FPI and, more generally, National penitentiaries under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the Senate. 
The Committee has not had the opportunity to consider the full impact of this proposal on FPI and prison work. 
All share the goal of ensuring that FPI does not adversely impact private business. Indeed, FPI can only enter new lines of business, or expand existing lines, until an exhaustive review has been undertaken to the impact on the private sector. Again, this is a restraint that most other businesses do not have imposed on them. 
FPI has made considerable efforts to minimize any adverse impact on the private sector. Over the past few years, it has transferred factory operations for multiple factory locations to new prisons, in order to create necessary inmate jobs without increasing FPI sales. FPI has also begun operations such as a mattress recycling 
factory, a laundry, a computer repair factory, and a mail bag repair factory, among others, to diversify its operations and minimize its impact on the private sector, while providing essential prison jobs. 
I agree with my colleagues who believe that we must address the issues raised by prison industries nationwide. As we continue, appropriately, to incarcerate more serious criminals in both Federal and State prisons, productive work must be found for them. At the same time, we must ensure that jobs are not taken from law-abiding workers. 
On jobs there is substantial evidence that FPI actually creates a substantial number of private sector jobs. In fiscal year 1996, some 14,000 vendors nationwide registered with FPI, and supplied over $276 million in sales to FPI. 
Every dollar FPI receives in revenue is recycled into the private sector. Out of each dollar, 56 cents go to the purchase of raw materials from the private sector; 19 cents go to salaries of FPI staff; 17 cents go to equipment, services, and overhead, all supplied by the private sector; 7 cents go to inmate pay, which in turn is passed along to pay victim restitution, child support, alimony, and fines. FPI inmates are required to apply 50 percent of their earnings to these costs. One cent goes to activating new FPI factories--again, with equipment purchased from the private sector. Private businesses in every State benefit from these sales. 
In short, FPI is a proven correctional program. It enhances the security of Federal prisons, helps ensure that Federal inmates work, and helps in their rehabilitation when possible. The amendment before us now would do immense harm to this highly successful program, and I urge my colleagues to oppose it. 
I think it is the right thing to do to oppose it. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970709</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I want to take a few moments today to talk about this process. I have to say that having gone through the three BRAC processes we have had in the past, having traveled from city to city to make the cases that we made, having fought very hard to try and make sure the process was honest and decent, having lived through it, where the defense depot in Ogden was shut down--we felt, for very poor reasons. The only reason was that it was more interior, it seems to me, than the bases on the various coasts. But it seems to me that that was one of its great advantages. It would be much more difficult to attack if we got into difficulty. 
But we lived with that. We lived with the shutdown of the Tooele Army Base, which literally had the greatest heavy-duty vehicle repair facility in the world, just completed at a cost of almost $200 million to the taxpayers. And they shut down. Now they wish they had not because they now don't have the facilities or quite the same capability to take care of Army heavy-duty vehicles. It was a stupid thing to do. But that is what they did, in spite of the fact that Utahans have the chemical weapons destruction facility there. And we put up with all of the hazardous problems of storing chemical weapons in Utah and even transporting them around with various aspects in and out of Utah and with the chemical weapons demilling that we do there. 
Utahans have always been very patriotic. They have supported the military as much, if not more so, than any other State in the Union, and I think the attitude is still that way in spite of some of these glaring inequities that have occurred. We lived with those. We can accept them. 
I agree with the distinguished Senator from Arizona. We should shut down bases that do not deserve to compete, or really aren't competitive, or really are dealing with old, worn-out, less modernized facilities and also equipment, and work done on various less modernized pieces of equipment. But what we are getting very upset about lately is that we went all through this BRAC process, and we worked our tails off trying to make a case for the Hill Air Force Base and Ogden Air Logistics Command. We did. It came out No. 1 without question. It was the best Air Logistics Command in all of the Air Force--in all of the military. The work force was one of the best in the history of the country. And we won. So did Tinker Air Force Base. So did Warner Robins. 
Mr. President, they won because they were more competitive. These three bases won because they could do a better job. They won because they literally made sense as far as keeping our Air Force modernized and working well with the best equipment possible. Three work forces appeared to be the best, and certainly Hill was No. 1. Since that has happened, Hill has gone down to about a 54 or 55 percent utilization of capacity. 
I have to say this. With that low utilization of capacity, which should be up around 85 percent had the transition work been given to Hill, and which we hope will be given to Hill, if we could get it up over 70 percent of capacity, as high as 85 percent of capacity, Hill Air Force Base would be so competitive that nobody could compete with them in the world today. But at 54 or 55 percent, it means that the costs are much higher than literally they would be if we were utilizing the capacity in a fair and decent manner. 
I have to say that we have had many Air Force people tell us they don't want to ever see Hill hurt because it is the best Air Logistics Command in the armed services today. But their hands are somewhat tied by the administration that is playing politics with the BRAC process. 
The administration has indicated because there are two Presidential States involved that even though the full BRAC process said that McClellan Air Force Base in Sacramento had to be shut down and that Kelly Air Force Base in San Antonio had to be shut down, the administration has indicated they don't want them shut down. As a matter of fact, they are now talking about privatization in place. It is nice to talk about that if all things were equal--if literally good business principles were practiced; if literally there was not any stacking of the deck in either case; if literally the regulations that would be written would be fair. Maybe there could be an argument for that. 
But the only argument that should be made for privatization in place is after the consolidation of the three Air Logistic Commands that won the competition. Once they are consolidated, then I have no problem with trying to place some privatization and have private companies bid on some of the work. 
Keep in mind that one reason why we don't go straight to privatization is because during time of war, we want to be able, above all things, to be functional, and we don't want to have to worry about whether prices are going to be jacked up by private companies, or whether or not we have the capacity to take care of the needs of our fighting men and women overseas, or for any other number of reasons. 
Mr. President, the President's politicization of the BRAC95 process has become a common theme on this floor. I admire the willingness of so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to explicitly state that privatization-in-place was not intended by BRAC, and that this deliberate evasion of the BRAC recommendations can only portend defeat for those seeking future BRAC rounds.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in strong support of the historic tax relief plan, the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1997, that is before the Senate today. Change has finally come to Washington and the fruits of that change are beginning to be realized. Who would have thought that 3 years ago that the American people would be receiving a $85 billion tax cut today, especially after the huge $265 billion tax increase that President Clinton pushed through in 1993? 
It is a proud day for this body and for the American people to finally witness a Congress with the courage to enact a plan to restrain Federal spending and balance the budget. Also very important is the savings that will be passed on to the American people in the form of tax relief. One thing we easily forget is that tax revenues belong to the taxpayers. This historic bill will simply return the taxpayers' own money back to them. 
Mr. President, important to this debate is how this tax package is being received and the work that has gone into making this bill a good piece of legislation. This bill was reported out of the Finance Committee with overwhelming bipartisan support, and I hope that there is overwhelming bipartisan support for its final passage. I want to commend my colleague and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee for the balanced, bipartisan bill he spearheaded. 
Mr. President, working families in this country do not take the paying of taxes lightly. How could they? They pay payroll taxes, income taxes, property taxes, and other taxes. In addition to the amount of taxes taken out of every paycheck, families reconcile what income taxes they owe to Uncle Sam every April 15, and millions must send a check to the government for additional taxes. The American taxpayers understand and realize that their tax payments go to providing needed Government benefits and to support the freedoms we enjoy. However, enough is enough. It is time to cut the fat out of Government and lower the Federal tax burden. And, it is time to reduce the burden of budget deficits on taxpayers, mortgage holders, small businessmen, students, and all others having or needing loans. It is time to stop passing off the burden of current spending onto our children and grandchildren. 
Mr. President, this tax relief plan contains significant tax cuts in a variety of areas. I will not take the time to comment on every provision and change in the bill. However, I would like to comment on a few of the main areas of tax relief which I have long advocated. 
First, families with children will receive a $500 per child tax credit. Raising children in today's world becomes more expensive each year. This $500 credit will put more money in the 
hands of parents to help them better afford the high cost of raising children. It's real money back into the bank accounts of American families. 
Second, this bill would provide a number of proposals to ease the burden of paying for college. I hear again and again about the high cost of colleges and universities. And, I have some personal knowledge on this point, Mr. President. I not only put myself through both college and law school, I have also, as a father, put my six children through college. I know the sacrifices that are necessary. 
This tax bill would provide a tax credit for tuition expenses, a deduction for student loan interest, and an expansion of the current pre-paid tuition programs. And, important to elementary and secondary school teachers, the bill contains a provision to remove from the 2-percent itemized deduction limitation educational expenses related to furthering the skills of the teacher. Teachers have great influence over our children. Well trained teachers are critical to preparing our children for the challenges of the future. 
Third, this bill contains important tax cuts to stimulate economic growth and to further the creation of jobs. I have long been an advocate of reducing the tax on capital gains. During debate this week, we have heard a great deal of discussion about the rich versus the poor and who gets what out of this tax bill. Let me make it clear that everybody benefits when jobs are created through economic growth. A capital gains tax cut creates jobs and economic growth. Government investment is limited in what it can do to help people economically. Encouraging private sector investment will foster the most efficient and effective ways to better the economy. I firmly believe that the capital gains tax relief in this bill is the most important thing we can do for economic growth in this country. 
Expanding an existing business, starting a new venture, or bringing a new invention to market requires capital investment to make happen. Tax policy has a tremendous impact on the amount of capital investment. Under the current law, gains from capital investments are taxed twice, once when the income is earned and again when that income is distributed to the shareholders. Cutting the capital gains tax rate will encourage more investment which will translate into the creation of more jobs. This change is absolutely critical to maintaining a strong economy well into the future. 
I am also pleased to see relief from the death tax in this bill. Nowhere is the damage of onerous taxation more evident than our current estate tax. It is an inefficient tax that really should be abolished. Families should not have to face a tax bill that forces the involuntary sale of assets shortly after putting a loved one to rest. I hope that we can increase exemption from this onerous tax as quickly as possible. 
Mr. President, another critically important provision in this bill is the $8 billion in additional money for children's health insurance. This is important for the most vulnerable of our citizens--low-income children. The future of this country lies with our children. We cannot ignore the gap in our health care system that does not currently provide vision or auditory screening, or other preventive health care. The provisions adopted by the Finance Committee, and ratified by the full Senate by an overwhelming vote, are significant and will help address these yet unmet needs in a responsible manner. I applaud my colleagues for their support of this important program. 
Mr. President, there are a number of other tax relief provisions in this bill and also many other tax simplification provisions that are very important. I personally wish we could have done more in many of these areas. 
But, the fact that we are passing this legislation today, and the promise of the President that he will sign it into law, means that the bill has been a bipartisan effort. As such, it is a compromise and is not perfect from any one Senator's point of view. If you polled all 100 Senators, I am sure each of us would mention provisions we would like to have written differently. 
There were a number of amendments offered to this bill that I support and would have liked to vote for. However, when anyone participates in a negotiation and becomes a party to an agreement, he or she cannot willy-nilly support changes to that agreement just because you happened to like someone else's idea better. It stands to reason that you cannot persuade others to compromise if they cannot expect your adherence to whatever agreement is reached. I gave my word to Chairman Roth and to my colleagues on the Finance Committee to maintain the integrity of the compromise bill that we passed out of the Finance Committee on a strong bipartisan basis. I am also constrained from voting to further increase the cigarette tax even though it could be used to finance laudable objectives in childrens health or to increase the deduction for health insurance premiums paid by those who are self-employed. 
Of course, there are also some provisions in this bill that I am not enthusiastic about and would cheerfully drop were they not part of the agreement. 
But, taken as a whole, this tax package is a good mix of tax relief provisions that will go a long way to lower the average American families' tax burden. This is an historic piece of legislation, and I am proud to support its passage.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, for some time now the Judiciary Committee has been working on issues dealing with copyright protection on the Internet and the copyright rights of performers and sound recordings. The Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act that I introduced was passed in 1995, and my National Information Infrastructure Copyright Protection Act was the subject of two hearings in the last Congress. The NII Copyright Protection Act was superseded by the Clinton administration's effort to deal with many of the same issues in the context of two new treaties, the World Intellectual Property Organization [WIPO] Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty. 
These treaties were concluded successfully in Geneva in December 1996. Since then, I have been eagerly awaiting the administration's draft of implementation legislation. To date, I have not received such legislation, and the Foreign Relations Committee has not received the treaties. I know that the administration shares the respect that I have for copyright, and I commend Bruce Lehman, the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, for the splendid work that he did on negotiating the treaties, but I am concerned that 6 months have passed without draft legislation for the committee to work on. 
Both WIPO treaties were completed in record time, because there was a sense of urgency about the vulnerability of U.S. copyrighted works to massive infringement by means of Internet access and about insufficient international copyright protection for sound recordings. Where is this sense of urgency now? Nothing has changed. Our copyright industries are still threatened. 
In 1994, copyright-related industries contributed more than $385 billion to the American economy, or more than 5 percent of the total gross domestic product. This represents more than $50 billion in foreign sales, which exceeds every other leading industry sector except automotive and agriculture in contributions to a favorable trade balance. From 1977 to 1994, these same industries grew at a rate that was twice the rate of growth of the national economy, and the rate of job growth in these industries since 1987 has outpaced that of the overall economy by more than 100 percent. 
Yet these same industries lost an estimated $18 to $22 billion to foreign piracy in 1995. The film industry alone estimates that its losses due to counterfeiting were in excess of $2.3 billion for that year, even though full-length motion pictures are not yet available on the Internet. The recording industry estimates its annual piracy losses in excess of $1.2 billion, with seizures of bootleg CDS up some 1,300 percent in 1995. These figures promise to grow exponentially as technology provides for quicker, more perfect digital reproduction, which is exactly why timely ratification of the WIPO treaties is so important.. 
I urge the administration to complete its work and to send the treaties to the Senate. I would like to get the treaties ratified and implementation legislation passed during this session of Congress. That goal may already be unachievable because of administration delay. I hope not. I'll try my best. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I will respond to my colleague from 
Massachusetts. Because of the unique situation in which we were able to add this spending provision to the tax bill, this is the way it is written. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The original Hatch-Kennedy bill proposed a $20 billion health insurance program for children, plus it contributed $10 billion for deficit reduction. It was a 5-year authorization. Both of the sponsors assumed--and I believe properly so--that this program will work well, that children will benefit from it, and that it will be reauthorized at the end of 5 years. I have no doubt that is the case here as well. 
But the provision the Finance Committee adopted continues the tax beyond the 5-year period, and the revenues may be used for other purposes. 
To be clear, I assure my colleague from Massachusetts that, should this program work well, we will be revisiting it in 5 years. 
And there is an additional point I wish to make for those of my colleagues who believe the additional funding is not needed. It seems fairly clear that the $24 billion, as important a sum as it is, will not cover all of the 10 million children who lack insurance. If we are very, very lucky, or if the Congressional Budget Office is smiling on us that day, it will cover at most about 8 million children. These figures are obviously subject to the way the States craft their programs, their cost-sharing requirements, and whether the States choose block grants or Medicaid. 
For example, if all of the States chose Medicaid, which I do not believe would happen based on conversations I have had with Governors, I estimate that the most children we could cover with the $24 billion is around 5 million. 
The other point I feel compelled to raise is that the CBO estimates are coming in very meager. I am not sure why, but they have been consistently scoring the major children's health proposals as helping very few children. 
For example, I am told their preliminary estimate for the CHIPS proposal was that it would cover 2 million kids. Their initial estimate on the House-passed block grant was that it would help around 500,000 children, although that was later revised to 860,000. 
As a simple gauge, I use the figure of $1,000 per child to measure coverage. This is more than the Federal share of an average Medicaid child, and equal to or slightly less than the average high-quality group health plan. This is also the rough measure that Dr. Bruce Vladeck at HCFA uses. 
Based on that rough calculation, $24 billion over 5 years would cover just short of 5 million kids per year. That assumes that the funding were equal each year, and it assumes that there would be absolutely no inflation. 
But to those who express concern about the shelf-life of the $8 billion figure we are considering today, the bottom line is that we are going to see how this program works. 
I assure my friend and colleague and partner on this effort, 
a legislator who has been a tireless advocate for children for decades, that if this program works and it is benefiting children, we are going to reauthorize it five years from now. 
It is that simple. I give my assurances that I intend to do everything in my power to live up to that promise. And I hope that our colleagues will support that. 
This particular amendment has been brought up separately--not as part of the overall bill--because it is a spending amendment on the tax bill. 
Because a point of order has been lodged, we need 60 votes in order to retain my provision in the bill. 
I believe I am not overstating it--and I would like my colleagues to correct me if I am wrong--when I say that resolution of this issue as part of the total tax spending package was the critical juncture in bringing us together in the Finance Committee. That is a key reason why we have had so much support on both sides of the aisle. 
So, it is critical that we pass this as part of the overall plan. I hope our colleagues will take that into consideration. 
The tobacco tax is considerably less than that embodied in the Hatch-Kennedy bill, S. 526. But because of the $16 billion already in the spending bill we passed last night--which most would agree was placed there largely in response to the original Hatch-Kennedy filing--and because of the $8 billion we are adding today, we should have an adequate amount to take care of a substantial number of uninsured children in the foreseeable future. 
If we approve this proposal and then retain the full $24 billion in the final conference agreement that is signed by the President, it would be a terrific thing for our society. 
Adoption of this amendment can only help bring a larger bipartisan vote on the tax bill. And, in the end, I think we could all walk away feeling that we had accomplished the most significant advance in children's health for decades. 
I yield at this point.  
Mr. CHAFEE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this morning we started the first of a series of hearings in the Judiciary Committee on the tobacco global settlement. I have to say that the funding for this $8 billion, as well as a number of other provisions that will be in the tax bill, happens to come from the 20-cent-per-pack tax on cigarettes. 
The reason that Senator Kennedy and I originally put into our original bill a 43-cent tax on cigarettes is because tobacco is the number one preventable cause of death in this country today. 
It is particularly important in this instance because of these 10 million children who are without health insurance, 5 million of them it is estimated will ultimately wind up smoking if we do not find some way to make smoking less attractive for them. It is also a proven fact that every time smoking goes up 10 percent in cost that 7 percent of these kids will never attempt to smoke, which is a very wise thing here. It is a spinoff benefit that we get in adding the cigarette tax. 
I might also add that 50 percent of all smokers began before the age of 14, and 90 percent began before the age of 18. 
So this particular amendment and this particular aspect of this particular bill has many, many good reasons for its adoption. 
I hope our colleagues will support this because I think it is critical, and I think my colleagues on both sides who are really familiar with this will say that it is critical in the overall binding together in a bipartisan way of Democrats and Republicans in the best interest of our country and in support of these major, major two pieces of reconciliation legislation. 
If you stop and think about it, this is one of the most just taxes that we have ever passed, and we have limited it to 20 cents rather than 43 cents. The advantage of that is that we will raise enough money to help not only children but help with some other serious problems on the committee. 
It was a very difficult discussion because we always have revenue-raising problems, we always have offset problems, and we always have problems of differences on the Finance Committee. But here basically everybody was brought together. Ultimately this side of the equation passed 18 to 2. The spending side passed 20 to zero. 
I hope our colleagues will support this amendment because it is critical to the overall passage of this matter. 
It is also critical to these children. I don't know of a better thing we can do. We spend an awful lot of time around here doing an awful lot of good for people who can't help themselves, and here is a case where we have children 90 percent of whom live in families with at least one parent who works who can't help themselves but would if they could. This is the way to solve that. 
It is a reasonable compromise. It is something that will work. It gets enough money out there in comparison to Hatch-Kennedy that I think it will work. It does it in a thrifty savings way. 
I want to personally compliment the chairman and the ranking member of this committee and other members of this committee for their willingness to see through the solution of these problems with this amendment. I hope my colleagues on our side will support this amendment. I hope our colleagues on the Democrat side will support it because in doing so we will be pushing this process greatly forward. 
I thank all of those who have participated and who will participate in helping us to do so. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, why do we need 8 billion on top of the 16 billion already appropriated? 
We learned earlier that the House Commerce block grant may be scored as reaching only 860,000 uninsured children. I understand that this is a complicated matter because some funds will be used for direct services and not to purchase insurance. But it just shows you that this whole area is not cheap. 
We heard from Bruce Vladeck it costs about $1,000 or so for a good, solid insurance policy. We also know that the Federal share of Medicaid this year averages about $860 per child. 
In the first year of the CHILD Program there will be an even 50/50 split between health care and deficit reduction so that $3 billion will be used for program costs. In year five, this program component will grow to $5 billion. 
Using these numbers as a guide, it seems reasonable to expect that, depending a great deal how states chose to implement this program that our bill will be able to cover about 3.5 million or so children in the early years of the program and about 5 million children in the fifth year. 
There are many variables such as which States chose to participate, what their State matching requirement is, what coinsurance and copayments they require, and so on. We must also take into account inflation which will erode the purchasing power of the yearly allocation. 
Another way to look at the problem is to see how many children the $16 billion in the budget agreement could cover. This $16 billion amounts to an average of $3.2 billion per year. If we used all of this money to buy Medicaid coverage at $860 per child, it would cover about 3.7 million children. 
This would still leave 1 million children under 125% of poverty with no health insurance. 
Twenty-four billion dollars is about $4.8 billion per year spread over 5 years. 
Depending on how States implement the program, cost-sharing requirements and so forth, I think that would cover between 5 and 6.5 million, perhaps 7 million children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to oppose the amendment by my colleagues, Senator Bumpers and Senator Gregg. This amendment would repeal the percentage depletion allowance for mineral extraction. It would, however, only repeal this allowance for minerals extracted from any land obtained pursuant to the provisions of the mining law of 1872. This amendment is discriminatory and bad policy. 
Minerals are not free for the taking or inexpensive to mine just because they are on land obtained from the 1872 mining law. In truth, significant capital is invested during the development of a mine. Capital costs often reach close to $400 million to develop a major mine. 
In addition, there is a lot of time invested in the development of any mine, and it has increased even more in recent years. Just getting a permit for a new mine on Federal lands has increased from a 1-year time frame to 3 or 5 years over the last 4 years. 
The rationale for the depletion allowance provisions in the Tax Code are not just targeted to mineral extraction. They are the same for oil and natural gas, coal, and metals extraction as well. This allowance recognizes the unique nature of resource extraction. It is designed to provide a practical method of measuring the decreasing value of a deposit as the materials are extracted. It recognizes that the replacement cost of new mines are always higher in real terms. This allowance helps the mining industry to generate the capital needed to bring new mines into production. 
Mr. President, mines mean jobs. They are not just vacuums sucking our minerals out of the land at a low cost. They are economic entities that extract valuable resources for circulation in the economy and provide millions of jobs for American citizens. These are direct jobs. But, mining produces essential raw materials for manufacturing in other industies. Think about the untold number of jobs that are indirectly linked to mining. 
Moreover, jobs in the mining industry are not just minimum wage jobs, either, Mr. President. The Bureau of Labor Statistics tells us that the average mining wage is $45,270 per year. This is significantly higher than the average national wage of $27,845. 
This amendment would have a severe effect on the mining industry. It means thousands of lost jobs. These jobs are high-paying jobs that raise the standard of living of millions of workers. 
This amendment means a significant reduction in mining activities all over the Nation. This will have a corresponding effect on the tax base and economies of the areas dependent on a sound and viable mining industry. 
The effects of this amendment will not only be 
felt in Western States, where mining is abundant, but will be felt across the Nation. 
This amendment destroys more than just the economics of mining communities. It also harms the stewardship of our national mineral wealth. Companies will be encouraged to spend their scarce exploration and development funds in an atmosphere more favorable to them. The political and regulatory climates overseas already beckon to our mining companies. By making our tax climate so unfavorable for these mining companies, we are practically giving them the push they need to move overseas. 
Make no mistake about it, this amendment will have an effect on our national production. Imports will replace the loss of domestic production, moving high-paying jobs and economic activity to other countries. This is not the way to ensure a stable economy in the United States. 
Mr. President, let's put aside the fact that this is such bad tax policy. This amendment is an administrative nightmare. Most mining projects consist of land and rights obtained from a variety of sources. For example, a large open pit mining operation may include private property acquired through homestead laws, patented mining claims, unpatented claims, State lands, and 1872 mining law land. How is a company supposed to figure out where a mineral comes from? 
This amendment would require mining companies to find some way of tracing the ore extracted just from the mining rights obtained from the 1872 mining law. This would often mean that the depletion allowance would apply to a shovel of ore from one location, but not to a shovel of identical ore from 10 feet away. This is ridiculous. 
This amendment does not appear to be an attack on the percentage depletion allowance for mineral extraction. It is only targeted at a specific segment of this industry relating the 1872 mining law. 
I do not disagree that this mining law should be debated and reformed. I do not agree that it should be reformed using a piecemeal approach through the Tax Code. If we are going to reform the 1872 mining law, let us do it in a thoughtful, comprehensive manner. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to support Senator Kohl's amendment. This amendment would provide tax credits to encourage businesses and other institutions to provide child care for their employees. 
This proposal, which is similar to one that I included in my original child care bill several years ago, would provide a tax credit for businesses that build on- or near-site day care centers, jointly participate with other businesses in running child care centers, or contract with child care facilities. This amendment is important in order to meet the rapidly increasing demand for child care. I recognize the importance of finding safe places for our children while their parents are at work, preferably places where they can learn and have wholesome fun. We use the Tax Code to encourage a variety of private endeavors; we should not hesitate to use the tax code to encourage private businesses to become involved in providing child care for dependents of their employees. 
This tax credit would be equal to 50 percent of the qualified child care expenditures up to a maximum of $150,000, paid or incurred by the employer during the taxable year to acquire, construct, rehabilitate, expand, or operate a qualified child care facility. 
Parents of young children are joining the work force in record numbers, leading to more young children in the need of care as their parents go off to work. There are more single parents today than ever before. In has been reported that up to 62 percent of working mothers have children under 6 years old and 59 percent had children under 3 years of age. This amendment would give incentives for any company, small or large, to provide child care to its employees. 
Studies have shown that organizations that provide child care benefits to their employees attract and retain better qualified applicants and experience reductions in employee absenteeism. But, the argument goes that if the employer benefits from providing child care benefits, why should we subsidize the costs with a tax credit. That is not a bad question. 
But, I suggest that society has a stake in this as well. Not only will our workforce respond positively given the peace of mind that comes from knowing that your children are safe and thriving, but also, we must be concerned with the health and safety of our children. It is disturbing whenever we read about children left alone or children in inadequate or unsafe facilities. I believe that the small innovation of a tax credit to defray the costs of employer-sponsored child care will do wonders to address this increasing need of American families. 
Mr. President, child care is an investment for the future. It is good for business, good for our communities, and good for the Nation. There certainly is a need for quality child care. As a nation, we have made significant increases in the education of our older children, aged 5 to 25. We have increased Headstart. But, we need to do more. And, we need to create more options. 
This tax credit proposal made by Senator Kohl is the least intrusive and least expensive way I can think of to stimulate private sector investments in child care. It is now time to set the infrastructure in place for the most important years in the development of our children. There is an increasing struggle to balance work and family. How well we respond will determine the success of our future. 
I encourage my colleagues to support this important amendment, and I commend Senator Kohl for his work on it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970625</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, last year, I stated on the Senate floor that `our country stands at a crossroads on the path it travels in relations among the different races and ethnic groups that make up the American people. Down one path is the way of mutual understanding and goodwill; the way of equal opportunity for individuals; the way of seriously and persistently addressing our various social problems as America's problems. * * * Down the other path is the way of mutual suspicion, fear, ill will, and indifference; the way of group rights and group preferences.' 
I am proud to stand today with my colleagues in the House and the Senate, and others who have worked so hard for the cause of opportunity, to announce the introduction of the Civil Rights Act of 1997. The act represents our best efforts to recommit the nation to the ideal of equal opportunity for every American--to emphasize that we must resist the temptation to define the nation's problems in narrow racial terms, and rather must roll up our sleeves and begin the hard work of dealing with our problems as Americans, and as fellow human beings. 
Of course, our critics will imply that those of us who today reject divisive racial preferences and distinctions do so because we underestimate the social, economic, and discriminatory obstacles some Americans face. President Clinton, for example, told his audience in San Diego last week that `[t]he vast majority of [Californians who supported that state's Proposition 209] did it with a conviction that discrimination and isolation are no longer barriers to achievement.' But that is just plain wrong. 
To the contrary, last week in the Senate Judiciary Committee we heard from a panel of ordinary citizens who movingly told us of their experiences with discrimination in America. Among them was a Chinese-American mother from San Francisco, Charlene Loen, who told us how her young son Patrick was denied admission to an elite public magnet school, Lowell High School, because he is Chinese. The school district's efforts to ensure diversity among its students led it to employ a system of racial preference that had the effect of capping Chinese enrollment in many of its schools, forcing Chinese children to score much higher on entrance exams than children of other races. At virtually every public school Ms. Loen approached, she was first asked whether Patrick was Chinese, and when learning that he was, would inform Ms. Loen that Patrick need not apply. The Chinese quota was in effect full. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the promise of America. 
There should be no question that discrimination indeed continues to deny opportunities to too many Americans. At the Judiciary Committee's recent hearing we heard from black Americans, white Americans, Asian Americans, and even a victim of an outrageous hate crime. But the question that we all must answer is whether one American's racial suffering should be valued above another's. It is a question that will only become more complicated and more urgent as our population grows ever more diverse. 
As we in the Judiciary Committee now know, when we prefer individuals of one race, we must by definition discriminate against individuals of another. But America's great social divide can never be crossed until we begin the work of building a bridge of racial reconciliation. By saying today, with the introduction of this act, that the Federal Government stands for the principle that racial discrimination in all its forms is wrong, we hope to take a small step forward on the path to healing the nation's racial wounds by recognizing that every American is equal before the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, late last week the Senate Finance Committee completed work on one of the most significant and important pieces of legislation considered in the U.S. Congress in recent memory. By a vote of 18 to 2, the Committee approved its portion of the Budget Reconciliation Act of 1997, S. 947, the bill we are debating today. 
As a member of the Finance Committee, I can vouch for the hard work that went into the development of this historic legislation. It has not been an easy task by any stretch of the imagination. 
The bill is not perfect. But it is a good start. And I hope it will get even better as it moves forward in the legislative process. 
And, I want to take this opportunity to commend the chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Roth, and the ranking minority member, Senator Moynihan, for their outstanding leadership in forging a consensus on what has been one of the most contentious issues presented to the committee since I have been a member. 
The committee was presented with budget reconciliation instructions earlier approved by both the House and Senate and tasked to provide for significant changes in federal spending and program authorizations principally in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 
As my colleagues well know, these two entitlement programs are currently growing at unsustainable levels. Even the President's own handpicked members on the Medicare Board of Trustees reported as early as April 1995 that the `Medicare program is clearly unsustainable in its present form' and that Medicare Part A will be bankrupt in the year 2001 unless structural changes are implemented soon. 
The legislation currently before the Senate attempts to address the numerous and oftentimes conflicting issues associated with reducing the rate of growth in Medicare expenditures while preserving the level of services available to current and future beneficiaries. 
The one message that we must convey to our constituents is that we have preserved the needs of Medicare beneficiaries while addressing the fiscal imperative of bringing some discipline in Medicare spending. Both objectives are not mutually inconsistent. 
Not only have we restrained Medicare growth over the next five years to a point that preserves fiscal integrity for now and the future, but we have provided beneficiaries with greater choices of health care plans. `Medicare Choice' will now make it possible for beneficiaries to have greater options in how they want their health care provided. 
In fact, not only will this legislation provide more options for beneficiaries, it will offer them more information about those options. 
Better Information about Coverage Options: One provision of the bill requires that beneficiaries be provided with information about the extent to which they may select the provider of their 
choice, a concern of many elderly. The need for this provision was pointed out to me by the Utah Psychological Association. The measure was included in the 1995 Balanced Budget Act, and I am pleased that it was carried over to the bill we are considering today. 
Another information provision was suggested to me by Utah Governor Mike Leavitt, who correctly pointed out that states are making information on managed care available to beneficiaries of state-funded programs. Governor Leavitt suggested that the Federal government be required to coordinate the information it provides with state efforts; that amendment is included in the bill today at my request. 
The traditional fee for service systems, which all beneficiaries have come to know, will still be there for those who wish to choose that system of health care delivery. But we are also going to provide more managed care options such as Health Maintenance Organizations and Preferred Provider Organizations as well as Medical Savings Accounts to beneficiaries who desire to participate in those plans. 
No longer will America's seniors be limited to one or two choices in health care. They will now have greater choices which will lead to more competition, a greater diversity of services especially in rural areas, and increased savings to the federal government which is fundamental to the overall well-being of the Medicare program. 
Home Health and Skilled Nursing Facilities: I am particularly pleased with the provisions pertaining to home health care and skilled nursing facilities or SNFs. In fact, the legislation reported by the Finance Committee incorporates many of the important provisions contained in legislation I introduced, S. 913, the Home Health Care Prospective Payment Act, and S. 914, the Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment Act. 
I have long supported efforts to enhance the quality and delivery of care provided by home health care agencies and skilled nursing facilities. These organizations perform extremely valuable services to our nation's elderly and disabled citizens. And, as our population increases in age, the role of these services in our society will become an even more critical component in the provision of health care. 
It was also apparent from our hearings that the costs associated with home health care and SNFs have been rising at a disproportionately higher level compared to other components of the Medicare program. Indeed, part of this increase can be attributable to the fact that most people prefer to be treated in the familiar surroundings of their home. 
Accordingly to the General Accounting Office, `After relatively modest growth during the 1980's, Medicare's expenditures for SNFs and home health care have grown rapidly in the 1990's. SNF payments increased from $2.8 billion in 1989 to $11.3 billion in 1996, while home health care costs grew from $2.4 billion to $17.7 billion over the same period.' Over that period, annual growth averaged 22 percent for SNFs and 33 percent for home health care, the fastest growing components in the Medicare program. 
Unquestionably, the rate of growth in home health care led to considerable discussion over the need for a new, minimal copayment for home health visits as a measure to reduce over utilization. The committee approved a capped $5.00 copayment 
per visit which will be billable on a monthly basis and limited at an amount equal to the annual hospital deductible under Part A. 
I am mindful that we do not want to impose additional costs particularly on the poor. But there was near universal agreement that some method was needed to curtail the seemingly unchecked utilization of these services. 
This is an issue we will have to monitor closely as the program is implemented recognizing the administrative difficulties in collecting these co-payments as well as the impact on beneficiaries. 
Home Health and Skilled Nursing Facilities Prospective Payment System: Perhaps the most significant reform that is included in both pieces of my legislation and which is now included in the Finance bill are the provisions for a prospective payment system for both home health and skilled nursing facilities. This provision will help create the proper and needed financial incentives for providers to behave in a more cost effective manner while protecting the quality and continuity of care for beneficiaries. 
We have learned a great deal about Medicare reimbursement since we passed the Prospective Payment System for hospitals in 1983. We know the value of a proper transition so providers can manage their agencies toward a permanent system. We also know that we can model a payment system that encourages providers to manage costs and utilization better. We also realize that moving to a new reimbursement system is a massive undertaking. 
I believe the Finance bill moves in the right direction to ensure cost-effective care for millions of beneficiaries today, and well into the next century. 
Rural Health Care: The issue of health care in our rural communities was also an item which received considerable attention. As we begin to provide Medicare beneficiaries with greater choice in the delivery of their health care, it is apparent the financial incentives to providers to development of these systems in rural communities simply do not exist. 
Accordingly, it was necessary to change the manner and level of reimbursement for managed care organizations that wish to provide services in nonurban areas. 
In 1983, Medicare began making payments to qualified `risk-contract' HMOs or similar entities that enrolled Medicare beneficiaries. The intent was to give Medicare beneficiaries the opportunity to enroll in HMOs as a more cost effective alternative to fee for service health care. 
In effect, Medicare makes a single monthly capitated payment for each of the organization's Medicare enrollees. This payment equals 95 percent of the estimated `Adjusted Average Per Capita Cost [AAPCC] of providing Medicare services to a given beneficiary under a fee for service system. 
The committee legislation proposes to raise the Medicare payment for each year through 2002 which will have the effect of providing the necessary financial incentives for managed care organizations to develop and sell products to beneficiaries in rural communities. This will be particularly beneficial to residents of my state which has a strong managed care presence in our urban areas but, as yet, little penetration in rural locations. 
Debate on the AAPCC was extremely lively in Committee; it is 
a hard task for set payment levels at an amount that will provide incentives for managed care, but which will also encourage cost-efficiency with no diminution of services for the elderly and disabled. 
I want to comment on two issues associated with the AAPCC that will be before the conference committee. The first is the transition from a locally based payment rate to a rate that is decoupled from fee-for-service reimbursement. The Medicare Equity and Choice Enhancement Act authored by Senator Grassley establishes a five-year phase-in of a 50/50 blend of the input price-adjusted national average rate with an area-specific rate. I think this is a fair transition and one which I hope will be preserved in conference. 
The second issue associated with the AAPCC is removing from the calculation payments for graduate medical education and disproportionate share hospitals. That change, reflected in the Finance bill, will allow a more equitable calculation of the AAPCC, one which will help ensure that teaching hospitals receive the reimbursement they need. 
On the issue of reimbursement for managed care, I continue to remain disturbed about the bill's provision which, in essence, discounts by five percent payments for new beneficiaries. I fully appreciate the need to find a `risk adjuster' which will provide us with a better measure of the cost per beneficiary, but to me the 5 percent discount is arbitrary. It will penalize organizations that are doing exactly what we are urging them to do: enroll new beneficiaries in managed care. This is something at which I hope the conferees will take a closer look. 
Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries: Another payment issue, that of qualified Medicare beneficiaries (or `QMBs') is of great concern to me. 
Current law requires Medicaid to pay Medicare cost-sharing charges for individuals who are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid assistance. These individuals are `dual eligibles' and QMBs who have incomes less than 100% of the federal poverty level (FPL) and meet other requirements. 
Medicaid frequently has lower payment rates for services than would be paid under Medicare. Medicaid program guidelines permit states the flexibility to pay either (a) the full Medicare deductible and coinsurance or (b) cost sharing only to the extent that the Medicare provider has not received the full Medicaid rate. 
Several federal courts, including the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 11th Circuit Courts of Appeals, have interpreted current law as allowing providers to claim Medicare cost sharing for QMBs and dual eligibles in excess of Medicaid payment rates. Therefore, some state Medicaid programs are now reimbursing Medicare providers to the full allowable rates. 
With the exception of one trial court decision in California, the courts have overruled the HCFA policy that does not require the full Medicare payment. 
I strongly prefer the outcome of the appellate courts and oppose the particular provision of the Finance Committee version of the Reconciliation bill that acts to reverse the four Federal Courts of Appeals decisions and will allow lower reimbursement for QMBs and dual eligibles. 
My position is consistent with the first of the principles adopted by the Chairman in the Medicaid mark: `Enhance the 
ability of the Federal and State government to meet the health care needs of vulnerable populations.' 
QMBs and dual eligibles are poor, and mostly elderly, individuals that are dependent on both Medicare and Medicaid in order to receive quality health care. 
Dual eligibles and QMBs are the very elderly (greater than 85 years old) and the very sick. For example, about 40 percent of QMBs have a cognitive or mental impairment (including many with out difficult chronic conditions such as stroke and Alzheimer's). 
Minority group Medicare beneficiaries are more likely to be dual eligibles. Compared with the general Medicare population, dual eligibles are more likely to be women, living alone. 
The QMB/Dual Eligible population is financially dependent on Medicaid to provide the needed supplemental insurance coverage to Medicare. 
The bill, as reported by the Finance Committee, allows states to act in a fashion that would deny providers the full Medicare level of benefits for these particularly needy QMB and dual eligible beneficiaries, and will unintentionally fray the safety net precisely where it needs to be strengthened. 
For example, a recent study by the Physician Payment Review Commission reported that 43 state Medicaid programs identified serious problems in maintaining adequate levels of physician participation chiefly due to already low payment rates. 
In fact, the study found that, over a 15 year period, sate spending on physician services per Medicaid recipient failed to keep pace with Medicare by more than a threefold factor. 
The better policy is to adhere to the precedent of the great majority of courts that have considered this issue and continue to compel these payments for these beneficiaries. 
Frankly, it is difficult to see how the provision in the Finance bill to lower reimbursement for QMBs and dual eligibles will result in anything other than in undermining the willingness of providers to treat QMBs and dual eligibles. 
The Second Circuit, one of the several courts that have ruled in favor of the framework I find preferable, reviewed the relevant laws and legislative history in concluding: `* * * Congress sought to avoid a wealth-based, two tiered system of health care for the elderly and certain disabled and indeed wanted to integrate all of those who were Medicare-eligible into the existing health care system.' 
As the 11th circuit said in the Smith Case, 36 F.3d 1074: `we reject * * * attempts to wring ambiguity from a statute where there is none.' 
The bill as reported by the Finance Committee is ambiguous, but is unambiguously a poor policy and will certainly affect the care received by those many physically frail QMBs and dual eligibles negatively. 
I strongly prefer the House position on this particular issue because by not adopting the Senate Finance Committee policy it protects individuals whose health and income status place them in a precarious medical situation. 
As the Washington Post editorialized, on June 16, 1997, on the problem of the dual eligibles: `* * * suddenly Medicare, which was set up to be a uniform, universal system for all the elderly and disabled, becomes a two-tier system, with different levels of payment and 
therefore, in the long run, quite different levels of care for the better and the less well-off.' 
We should not act to decrease access to quality health care for poor, sick and predominantly old individuals. We should retain and enlarge, not reverse, a policy on QMB and dual eligible reimbursement that many, including four Federal appellate courts, have concluded is consistent with the letter and spirit of both Medicaid and Medicare. 
Chiropractic Care: Turning to another issue of great interest to me, that of chiropractic care for Medicare beneficiaries, I am hopeful that the conferees will be able to approve Representative Crane's provision, which I had hoped to offer in Committee. 
Chiropractic services are currently provided in the Medicare program; however, the coverage is extremely limited to treatment by means of manual manipulation of the spine. Moreover, current law requires chiropractors to obtain an x-ray before payment will be made even though Medicare will not pay chiropractors to take the x-ray. 
I had initially planned to offer an amendment identical to the language in the House Ways and Means Committee that would remove the requirement for x-rays as a condition of coverage and payment of chiropractic services. I would note that this provision also had the support of the Administration and was included in their budget proposal as well. 
Unfortunately, the Congressional Budget Office scored the provision as costing $600 million over a five-year period. And, although it was included in the Ways and Means bill as I previously mentioned, the Finance Committee spending parameters did not allow for its inclusion principally due to the cost estimate. 
Accordingly, I offered an amendment proposing a two-year demonstration project to study the cost effectiveness of removing the x-ray requirement as well as allowing doctors of chiropractic to order and perform x-rays in both a fee for service and managed care setting. I am grateful that Chairman Roth indicated he would conditionally accept my demonstration amendment on the basis that a final CBO would be de minimis. With that understanding, the committee unanimously approved my amendment. 
I was astonished to learn yesterday that, in fact, the CBO scored my amendment at $900 million--a third more than the entire provision in the House! I have asked for a complete justification of this figure, but pending that review, the Committee had no choice but to drop my amendment. 
I firmly believe that affording greater access to chiropractic services by beneficiaries will not only result in reduced Medicare expenditures but will also reduce the performance of needless surgery to correct back problems. 
I hope that as this issue is addressed in the conference committee, that the Ways and Means language will prevail, and will, therefore, bring a more pragmatic approach to the delivery of health care to our seniors. 
Durable Medical Equipment: On reimbursement for durable medical equipment (DME), I am happy to report that the committee agreed to include an amendment I proposed which would allow beneficiaries to buy more expensive equipment than that allowable under Medicare and pay the extra amount out-of-pocket. This is an amendment originally proposed by our former colleague, Senator 
Bob Dole, and I think it makes a good deal of sense. Since this provision was contained in the Balanced Budget Act of 1995, I am extremely optimistic it will become law this year. 
Orthotics and Prosthetics: On the topic of reimbursement for orthotics and prosthetics (O&P), I am grateful that the bill includes an annual update of at least one percent over the coming five years. O&P providers design, fit, and fabricate braces and limbs for persons with physical disabilities. As such, this small industry is distinct from DME. O&P suppliers have much less control over the costs of their program than DME suppliers, given that it is hard to imagine `induced demand' for O&P equipment. Consequently, I hope that any provisions undertaken to restrict the growth of DME, which I recognize is a concern, will not be attributed to O&P as well. 
Home Oxygen Services: One of the most contentious, and for me, most troubling, issues associated with this bill was how to set the appropriate reimbursement level for home oxygen services. 
None of us want to see quality diminished for this vital service. That is clear. 
But the Committee was presented with very compelling evidence that payment levels are too high. 
For example, the General Accounting Office report comparing oxygen services in the Veterans Administration to those under Medicare concluded that the Health Care Financing Administration is paying almost 40 percent too much for home oxygen. 
I will be the first to admit that I do not know what the exact number should be. Nor is there any statistical measure that can be reliably employed. 
I will say that there was virtual unanimity that the current payment levels are too high. However, given the need to ensure continuing high-quality services for beneficiaries, I am much more comfortable with the House provision. Serious questions have been raised about the severity of the Finance recommendation and the effect that it could have on small, rural providers such as many who operate in my home state of Utah. If we are to err, I would rather err on the side of quality. 
Fraud and abuse: I would also like to comment briefly regarding the new fraud and abuse provisions in the bill. The bill, as amended by Senator Graham, contains new, significant and, in some respects, untested anti-fraud and abuse penalties including additional Medicare exclusions and civil monetary penalty authority. 
I believe that we need effective fraud and abuse enforcement tools. I just want to be sure that these provisions do not have any unintended consequences or implications that would penalize innocent parties who are following the letter of the law. 
Many of these provisions found in the Finance bill as amended are actually based on provisions contained in the Administration's fraud and abuse legislation introduced earlier this year, and on which no hearings were held in the Senate. 
As a general rule, we in the Congress should not act without the full and open benefit of hearings so that all parties have an opportunity to comment, and so that legislation can be modified as appropriate. 
While I am not going to oppose these provisions, I do have reservations about some of them. And, I am encouraged to learn that the House intends to address some of these in conference. 
The expanded authority with respect to the imposition of 
civil monetary penalties was particularly troublesome. 
The two provisions at issue included (1) the addition of a new civil monetary penalty for cases in which a person contracts with an excluded provider for the provision of health care items or services, where that person knows or should know that the provider has been excluded from participation in a federal health care program; and, (2) the addition of a new civil monetary penalty for cases in which a person provides a service ordered or prescribed by an excluded provider, where that person knows or should know that the provider has been excluded from participation in a federal health care program. 
While, certainly, no provider should contract with or furnish services ordered or prescribed by another provider whom they know to be excluded, the provisions also would subject providers to civil monetary penalties where they `should know' that another provider is excluded. 
This `should know' standard has the potential to create anxiety among providers. What would rise to the level that a provider `should know?' In my view, these provisions target the wrong providers--they punish the provider who is serving the patient based on a legitimate and legal prescription, rather than the excluded provider who is at fault. 
For example, retail pharmacies fill thousands of prescriptions per month based upon prescriptions from numerous prescribers. It is not hard to imagine a situation in which a pharmacy would be unwilling to fill an emergency prescription for a sick child late at night in a rural community. The pharmacist might not have enough information about the prescribing doctor to risk a $10,000 fine. 
I think it is extremely important to clarify our expectations on this issue and others within the CMP section. Accordingly, I am pleased that Chairman Roth agreed to the inclusion of report language that, in effect, clarifies that the committee `does not intend these two new civil monetary penalties--for arranging or contracting with an excluded provider, or for providing items or services ordered or prescribed by an excluded provider--to impose an affirmative burden on providers to find out if another provider has been excluded from a federal health care program. Rather, only in instances where a provider acts in deliberate or reckless disregard of another provider's excluded status may the government seek to impose civil monetary penalties under these provisions.' 
Community Health Centers: Before turning to the final issue I wish to discuss, I just wanted to take a moment to mention my appreciation that Chairman Roth agreed to continue the current reimbursement system for Federally-Qualified Health Centers. 
FQHCs are the best way I know to deliver high-quality, low-cost care to underserved areas. They are increasingly being squeezed in today's managed care environment, in large part because they are providers of last resort and have no insurers on which to shift costs if they are underpaid. Studies have indicated that Community Health Centers, for example, are only receiving about half of their costs from managed care entities. Faced with that situations, CHCs have little recourse, and can only hope that their appropriated funds make up the difference. 
This is a situation that I intend to follow closely. No one likes to argue for cost-based reimbursement; that is not a particularly effective payment mechanism. But, to require CHCs 
and Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) to provide services at less than cost is also inefficient, and stifles the development of a cheaper alternative form of health care delivery which is proven to be high quality. There is no easy answer here, but let us not undercut these great little providers while we seek a solution. 
Children's Health Initiative: Finally, I want to close by commenting on what may be the most important provision of this bill: the children's health insurance initiatives. 
Let me just say that a lot of progress has been made on the issue of children's health in the 105th Congress. 
I believe that, when the history of this Congress is written, two of the most important chapters will address the balanced budget agreement and the children's health initiative. It seems only fitting that this budget reconciliation bill that brings the budget into balance includes the key funding and program provisions on children's health insurance. Our kids will have a healthier future in both of these important respects. 
Let us be clear why we take these major actions to include $24 billion in new spending over the next 5 years to pay for children's health insurance. 
An estimated 10 million American children are without health insurance. 
This amounts to about 25 percent of the nation's uninsured individuals. 
In my state of Utah, about 10 percent of our children lack health insurance. This amounts to about 55,0000 uninsured children in my state. 
Because the Medicaid program is targeted to provide health care to poorest of the poor, it is important to understand that many of the uninsured children in our nation come from working families with incomes just above the poverty level. 
In fact, about 88 percent of these uninsured children come from families where at least one parent works. 
What I have been trying to do over the last few months is to help these children from America's working families. 
That's why I teamed up with Senator Ted Kennedy to introduce the Children's Health Insurance and Lower Deficit Act (CHILD). In essence, this twin legislation, S. 525 and S. 526, calls for an increase in the federal tax on tobacco products in order to finance a voluntary program of state block grants for children's health insurance and to provide for deficit reduction. 
Because of our well-recognized divergent philosophies, Senator Kennedy and I had hoped that, by drafting compromise legislation, we would be able to attract support for our legislation across the political spectrum. 
By and large, we have been successful with working with advocacy groups like the Children's Defense Fund and the Child Welfare League to raise awareness of this issue. And, I believe we should give credit to these organizations--as well as to health care providers such as children's hospitals and American Academy of Pediatrics--for their tireless and long-standing efforts to highlight the health care needs of children in our country. 
And, although I do not see eye to eye with Senator Kennedy on all, or even most, matters, I must commend my friend from Massachusetts for all of his work and vision on this important issue. There is no more tenacious advocate in the United States Senate for a cause he feels strongly about than Senator Kennedy. 
The Senator from Massachusetts and I worked hard to arrive at a compromise that would be attractive for many. As an ardent anti-tax, anti-big government conservative, the critical tasks were to devise a program that did not centralize decisionmaking in Washington and that did not have the potential of growing out of control. It was also essential that it be paid for. 
While I am generally loathe to increase taxes, the adverse health effects of tobacco and their concomitant costs to society, not to mention the costs to public programs, made raising the tobacco tax a `two-fer.' 
Tobacco is a killer. I don't know of any other product that, when used as directed, will kill you. 
Tobacco accounts for an estimated 419,000 American deaths annually. In 1993, cigarettes killed more of our fellow citizens than AIDS, alcohol, car accidents, fire, cocaine, heroin, murders, and suicides combined. 
About 50 million Americans smoke. 
About 1 in 5 deaths are smoking related. 
4 of 5 smokers begin by age 18. About half by age 14. 
Each day 3000 young Americans begin to smoke. 
Experts believe that tobacco costs society $100 billion annually, including $50 billion in direct health care costs. 
Of this $50 billion, there are $10 billion in annual costs to Medicare; $5 billion in Medicaid; $4.75 billion to other federal programs; and, $17 billion in increased insurance premiums. 
Not only does tobacco kill, it also results in a tremendous amount of unnecessary health care costs. 
When all is said and done, use of tobacco products comprises the number one preventable public health threat. 
A strong argument can be made that it is this unique public health threat posed by tobacco that forms the basis of the justification for raising the tobacco tax. 
The American public overwhelmingly approves of the idea of financing children's health programs through an increased tobacco tax. 
An April 26, Wall Street Journal/NBC poll asked the public its opinion of financing state block grants for children's health care through an increase in the tobacco tax. 
72 percent of Americans agreed with this proposal. 
And this support cuts across almost every demographic category. For example, more than 50 percent of smokers agree with the idea of increasing tobacco taxes to pay for children's health insurance. 
So the case against tobacco and for a tobacco users tax increase is strong. 
Overall, I am pleased with the children's health provisions of the reconciliation bill as reported by the Finance Committee. 
Those involved in the efforts over the last few months to increase materially the funding for children's health insurance should take credit for the addition of $24 billion in new funding over the next five years. 
Few could have thought that we could have come so far so fast in this effort. 
I know that there are some that think we have, in fact, gone too far, too fast. 
But I think that these critics who deny that we can utilize this average $4.8 billion in funding wisely and prudently are just wrong. 
If all of the states, for example, exercised the Medicaid option of the block grant we know, applying the $860 per person average federal contribution for a Medicaid covered child, about 5.58 million children could be covered. This is barely half of our nation's uninsured children. 
There are a number of ways to look at such a statistic. But in this case, I think the glass is clearly half full. If we take care of more than half of the uninsured children in our nation we will have achieved a major accomplishment. 
It is also possible that if states chose to exercise the block grant option, we will be able to take care of more kids than possible under Medicaid. 
At this point, no one can know with certainty how many states will use Medicaid and how many will use the block grants. 
We do not know what eligibility criteria and financial requirements that states implementing the block grants will chose to adopt. All of these factors will affect how many children will be covered. 
But before we get too caught up in focusing on the number of children covered, we must not lose sight that it is also important to see what benefits that covered children are going to receive. 
The Finance Committee heard expert opinion from the Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, Dr. Bruce Vladeck, that it costs about $1000 per child for a quality children's health insurance plan. 
So even with the increased flexibility of the block grants, do not be misled to believe that $4.8 billion per year is somehow 
too much money. Even when we add in the required state matching rate and co-insurance and co-payment requirements, it is hard to project that even two-thirds of the nation's uninsured children will be taken care of by this $4.8 billion a year. 
Also, inflation in the health care sector will eat into the purchasing power of the average $4.8 billion per year allocation. 
As I argued last week in the Finance Committee, I would have preferred to get the entire $20 bill in children's health insurance funding over the $16 billion already set aside in the budget resolution. I pointed out that, taken together, these funds could have taken care of the projected 7 million of the nation's uninsured that live in families with incomes under 240 percent of the federal poverty level. This would represent about 70 percent of the uninsured children in this country. 
While I was not able to persuade the full Finance Committee to allocate the full Hatch-Kennedy legislation on top of the initial $16 billion set aside, I am pleased that the Committee did agree to the essence of the Hatch-Kennedy CHILD legislation by imposing an increased tobacco tax to finance children's health block grants to states. 
Frankly, I think that one of the great watershed events of the return of Republican majorities in both chambers of the Congress is that the days of tax and spend are over in favor of a more fiscally responsible climate in which new taxes are seldom proposed and, if proposed, scrutinized with the highest degree of skepticism. 
This is tough medicine but it is what we have to do to set our fiscal house back in order. We need to let working Americans keep more of their hard-earned money by looking for ways to tax and spend less of their income. 
So, would I have preferred more money for children's health in the Finance Committee bill? Yes. 
But, I would much more rather be in the position of having my colleagues on the Committee nearly unanimously support a tobacco tax that will generate, in part, an additional $8 billion over five years for children's health that I would like to be in an uphill, all but hopeless, battle to win a major floor amendment on a fast moving reconciliation bill. 
To me, the $8 billion in hand was more certain than the $20 billion in the bush--so to speak. Moreover, I believe that the positive, bipartisan support for the Finance Committee provisions bodes well for both the success for the provisions and the program itself. The last thing I want is to make children the subject of an acrimonious debate over concepts and details. 
This, of course, assumes that the Senate funding level and tobacco tax structure prevails in conference. 
I have told my colleagues on the Finance Committee, some of whom--it is a matter of public record--are very much opposed to this source of tax revenue and this funding level, that if the Senate tobacco tax and children's health funding levels are changed in conference then I will pursue, in every way that I know how, more funding. My goal is to get this done, not just put out a press release about it. 
Let me also say that it will be my firm position that any funds allocated toward children's health from the so-called `global tobacco settlement' should be considered as distinct from, and additive to, the funds earmarked for children's health in the Senate reconciliation bill. 
One of the major reasons that I decided to compromise on the amount of funds that I would seek from the Finance Committee in the reconciliation process is because I was aware of the possibility that additional funding may be available from the global settlement. 
But let's not kid ourselves here. The global settlement faces a tough road as it wends its way through the Administration, Congress, the Courts, and--perhaps most importantly--the court of American public opinion. 
Suffice it to say that I will strenuously resist any effort to reduce in conference or subsequently any of the children's health funding already secured. But, I also believe that my colleagues in both the House and Senate will see the merit in the provisions adopted by the Finance Committee. The need is compelling; the compromise program is reasonable; and it is paid for by taxing a commodity that not a single person can defend as worthwhile. 
While I did not get everything that I wanted in this legislation, it is seldom the case that any one legislator gets all that he or she wants. Since this is not a monarchy but a democracy, compromise and consensus building is what distinguishes our form of government. 
Given the original philosophical lines of scrimmage, I think the children's health provisions represent a good compromise. The bottom line is that we can all take pride in this provision. 
The advocates for children and public health should take credit for successfully raising the concern about the problem of uninsured American children to the level of concern that a major funding commitment--$24 billion over 5 years--was included in an otherwise very frugal budget balancing bill. That's a big achievement that will benefit literally millions of American children into the next century. 
The governors should take credit for the fact that the final package approved by the Finance Committee gives the states a great deal of flexibility in devising programs and eligibility criteria that will work best in their respective states. I am confident that the governors will use their creativity to establish programs that deliver high quality health care to the children of working families. 
Let me hasten to add that I recognize there are some provisions in the bill of which the children's advocates and the governors do not approve. I understand those concerns. We all want to provide the best possible health care to our kids. But we also want the money to go as far as possible. It is a balance, and we have endeavored to set the scales right. 
But politics is the art of the possible. Only because of the debate that we have engaged in over these last few months--a debate comprised of many perspectives and many heated moments--it will now be possible to help millions of American children to reach adulthood in good health. 
I see this as both good public health and evidence that Congress is capable of working constructively to address the nation's business.  
CONCLUSION 
In closing, Mr. President, I count myself among those who have worked hard for a balanced budget. As much as each of us wished otherwise, balancing the budget is not some idle task. Indeed, it is the most difficult of endeavors. We are faced with hard choices, choices that have serious consequences for citizens everyday. 
Again, if I were the only senator writing this bill, I would have written some provisions differently. I would have more tax relief, for example. I would have spread spending reductions more evenly over the five-year period. 
And, if I can't have everything I want, President Clinton cannot have everything he wants. 
But, on balance, I think that this bill lives up to its goals. Senators on both sides of the aisle, but especially the Senator from New Mexico, deserve to be commended for developing this legislation. 
When we pass this bill, Congress will have passed another balanced budget bill. We will have preserved Medicare for the foreseeable future, and we have made a considerable downpayment on our children's health. And that is the most important legacy we can leave to our country's future. 
I urge President Clinton to give this bill his unequivocal support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, over the past several months, I have been developing legislation to dramatically reform the way Medicare pays for home health services. This effort builds on my work in the Finance Committee during 1995 where I strove to see a prospective payment system for home health services included in the Balanced Budget Act agreement. 
The culmination of this year's efforts is a bill I introduced on June 16, the Home Health Care Prospective Payment Act of 1997 (S. 913). The Home Health Care Prospective Payment Act is intended to achieve three primary goals: 
First, the bill will create incentives for providers to behave in a more cost effective manner. 
Second, it will help assure that the federal government achieves the necessary savings it seeks in order to ensure the solvency of the Medicare program well into the next century. 
And third, perhaps most importantly, my bill accomplishes these first two goals while protecting the quality and continuity of home health care services for beneficiaries. 
As my colleagues are aware, I have been a strong supporter of home health care services ever since I came to this body. I have applauded changes that have made it easier to treat Medicare patients in the most cost-effective setting. The changes we have made to the system have benefited many patients who would otherwise have not received care. In other cases, these individuals would have had to wait until their health deteriorated to the point of having to be admitted to a hospital. This outcome was neither cost effective nor good health care policy. 
We have learned a great deal about Medicare reimbursement since we passed the prospective payment system [PPS] for hospitals in 1983. We now know the value of a proper transition period so that providers will be able to manage their operations toward a permanent system. 
We also know that we can model a payment system that encourages providers to manage costs and utilization better. We realize that moving to a new reimbursement system is a massive undertaking. The amount of data, time, and expense is enormous. It is especially important not to unnecessarily burden health care providers, Government, or patients with administrative requests. 
My legislation proposes to begin a transition to a home health care PPS immediately, rather than waiting until fiscal year 2000. Instead of relying on cost limits, we can begin using predetermined rates in an initial PPS system during fiscal years 1998 and 1999. 
The principle behind prospective payment is to shift the risk from the Government to providers. This is done by rewarding providers for keeping their costs below the rates--or having them absorb the loss if their costs are over the rates. Therefore, I propose we incorporate a limited shared savings plan during the initial 2 years of the PPS to encourage more cost effective behavior by health care providers. 
In addition, there needs to be greater sensitivity to the data demands and consequences in our proposal. For example, there needs to be some discretion for the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to designate a different base year for extraordinary situations that may arise in a particular case. There are other proposals that may be considered that might be good ideas in and of themselves. Some proposals, however, may impose data, time, or cost demands that are unnecessarily burdensome to providers, patients, or the Government--but may not be necessary for PPS implementation. 
The changes I am proposing in my legislation are not new to the Senate, but merely reflect the information and legislative history we have gained through our consideration of Medicare payment reforms. My legislation will make home health care reform consistent with that history. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on June 16, 1997, I introduced legislation, S. 914, proposing to revise the present system in which the Medicare Program pays for services provided by skilled nursing facilities [SNF's]. This legislation builds on my work in the Finance Committee in 1995 when the committee included a proposal I authored to implement a prospective payment system for nursing home payments. 
As currently structured under Medicare, seniors receive up to 100 days of skilled nursing facility services following a 3-day hospitalization stay. Currently, those services are reimbursed on a cost-plus basis. As Medicare has evolved, however, so have systems of cost-plus reimbursement. 
For many years, I have worked with my colleagues in the Senate to provide seniors with the services they need in a skilled nursing facility setting. I have worked to modify the Medicare reimbursement methodology in order to provide economic incentives to SNF providers to provide the highest quality of care at a reasonable and affordable price to the Medicare Program. 
My legislation will accomplish that goal. 
Congress initially began requiring prospective payments for skilled nursing facilities in the early 1980's. However, the Health Care Financing Administration [HCFA] has not been able to identify an appropriate payment methodology, and how best to define the services provided to seniors in a comprehensive way. Nevertheless, we have come a long way since the mid 1980's in understanding the proper structure of prospective payment systems. We are now on the verge of fundamentally revamping the current cost-plus payment system for these important services. 
Let me briefly describe the key parts of my legislation. 
First, during fiscal year 1998, the Health Care Financing Administration will begin phase one of a per diem, prospective payment system [PPS] for skilled nursing facilities. Such payment would be based on historical data regarding a particular facility's costs and services provided. While it is expected that the new rate is an all-inclusive rate, encompassing routine costs, ancillary services, and capital-related expenses, during the first year, HCFA is likely to adjust both the inclusion of ancillary services and capital costs only when they have sufficient data to adequately measure and quantify the level of those services. 
It would be unfortunate for HCFA to put into effect a system that did not adequately account for the medical services offered to residents within a skilled nursing home. I urge HCFA to implement and include all ancillaries only when the data and the information are adequate. 
Second, during the 4 four years the prospective payment system will evolve into a full PPS system where the services for an individual in a skilled nursing facility bed will be adjusted for their medical and nursing needs. This legislation calls on HCFA to develop a case-mix methodology that adequately reflects the medical needs of each patient. I have heard from many experts that the current case mix methodology does not adequately reflect certain medical needs of many skilled nursing home patients. It is my intention that the case-mix methodology be current and reflect all services provided. 
And third, once this system is in place, it will provide the right kind of economic incentives so that providers will seek all services medically necessary. The Medicare Program will not be in a situation of overpaying for such services; it will provide a competitive balance so that all skilled nursing services, regardless of whether they are hospital SNF beds or 
freestanding SNF beds, will have comparable incentives to provide high quality services to beneficiaries. 
It is extremely important that we change the existing and limited incentives in the Medicare system so that providers will offer services in the most cost-effective way. Hospitals are already under a PPS system; physicians are reimbursed on a predetermined rate as well. This approach is now the next important step in our continuing effort to ensure appropriate fiscal responsibility by the Federal Government while also ensuring that seniors have access to the important health benefits offered under the Medicare Program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, last year, I stated on the Senate floor that `our country stands at a crossroads on the path it travels in relations among the different races and ethnic groups that make up the American people. Down one path is the way of mutual understanding and goodwill; the way of equal opportunity for individuals; the way of seriously and persistently addressing our various social problems as America's problems. * * * Down the other path is the way of mutual suspicion, fear, ill will, and indifference; the way of group rights and group preferences.' 
I am proud to stand today with my colleagues in the House and the Senate, and others who have worked so hard for the cause of equal opportunity, to announce the introduction of the Civil Rights Act of 1997. The act represents our best efforts to recommit the Nation to the ideal of equal opportunity for every American--to emphasize that we must resist the temptation to define the Nation's problems in narrow racial terms, and rather must roll up our sleeves and begin the hard work of dealing with our problems as Americans, and as fellow human beings. 
Of course, our critics will imply that those of us who today reject divisive racial preferences and distinctions do so because we underestimate the social, economic, and discriminatory obstacles some Americans face. President Clinton, for example, told his audience in San Diego last week that `[t]he vast majority of [Californians who supported that state's Proposition 209] did it with a conviction that discrimination and isolation are no longer barriers to achievement.' But that is just plain wrong. 
To the contrary, last week in the Senate Judiciary Committee we heard from a panel of ordinary citizens who movingly told us of their experiences with discrimination in America. Among them was a Chinese-American mother from San Francisco, Charlene Loen, who told us how her young son Patrick was denied admission to an elite public magnet school, Lowell High School, because he is Chinese. The school district's efforts to ensure diversity among its students led it to employ a system of racial preference that had the effect of capping Chinese enrollment in many of its schools, forcing Chinese children to score much higher on entrance exams than children of other races. At virtually every public school Ms. Loen approached, she was first asked whether Patrick was Chinese, and when learning that he was, would inform Ms. Loen that Patrick need not apply. The Chinese quota was in effect full. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the promise of America. 
There should be no question that discrimination indeed continues to deny opportunities to too many Americans. At the Judiciary Committee's recent hearing we heard from black Americans, white Americans, Asian-Americans, and even a victim of an outrageous hate crime. But the question that we all must answer is whether one American's racial suffering should be valued above another's. It is a question that will only become more complicated and more urgent as our population grows ever more diverse. 
As we in the Judiciary Committee now know, when we prefer individuals of one race, we must by definition discriminate against individuals of another. But America's great social divide can never be crossed until we begin the work of building a bridge of racial reconciliation. By saying today, with the introduction of this act, that the Federal Government stands for the principle that racial discrimination in all its forms is wrong, we hope to take a small step forward on the path to healing the Nation's racial wounds by recognizing that every American is equal before the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the Utah Jazz, who just completed their most successful season in franchise history. After clinching the Western Conference Championship with a last-second, heart-stopping shot at the buzzer, they competed for the NBA title against the talented Chicago Bulls with grit and sheer determination. Throughout this season, our Utah Jazz have displayed tremendous skill, determination, strength, and character to forge ahead and accomplish what very few thought they could do. This team captured the hearts of basketball fans from coast to coast with their hard work, down-to-earth personalities, and belief in themselves. 
The Utah Jazz story has been filled with many years of strength building and even some challenges. In 1979, a struggling NBA basketball franchise pulled up its stakes and moved from New Orleans to what is the smallest market in the National Basketball Association, Salt Lake City, UT. The Jazz have built their program slowly but surely thanks to the big shoulders of some very good people. 
Jazz owner Larry H. Miller had the determination and the vision to know what it could mean for Utah to have its own NBA basketball team. Larry is more than an owner. His players are his family. His love and enthusiasm for his Utah Jazz team is infectious. Utah has been greatly rewarded through Larry's leadership and commitment. 
Former coach and current team president, Frank Laydenn has been the Utah Jazz' all-time best cheerleader. Frank has always believed in his team. He has won over many fans through his enthusiasm, humor, and love for the game. 
Coach Jerry Sloan is an example of leadership and fortitude. His motto to `never give up,' is evident in the guts and determination his players show on the basketball court. Jerry not only teaches his players good basketball skills, he also builds character. He has instilled his own hardwork ethic into every aspect of the Utah Jazz. 
John Stockton, the all-time NBA assist and steals leader, has displayed time and time again courage under pressure, and an absolute belief that `we could win.' The success he has enjoyed has not detracted from his thoughtful, unassuming manner. He is indeed a worthy role model for many young people today. 
And who else has displayed more utter conviction than league MVP, Karl Malone. Karl has provided the Utah Jazz with leadership and valor. Anyone who has followed the Utah Jazz knows how valuable Karl is to the team's overall scoring and rebounding capabilities. Aside from his on-court presence, Karl has been an outstanding ambassador for the NBA. His reputation of honesty and hard work has made him one of the greatest role models in professional sports. 
Not only am I proud of the Utah Jazz for winning the Western Conference Championship, I am even more proud of the high caliber of individuals that make up the Utah Jazz. Our team is willing to work hard, to believe in themselves, to reflect the values of the community in which they play, and to never give up. I am proud of the way they represent our State and its fans. 
I am sure that all Utahns would be happy to join with me in saying a big thank you to all of the players on the Jazz, as well as the coaches and management staff for all you have done for Utah--both on and off the court. The Utah Jazz united the people of our great State in a way that has not been equaled since Brigham Young led the covered wagons into the Salt Lake Valley. Citizens from all over our State, and from all walks of life, have united together behind one single entity--the Utah Jazz. This is an accomplishment all its own. The enthusiasm Utahns felt for their team was electric and awe-inspiring. Everyone who has ever felt like an underdog has embraced this team and gloried in its success. 
Mr. President, although we didn't bring home the ultimate trophy, our Utah Jazz gave us a season to remember. This team has done us all proud, and we are proud of them. So, here's thanks and best wishes to Karl, and John, Jeff, Greg, Bryon, Shandon, Howard, Greg, Antoine, Adams, Chris, Stephen, and Coach Sloan and his staff. And, as a word of warning to all the teams in the NBA--David slew plenty of Goliaths this year; watch out, we'll be back next year with a hand full of stones. 
Go, Jazz!  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise, along with Senator Bennett, to introduce the Dutch John Privatization Act. Dutch John, a city in Daggett County, UT, was established in 1958 by the Bureau of Reclamation to provide a community for the construction and operation of the Flaming Gorge Dam on the Green River. The dam was completed in 1964. 
This bill will remove the 2,400 acre township from Federal ownership by allowing for a buy-out of homes by existing lessees and permittees at fair market value and for a transition to local government ownership over 15 years. 
This legislation is the result of years of discussion among local, State, and Federal officials, including the Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Forest Service, and Daggett County. 
During the construction of Flaming Gorge Dam, the population of Dutch John reached more than 2,000 people. Today this remote town has approximately 175 persons. As small as it is, the Federal Government still pays about $1 million each year to run the city. As the landlord for Dutch John, the Federal Government must provide the water infrastructure, the sewer system, city roads, and various other public goods and services. 
Privatizing Dutch John would release the Federal Government from the burden of the operation and maintenance of this town. The current mandate and budget constraints of the Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S. Forest Service act as disincentives for the Federal Government to invest in Dutch John. 
This legislation will allow Federal agencies to retain control and ownership of facilities they have identified as needed for continued Government operation. Homes and properties not retained by the Federal Government will be sold at fair market value to current renters. Holders of federally issued permits and leases would have the right to purchase their underlying leased or permitted land at fair market value. All other properties will be transferred to Daggett County, and the revenues from these sales would be used for costs related to Dutch John. 
Under this bill, Daggett County will receive a $300,000 annual grant for the next 15 years as it takes over responsibility for the town's governance and infrastructure. During this transition period, Daggett County would be able to create a local tax base to fund future maintenance, sanitary, and public safety services. 
Currently, an environmental assessment is underway that will analyze the need for additional commercial recreation services for national recreation area and Ashley National Forest visitors. We will certainly review these recommendations carefully. 
Nevertheless, this legislation reflects the work of many individuals who have worked hard to create a viable plan for the future of Dutch John and that will allow residents to become self-governed. Self-governance, after all, is the cornerstone of our federal system, and Dutch John has been, for all intents and purposes, a Federal colony. 
We urge our colleagues to join us in supporting independence for Dutch John.    
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President on behalf of myself and Senators Baucus, Mack, and D'Amato, I rise today to introduce the Real Estate Investment Trust Tax Simplification Act of 1997. This legislation would simplify and reform the tax law concerning Real Estate Investment Trusts [REITs]. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House by Representative E. Clay Shaw, Jr. along with many of our House colleagues. 
REIT's were designed to allow small investors to invest in large real estate projects that they otherwise could not afford, including apartment buildings, office buildings, shopping centers, malls, warehouses, etc. Real Estate Investment Trusts have become a very popular form of investment as indicated by the fact that the market capitalization in the whole industry has risen from $9 billion in 1991 to over $100 billion today. 
Mr. President, if a REIT properly follows all of the rules, it is not normally taxed at the entity level, but passes through most items of income to the shareholders to report on their own individual tax returns. However, there are many minefields for the unwary that can inadvertently penalize investors and even the general public in some circumstances. This bill is designed to alleviate these complexities and uncertainties. 
Let me share with my colleagues an example of the difficulties facing small investors. Under the current rules, in order to gain the benefits of REIT taxation, the investment has to be passive in nature. Hence, the normal procedure is for the REIT to buy the underlying property and lease it out to tenants. However, the REIT must be careful not to provide directly to the tenants any services that are not customary in the real estate business. If this rule is violated, severe consequences can follow. For example, under a literal interpretation of the law, if a REIT that operates a retail mall provides wheelchairs to the customers of the retail tenants, or even assists the tenant in moving into its space, the entity's very status as a REIT could be placed in jeopardy. This is ridiculous and needs to be changed. 
Furthermore, current law imposes a tax on a REIT that retains capital gains and imposes a second level of tax on the REIT shareholders when they later receive the capital gain distribution. We need to make the changes necessary to help unsuspecting investors to avoid double taxation. This bill would adopt the corresponding mutual fund rules governing taxation of retained capital gains by passing through a credit to shareholders capital gains taxes paid at the corporate level. The bill would also conform a REIT's 95-percent annual distribution requirement to a mutual fund's 90-percent requirement. 
Mr. President, this bill also relaxes some of the current law's onerous penalties for failing to perform some recordkeeping requirements. Currently, a REIT could lose its favored tax 
status simply by failing to send out or receive back shareholder demand letters for the purpose of verifying the fact that no five or fewer parties own controlling interest in the REIT. So, even though the REIT in fact meets this test, Mr. President, simply by failing to have on file sufficient shareholder letters substantiating this fact, all of the REIT shareholders could face the extremely harsh penalty of REIT disqualification and double taxation. 
Rather than penalizing the REIT so severely for this oversight, Mr. President, this bill would impose a $25,000 penalty for failing to comply with this requirement, if the failure is inadvertent in nature. The penalty would rise to $50,000 in the case of willful noncompliance. I believe my colleagues would agree that this approach makes much more sense than the current rules. It serves as an adequate incentive to keep the appropriate records without causing the unsuspecting, innocent investors severe and unnecessary tax penalties. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970611</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, 30 years ago a singular, unexpected and startling event reshaped the world. I am referring to the conclusion of the Six-Day War of 1967, when the young Jewish state was faced with the amassed forces of the Arab world, bent on its destruction, but prevailed against all odds and concluded the short but bloody war with the victorious forces of Israel reclaiming and reuniting the holy city of Jerusalem. 
It was the first time since the fall of Jerusalem in 70 C.E. that the city was entirely in Jewish hands. One of the accounts of the first paratroopers and soldiers to reach the wall spoke of Gen. Shlomo Goren, then the chief rabbi of the Israeli Army, who raced to join the first to reach the wall. Last week's Jerusalem Post recounted that he was armed only with a Bible and a shofar, and that as they ran through the narrow streets of Old Jerusalem 
Goren did not stop blowing the shofar and reciting prayers. His enthusiasm infected the soldiers, and from every direction came cries of `Amen!' The paratroopers burst out in song. 
The Jewish author Abraham Joshua Heschel wrote movingly of this pivotal event: 
In its solitude the Wall was forced into the role of an unreachable tombstone for the nameless dead. Suddenly the Wall, tired of tears and lamentations, became homesick for song. `O Come, let us sing to the Lord, let us chant in joy to the rock of our salvation!' (Psalm 95:1) It will be called the Rejoicing Wall. 
It was the first time since the partition of Jerusalem that Jews could pray at the Western Wall. In fact, after the Israeli paratroopers and soldiers liberated the city, many flocked to the wall even before the mines left by the Jordanians had been removed. A few days later, the headline of the Jerusalem Post read: `200,000 at Western Wall in first pilgrimage since Dispersion'. 
Heschel wrote: 
July, 1967 * * * I have discovered a new land. Israel is not the same as before. There is great astonishment in the souls. It is as if the prophets had risen from their graves. Their words ring in a new way. Jerusalem is everywhere, she hovers over the whole country. There is a new radiance, a new awe. 
Mr. President, the conclusion of this war had profound geopolitical consequences--for the Mideast, and for the world, as the superpowers responded to the consequences of the defeat of the Arab armies. The Soviets increased their support to the Arab regimes intent on revenge, including the virulently anti-Israel governments of Saddam Hussein and Hafez Assad who came to power over the next couple of years. The United States, quick to recognize Israel's declaration of independence almost 20 years before, stood by our Democratic friend, as we would during the Yom Kippur War 6 years later, and as we have ever since. 
But there was consequences even more profound than the geopolitics. The city of David was in Jewish hands. Whereas the Jewish graves and synagogues had been desecrated since the partitioning in 1948, Israel opened the city to the faithful of the three monotheistic religions. The Muslim leaders retained control of al-Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock. Hundreds of thousands of Muslims and Christians have joined Jews since then in pilgrimages to holy Jerusalem. Jerusalem today is a city for all faithful. 
It is also, as so befits the sadness of this bloody 20th century, the center of unresolved political disputes. 
Mr. President, if you look back at the history of the 1967 war, you see that among the Israeli leadership, the possibility of exchanging land for a permanent peace was being considered within days after the Six-Day war. This was a radical notion in that part of the world--and the years it took before the Sinai was returned was a necessary period when facing hostile regimes on every border of a narrow state. But Israel has always demonstrated its willnessness--in fact, its insistence--on cohabiting in the region, and cooperating to do so--as long as its sovereignty and right to exist are recognized. These notions were at the heart of an unformulated peace process then as they are in a more formal peace process now. 
It is up to the democratically elected government of Israel to determine the direction and content of that process today, as it is up to Israel's Arab neighbors to accept the reality of the Jewish state. 
But one issue has been left more muddled than it should be: the status of Jerusalem. This issue has been debated on this floor for over a decade. I believe that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel, and I have joined many colleagues in expressing that it should be the policy of the United States to recognize Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel, and to cease the artificial posturing that has kept our Embassy in Tel Aviv. This is what we declared when we passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995, and what we reiterated in our recent resolution, Senate Concurrent Resolution 21, congratulating the residents of Jerusalem on the 30th anniversary of reunification. With these acts, Congress recognized a geopolitical reality. There are times when doing so can enhance the management of peace, by declaring, once and for all, what are the feasible parameters of a negotiated peace. These acts of Congress were such times. If the peace process continues, it will progress more certainly on solid ground. I continue to encourage the administration to join us in correcting a diplomatic anomaly that we have visited on our closest ally in the Middle East for too long. 
Mr. President, I offer my deepest congratulations to the residents of Jerusalem, to the citizens of Israel, and to all who appreciate the peace and openness that has reigned over that city since it was reunited 30 years ago. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970605</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill that would provide much-needed tax relief for American-owned companies that are attempting to compete in the world marketplace. I am joined by Senator Baucus in introducing the International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act. 
Mr. President, our country's economy has entered into an environment like no other in our history. The success of the American economy is becoming more and more intertwined with the success of our businesses in the global marketplace. As the economic boundaries from country to country merge closer together, and competition begins to arise from previously lesser-developed nations, it is imperative that American owned businesses be able to compete from the most advantageous position possible. 
There are already barriers the U.S. economy must overcome to remain competitive that Congress cannot hurdle by itself. I know that we have international trade negotiators working hard to eliminate those obstacles, such as barriers to foreign markets, but we can do more than just open barriers. We can reform our Tax Code in such a way that would ensure continued success by American-owned companies in today's highly competitive international market. There is no need to further impede the economy by saddling it with an outdated and extremely complex Tax Code. 
If we pass on this opportunity, Mr. President, we run the risk of jeopardizing the international competitiveness of the U.S. economy, as American companies are lured to other countries with simple, more favorable tax treatment. 
The business world is changing at a more rapid pace than any other time in history. Tax laws, unfortunately, have failed to keep pace with the rapid changes in the world economy. The last time the international provisions of the Internal Revenue Code were substantially debated and revised was in 1986. Since that time, existing economies have changed, and new economies have been created, all while our tax policy regarding this changing market has remained the same. And in several cases, our foreign competitors operate under simpler, fairer, and more logical tax regimes. The continued use of a confusing, archaic tax code results in a mismatch with commercial reality and creates a structural bias against the international activities of U.S. companies. We cannot, and should not, continue to impede the progress of our economy. 
Mr. President, the bill that I am introducing today seeks to simplify and correct various areas in the Internal Revenue Code that are unnecessarily restraining American businesses competing in today's global market. Some of these provisions are similar to those contained in the President's recently released simplification package. Some changes come in areas that are in dire need of repair, and others are changes that take into consideration international business operations that exist today, but were either nonexistent, or limited to domestic soil in 1986, when the tax reform laws were put into place. 
An important correction to current rules relates to Foreign Sales Corporation [FSC] treatment for software. When the current FSC rules were implemented 11 years ago, the level of software exports was nowhere near the level it is today. Because the Tax Code was not modified with the evolution of the high-technology business world, American software exports are currently discriminated against. This proposal would clarify that computer software qualifies as export property eligible for FSC benefits. These benefits are currently available for films, records, and tapes, but not software. 
The United States is currently the global leader in software production and development and employs nearly 400,000 people in high-paying software development and servicing jobs. The industry has experienced a great deal of growth in the past decade, primarily due to increased exports. If the FSC benefits to software continue to be denied, we are creating another obstacle to the competitiveness of American manufactured software, ultimately harming the U.S. economy, and putting American jobs at risk. 
Another important change included in the bill would repeal the 10/50 tax credit rules. Currently, the code requires U.S. companies to calculate separate foreign tax credit limitations for each of its foreign joint venture businesses in which the U.S. owner owns at least 10 percent but no more than 50 percent. In addition to creating administrative headaches for American owned companies that may have hundreds of such foreign joint venture operations, these rules impede the ability of U.S. companies to compete in foreign markets. 
It is necessary for businesses in the United States to operate in joint ventures worldwide, particularly in emerging, previously closed markets such as the former Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China. Many times, the joint ventures are needed to assist the United States investor to overcome significant local country and political obstacles involved with taking a controlling interest in foreign companies. This applies particularly to regulated businesses, such as telecommunications companies. While this type of joint venture is necessary for companies to enter and compete in foreign markets, the current tax law in our country discourages such operations. 
The bill would permit U.S. owners to compute foreign tax credits with respect to dividends from such entities based on the underlying character of the income of these entities, or the so-called look-through treatment, provided that the necessary information is available. Moreover, the bill includes a provision that would eliminate the overlap in the rules between passive foreign investment companies [PFIC] and controlled foreign companies [CFC]. PFIC rules were never intended to apply to CFC's. In the Tax Act of 1993, changes were made that created unnecessary duplication in PFIC and CFC rules. Currently, there are several CFC's that are caught under both sets of rules. This proposal would eliminate these duplications. If a PFIC is also a CFC, the proposal generally would treat the foreign corporation as a non-PFIC with respect to certain 10-percent U.S. shareholders of the CFC. 
Mr. President, I ask that my colleagues take a close look at this bill. This is not partisan legislation. It is an attempt to give fair tax treatment to American companies who operate abroad, and that, I think, is an objective we all support. The bill is truly a technical correction and simplification, designed to correct the inequities in our Tax Code, and to help place U.S. companies on a level playing field with their competitors in the foreign market. If we do not step up and make these corrections, American companies will lose ground to their foreign counterparts, eventually losing their power to operate successfully at home and harm our Nation's economic potential. American workers are the most creative, competitive, and hard-working in the world. It is our duty, Mr. President, to release them from any unnecessary constraints at home. Their hard work and perseverance will enable us to maintain and strengthen our lead in the global marketplace, resulting in more quality, high-paying jobs on American soil, and an even stronger national economy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970603</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970603</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to join in honoring a legend, a legend not just in the Senate but also throughout the United States of America. 
I have been privileged to serve with Senator Thurmond for 21 of the last nearly 42 years that he has represented the State of South Carolina as one of the premier U.S. Senators in this body. 
When I first arrived in January 1977, Senator Thurmond was my special mentor. As my senior on the Senate Judiciary Committee, he gave me my first lessons of the committee's processes. Ever since then, he has been a personal and very special friend to me. 
I have admired Senator Thurmond's strong commitment to federalism and his steadfast support of the prerogatives of both State and local governments. I have admired his toughness in the matters of criminal justice. I have admired his objectivity and fairness when it comes to matters concerning the judiciary. There can be no question that Senator Thurmond has left his mark on the Senate Judiciary Committee and the laws created by it. 
Nearly 42 years of distinguished service in the U.S. Senate would be a lifetime accomplishment for anybody--certainly for most people. But Senator Thurmond was just warming up when he arrived here for the first time in 1955. Before that he was county superintendent of schools, county attorney, circuit judge, D-day hero with the 82d Airborne, Governor of South Carolina, and Presidential candidate in 1948. 
The problem with using the word `legend' is that many times the exploits ascribed to a legendary figure are exaggerated or apocryphal. But it is entirely safe to say that Senator Thurmond is a legend. His accomplishments and contributions both for his beloved home State and his country are very well documented. And a lot of us are very familiar with them. 
I will never forget his trip to Utah in 1991 to keynote my Utah Seniors Conference. About 1,000 seniors from all over the State of Utah and the intermountain West gathered in Salt Lake City for a day of workshops and speakers on everything from retirement finances to travel bargains. Senator Thurmond is quite a role model. His enthusiasm for his work, his family, for his country, and for life itself was genuine and infectious. Our people in Utah were so impressed, that he gave them so much to live for, so much to strive for, so much to try to be, that I will never forget that appearance out there in Utah. 
We have been together on so many occasions and we have done so many things together that I think I am in a special position to say how much I care for this wonderful human being and how proud I am that he has reached this milestone in the U.S. Senate. I am not sure that it will ever be broken. 
Senator Thurmond is one who will leave a legacy not only of achievement but of honor and integrity to the Senate and the people of South Carolina. But, of course, it is premature to think that the latest milestone is the last milestone. I do not believe Strom Thurmond is finished yet. 
I have a lot of friends in the Senate, and I care for all of them. This is a wonderful body. It is a collegial body. It is an important body, the most important legislative body in the world today. But I have no greater friend than my good friend from South Carolina, Strom Thurmond. 
He has been my mentor. He has been my friend. He has been my supporter. He has been a person who has taken time to help me to know the ropes here. And he is a human being who you cannot help but respect. 
I am proud that he has not lost a step. This man is as effective today as when I got here in 1977, in fact, in some ways maybe even more effective because of the additional 21 years of experience that he has been able to accumulate. 
Senator Thurmond has been good to his staff. He is good to the people around the Senate. I have seen him shake hands with almost everybody who comes his way. He takes time with young people, children, older people, whoever. He stops and says hello and always has a cheery salutation for people as he serves in the Senate. 
I also know that there is nobody in the Senate who knows more about his State and the people therein than Strom Thurmond. I have seen him make phone calls to his State. I have seen him worry about funerals, about deaths, about graduations, about education, about so many things that really have been important for people in his State. I think it is probably true that he has basically touched the lives and the hearts of virtually everybody in the State of South Carolina. But it is also true that he has touched the hearts of many of us throughout the rest of the country. 
And I for one am a better person because of my relationship and the friendship and brotherhood that I have with Strom Thurmond of South Carolina. 
He is a great man. He is a legend. And I believe that he is going to make these next number of years the most important 
years of his life. And if anybody can do it, it is my buddy, my friend, my mentor, Strom Thurmond. 
So I would have felt badly if I had not gotten over here and at least said a few of the things that are on my mind. I could go on for hours. But this is a great man, one of the greatest that has ever lived in this country. He is a great patriot, somebody who really loves this country and has given blood for it. 
I want you to know, Senator Thurmond, I appreciate you. And I know I am not supposed to refer to you in the first person on the floor, but I am going to today. I appreciate you and appreciate the kindness and the friendship you have shown me all these years. And we are going to be friends forevermore. So I am grateful to you and I am happy to see you achieve this honor. And I wish you many, many more years in the U.S. Senate. And I know that as long as you will be here, that you will give it everything you have. 
Thank you, Mr. President. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, during the debate on ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention, I said that I expected that both the President and the Congress must be wholly dedicated to implement this treaty in a way that advances U.S. national security interests and that protects the constitutional rights of American citizens. Today, we will consider a bill to implement the Chemical Weapons Convention. In my view, this bill accomplishes both of those objectives. 
The bill before us today is the product of negotiation with the administration and with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Although this bill differs, in several respects, from the version of S. 610 that was introduced in the Congress, I believe that we have achieved a bill that comprehensively implements the treaty, while also protecting the constitutional rights of Americans. Let me explain briefly why that is true: 
First, our bill provides for civil liability of the United States for the loss of property resulting from inspection procedures under the treaty. 
Second, the Chemical Weapons Convention authorizes a team of international officials to inspect the facilities of private American businesses. Our bill protects the constitutional rights of American citizens through the warrant requirement that must be satisfied for all inspections. 
Third, the bill protects confidential business information that, according to the treaty, must be reported to the U.S. National Authority. The bill also provides aggressive penalties for the person disclosing the information, as well as for those benefiting from the information. 
In sum, the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1997 is a reasonable effort to protect the constitutional rights of our citizens against unlawful inspections under the treaty. 
We have worked exceedingly hard with the Administration and with Members on the other side of the aisle to craft this bill. In particular, I want to thank Senators Lugar, Kyl, Leahy, and Biden, as well as their staff, for their tremendous efforts in this regard, done under serious time constraints. I want to thank, in particular, David Stephens, Randy Schueneman, Marshall Billingslea, Ken Meyers, Beryl Howell, Ed Levine, David Schanzer, Stephen Schlesinger, Jennifer Carrico, and Paul Larkin. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I also would like to take this occasion to thank Senators Helms, Lugar, Kyl, Leahy, and Biden for their work on the Chemical Weapons Convention. I think that went very well. We put it out through the Judiciary Committee yesterday, and we passed it here today. So I am very proud of that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I wish to take just a few minutes on judges, because I want to make two basically important points on judges. 
At the outset, first, the current vacancy levels are not the product of some alleged Republican stall on judges. 
Second, the Senate's constitutional advise-and-consent responsibility should not be reduced to a mere numbers game. 
At the end of the last session, we had 65 judge vacancies. Last year, we had 21 judges nominated. We put through 17. We would have put through four more except for Democratic objections to their own judges--not to the judges, but to putting them forward, because one Democrat was not getting the judges that he wanted. 
Let me just elaborate for a minute or two on those two points. 
Mr. President, this is not a numbers game. Let me make an important point, which is this. Federal judges should not be confirmed as part of a numbers game or to reduce the vacancy rate to a particular level. 
While I plan to oversee a fair and principled confirmation process, as I always have, I want to emphasize that the primary criteria in this process is not how many vacancies need to be filled, but whether President Clinton's, or whoever the President is, whether their nominees are qualified to serve on the bench and will not, upon receiving their judicial commission, spend a lifetime, a career, rendering politically motivated activist decisions. 
The Senate has an obligation to the American people to thoroughly review the records of all nominees it receives to ensure that they are capable and qualified to serve as Federal judges. These are lifetime appointments with lifetime full benefits after they retire. Frankly, the record of activism demonstrated by so many of the Clinton judges and nominees calls for more vigilance in reviewing these nominees. 
The current vacancies are not the result of a Republican stall. I think that is another point that has been widely distorted in recent weeks. The argument is that the Republicans are somehow stalling these judges. The facts show rather clearly that the current vacancies are not the result of Republican stall tactics. 
First of all, at the end of the last Congress there were 65 vacancies. Today there are 100, 74 of which have not even had a recommended nominee. I have been here a long time, but I have never heard we had to confirm people who were not even nominated. 
There are 26; and we now have put through 5. We have four more that we put out of the committee yesterday, who I believe will go through quite soon. And we will have another markup of judges perhaps a week after we get back. 
Let me just make this point so that we can resolve some of these problems. 
These vacancies were caused by a record level of resignations in the past few months. 
During President Clinton's first 4 years, we confirmed 202 judges. That is a near record high and nearly one-quarter of the entire Federal bench. 
By the close of last Congress, there were only 65 vacancies. This is virtually identical to the number of vacancies under the Democratic chairman in the previous Congress. The Department of Justice itself stated that this level of vacancies represents virtual full employment in the Federal courts. So last Congress we were more than fair to President Clinton in his judicial nominees. We reduced the vacancy level to the level which the Justice Department itself considers virtual full employment. 
But since the election last fall, 35 judges have either resigned or taken senior status. That is a dramatic number in such a short period, which has led to the current level of 100 vacancies. 
Now, current vacancy rates are not an unprecedented crisis. Let me just point that out by saying there has only been a 5 percent increase in the vacancy rate. Keep in mind that 63 vacancies, a vacancy rate just over 7 percent, is considered virtual full employment, and 100 vacancies is a vacancy rate just over 12 percent. How can a 5 percent rise in the vacancy rate convert `full employment' into a `crisis.' 
The Democratic Senate left a much higher vacancy rate under President Bush. But compare today's 100 vacancies to that under a Democratic Senate during President Bush's Presidency. 
In May 1991--the same time we are at right now--there were 148 vacancies. That is during President Bush's tenure. In May of 1992, again in President Bush's tenure, there were 117 vacancies. So that 148 and 117, respectively, is more than we have right now. 
Now, I find it interesting that at that time I do not recall reading a single article or watching a single interview on judicial vacancies. So, in short, I think it is quite unfair and, frankly, inaccurate to report that the Republican Congress has created a vacancy crisis in the courts. 
Now, I might add that judicial emergencies simply mean that the seat has been unfilled for a certain period of time. In reality, though, many of them are far from emergencies. Indeed, of the 24 alleged judicial emergencies, the administration has not even put up a nominee for 11 of those seats. How do you blame the Congress for that? As for the others, I think you will find a number of the relevant districts do not, in fact, have an overburdensome caseload, and, in fact, some of the senior judges are suggesting that we reexamine the number of judges in their area and reduce them because they do not need them. It costs at least $1 million a year for every judge in this country, and there are well over 800. 
All of this being said, I feel very strongly we must do our best to reduce the vacancies in the Federal courts. Frankly, there are limits to what we can do, especially with what the administration has done so far. The fact of the matter is that, excluding two brand new nominees whose paperwork we have not yet received and cannot process because we have not yet received it, there are only 26 nominees for these 100 vacancies, meaning 74 vacancies are without nominees. Of these 26, 8 have already had hearings and are either on the Senate floor or about to be reported out of committee. So we are moving on nominees, and we will continue to move. 
The problem, however, is that many of the remaining 18 nominees who have not yet had committee action are in one way or another problematic or controversial. All but a few of them were carried over from the last Congress, and I can assure you that there is a reason why the Senate confirmed 202 other nominees but not them. If and when the administration sends us qualified, noncontroversial nominees, they will be processed fairly and promptly, and I am trying to process these controversial nominees to the extent that we can and certainly am trying to do so fairly and promptly. 
Take Mr. Alan Gold from Florida, for example. He was nominated in February of this year. We completed his paperwork and review in March and April. He had a hearing 2 weeks ago and was reported out of the committee yesterday, just to give an illustration. 
When the administration sends us problematic nominees, it takes much more time and it is much more difficult to process them, and the administration knows this. I think my colleagues on the other side know this. If all we are left with are judges whom we are not ready to move, I will not compromise our advise-and-consent constitutional function, I will not compromise it simply because the White House has not sent up qualified nominees. As I said at the outset, the Senate's advise-and-consent function should not be reduced to a mere numbers game. The confirmation of an individual to serve for life as a Federal judge is a very serious matter and it should be treated as such. 
Now, we have had a lot of complaining and yelling and screaming about this, but to be honest with you, we are much better than a number of prior Congresses where Democrats had control of the Judiciary Committee and when they had control of the floor as well. President Clinton has not been mistreated. He has not been treated unfairly, and his nominees have not been mistreated or treated unfairly. In fact, we have yet to have a nominee who has been rejected on the floor during the Clinton administration, although I felt that at least two of them should have been.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me say that the Senator from Vermont is a dear friend of mine. There is no question about that. We enjoy working together. 
But I think the points that I have made are very valid points. The administration has taken up to 618 days to name each nominee. That is really twice the time that historically it has taken in prior administrations in the White House. At an average of 618 days for each vacancy President Clinton has taken to fill, according to my calculations--I could be wrong--but it would take more than 125 years to fill all 74 vacancies. 
So, you can play this numbers game. All I am saying is I dedicate myself to try to do the best I can to get these judges through. I appreciate the help my colleague gives me in that regard. I think, as we get more of these nominees up here, we will get more of them to the floor. 
But I appreciate his remarks. I just do not quite agree with them, that is all. 
With that, I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased today to once again introduce the Omnibus Property Rights Act. Many Members of the Senate have as a paramount concern the protection of individual rights protected by our Constitution. 
One particular right--the right to own and use private property free from arbitrary governmental action--is increasingly under attack from the regulatory state. Indeed, despite the constitutional requirement for the protection of property rights, the America of the late 20th century has witnessed an explosion of Federal regulation that has jeopardized the private ownership of property with the consequent loss of individual liberty. 
Under current Federal regulations, thousands of Americans have been denied the right to the quiet use and enjoyment of their private property. Arbitrary bureaucratic enforcement of Federal and State regulatory programs has prevented Americans from building homes and commercial buildings, plowing fields, repairing barns and fences, clearing brush and fire hazards, felling trees, and even removing refuse and pollutants, all on private property. 
Fairness and simple justice demand that Americans owning property be entitled to the full use of their property. Ensuring compensation for regulatory takings is the first step toward restoring the fundamental right to own and use private property guaranteed by the takings clause of the fifth amendment to our Constitution. That is why I am once again introducing legislation--the Omnibus Property Rights Act--to protect private property owners from overzealous regulators. This bill, similar in substance and procedure to the bills I introduced last Congress, represents the most comprehensive legislative mechanism to date to foster and protect the private ownership of property. 
The omnibus bill contains three different approaches contained in different titles. 
The first substantive title of the bill encompasses property rights litigation reform. This title establishes a distinct Federal fifth amendment `takings' claim against Federal agencies by aggrieved property owners, thus clarifying the sometimes incoherent and contradictory constitutional property rights case law. Property protected under this section includes real property, including fixtures on land, such as crops and timber, mining interests, and water rights. This title is triggered when a taking, as defined by the Supreme Court, occurs. Moreover, it allows for compensation when the property, or `affected portion' of property, is reduced in value by 33 percent or more. 
It has been alleged that this bill would impede government's ability to protect public 
health, safety, and the environment. This is not true. This first title contains a `nuisance exception' to compensation. It codifies that part of the 1992 Supreme Court decision in Lucas versus South Carolina Coastal Council, which held that restrictions on property use based on `background principles of the state's law of property and nuisance' need not be compensated. Thus, by adopting the Supreme Court's recent Lucas holding, the Omnibus Property Rights Act provides that only innocent property holders are to be compensated for government takings. Those that demonstrably misuse their property to pollute or to harm public health and safety are not entitled to compensation under the bill's nuisance provision. 
Finally, this title also resolves the jurisdictional dispute between the Federal district courts and the Court of Federal Claims over fifth amendment `takings' cases--sometimes called the Tucker Act shuffle--by granting each court concurrent jurisdiction. 
A second title in essence codifies President Reagan's Executive Order 12630. Under this title, a Federal agency must conduct a private property taking impact analysis before issuing or promulgating any policy, regulation, or related agency action which is likely to result in a taking of private property. 
A third title provides for alternative dispute resolution in arbitration proceedings. 
The three titles of the Omnibus Property Rights Act together function to provide the property owner with mechanisms to vindicate the fundamental constitutional right of private ownership of property, while instituting powerful internal incentives for Federal agencies both to protect private property and include such protection in agency planning and regulating. 
It is very significant that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, after a year of research, concluded in a study dated March 8, 1996, that the incentives built into the very similar bills I introduced last Congress would have encouraged agencies to act more responsibly, that the administrative cost of the bill would be quite small, and that compensation costs would be even smaller. 
Despite some critics' charges that these very similar bills would be too costly, CBO found that the costs of both the omnibus bills will diminish to an insignificant level over time. This is predicated on the CBO finding that each of the omnibus bills contain powerful incentives, which over time will reduce costs. These include: First, the bills' bright line legal standards, which better enable agencies to avoid takings disputes; second, the takings impact assessment requirement, which requires agencies to analyze the affect of proposed regulations on property rights; and third, the requirement that compensation be paid from the agency's budget, which inevitably will act as a deterrent to unconstitutional and unlawful takings. Based on extensive research, CBO estimated that each omnibus bill should cost no more than $30 or $40 million a year for the first 5 years of implementation, thereafter diminishing to insignificant amounts. The new bill will cost even less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the time on this amendment be allocated to me as the prime sponsor of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. On the Senator's time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be glad to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It is basically geared to get us to that point. Yes. 
Mr. HATCH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This is not the Kennedy amendment. This is the Hatch-Kennedy amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand that. 
Mr. HATCH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I sent this amendment to the desk on behalf of myself and Senator Kennedy. This is well known as the Hatch-Kennedy amendment. I think everyone in the Senate ought to know that. It is an amendment that we have worked out over a 6-month period, or longer, and one that I think deserves consideration in every sense of that term. 
The amendment that Senator Kennedy and I offer today addresses what I consider to be a top priority of this Congress: making sure America's kids are healthy. 
The Hatch-Kennedy amendment calls for an increase in the tobacco excise tax to fund additional spending for children's health insurance. 
We have made enactment of a bipartisan children's health insurance bill a top priority this Congress, and plan to press forward at every opportunity if the Senate does not act in a responsible manner. 
This amendment is the right thing to do, and I urge its adoption. 
Specifically, our amendment would raise $30 billion in revenues through a 43-cent tobacco excise tax increase. 
Twenty billion dollars will be used for services to uninsured kids, and $10 billion for deficit reduction. 
We intend that the money be used for the same purposes as those outlined in the bipartisan budget agreement; that is, for Medicaid and for a mandatory capped State grant program to finance health insurance for uninsured children. 
Under our amendment, $18 billion in program funding will go to the Labor Committee, and $2 billion to the Finance Committee, to be added to the $16 billion already in the budget resolution. That means each committee will get $18 billion to work on complementary programs to help the poor and near poor. 
To pass this amendment--and this is an uphill battle we face--we need to have the will to do two things. 
First, we must recognize that we need to help children from America's working families, as well as the poorest of the poor. 
About 88 percent of uninsured children come from families where at least one parent is employed. 
Don't forget that. Eighty-eight percent of these kids live in a family where one parent works, at least. 
The majority of these kids will not be addressed by any Medicaid bill. 
Second, in order to help these forgotten children, we need to have the courage to take on some very powerful special interests. 
When we started this fight I knew that Big Tobacco would not just roll over and play dead. And they have not disappointed me. 
If we demonstrate one thing by this vote today let it be this: we are sending a message today that Senator Kennedy and I and the other supporters of this bill will stand up for children and against Big Tobacco. 
Senators, who do you stand with? Joe Camel, or Joey? That is what it comes down to. 
What the Senate must do today is decide whether we are going to protect Joe Camel, or whether we are going to protect Joey. 
Let our votes today be the answer. 
Now I am certain that those speaking in opposition to our amendment will offer a lot of complicated reasons why our amendment is deficient. 
But as they talk, ask yourself who should be protected: Joey or Joe Camel? 
Sometimes the logic of something is just so simple that no amount of obfuscation, legal mumbo-jumbo, technical economic jargon, and procedural objections can fool the American public. 
I expect that some will come to the floor today and say that this budget resolution is the wrong time and place for this legislation. 
One of their objections will be that the bill includes $10 billion in deficit reduction. Some will argue that this is not needed in a balanced budget document. 
Those who make that argument simply do not take into account the fact that the interest payments on the accumulated annual deficits--the $6 trillion national debt--now consume 15% of annual Federal spending. This is as much as we spend for our national defense. 
Having managed the floor debate for the balanced budget amendment that fell 1 vote short of the 67 necessary votes, I have a special place in my heart for the `LD' part of the CHILD bill: lowering the deficit. 
Once again, think of Joe Camel and Joey. 
Frankly, as a conservative Republican I am proud to have convinced so many Democrats to cosponsor legislation that provides $1 for deficit reduction for every $2 devoted to program costs. If this model is adopted in other areas, not only will we more quickly reach the goal of a balanced budget, but we will also be better able to face the formidable challenges of entitlement reform and financing the national debt. 
Our amendment has two very basic and extremely important goals. 
The Hatch-Kennedy healthy kids amendment benefits American families, working families so that they can get health care. The healthy kids amendment helps reduce the deficit and reduce our debt service requirements. 
Our amendment will help millions of kids get a healthy start in life. As it stands now, we know that too many American children do not get the benefits of health insurance. 
The General Accounting Office recently made a number of important observations about this problem. In House testimony, the GAO said:  
In summary, we have found that while most children have health insurance, almost 10 million children lack insurance. Between 1989 and 1995, the percentage of children with private coverage declined significantly--part of an overall decline in coverage of dependents through family health insurance policies. 
The GAO concluded: 
Had this decrease not occurred, nearly 5 million more children would have had private health insurance. 
From these observations of GAO, I think it is fair to say that there is a big problem in the area of children's health insurance, and unless we do something about it, it is bound to get bigger. 
Who are these 10 million children? These uninsured kids come from working families. At least 88 percent of those kids come from families where at least one parent is working. Many live in families whose income is just above the Medicaid limit, but they do not make enough money to provide health insurance for their kids. 
Who are the Hatch-Kennedy kids? I will tell you who they are. They are, in large part, the children of good, hard-working families who make too much for Medicaid and not enough to buy their own health insurance. 
This chart shows you that there is a pronounced spike in the number of uninsured Americans who live in that $20,000 to $30,000 working-class income bracket. This is the family income range of many of these families who stand to benefit from the Hatch-Kennedy amendment. 
It is clear to this Senator that there is a problem to be solved. These are uninsured Americans. 
Some are saying we do not need this amendment. The budget negotiators did a good job, in my opinion, in including a significant amount of new spending for children's health--$16 billion in this budget resolution. That is a good start, and I praised them for it. No question about it. But the fact is there are about 10 million kids in the United States without health insurance, and I believe that the budget resolution probably will not cover even half of them. 
I think it is important that my colleagues understand the Congressional Budget Office is coming in with very conservative estimates on the number of children who will be served under various congressional proposals. For example, the CBO, Congressional Budget Office, has estimated that the Medicaid 12-month, continuous eligibility proposal would cost $14 billion alone if implemented by every State. That alone is almost all of the money in this budget resolution. Or, if you look at it another way, the Federal share of Medicaid costs for a child is about $860 on average this year. According to the Employee Benefit Research Institute, there are 4.7 million uninsured children whose parents make less than 125 percent of the Federal poverty level. That is $19,500 for a family of four. 
How can they afford insurance? By simple calculation, to cover those kids under Medicaid would cost $4.2 billion, about $1 billion more a year than is included in this budget resolution, and that is just the Medicaid kids. There are 7 million here who are not. And this would leave the vast majority of children of working parents under 125 percent of poverty level uncovered. 
While I admit $16 billion is a substantial start and I commend my colleagues on the Budget Committee, it is just not enough to do the whole job. 
Many of us are also cosponsors of the Chafee-Rockefeller-Jeffords-Breaux CHIPS bill, which is estimated to cost at least $15 billion, perhaps even more. This Medicaid bill is targeted to help 5 million kids, including the 3 million or so Medicaid-eligible children who are not enrolled because they do not know enough to get enrolled. 
We see these two bills as compatible. The CHIPS bill improves basic Medicaid, and our bill would be added on top of that to take care of these uninsured kids who do not qualify. There obviously is a close connection between the two. That is why in our amendment we decided to divide the money equally between each of the two committees, Labor and Finance, and to work out an integrated approach. 
Let me also take a few minutes to explain my views about using a tobacco tax as the revenue source for our amendment. There can be no doubt that smoking and tobacco use are major public health problems. By any measure they are costly. 
Smoking is our Nation's No. 1 preventable health cause of death. There are about 48 million Americans who smoke. About 2 
million Americans use other tobacco products like chewing tobacco. There are 3 million kids who smoke. 
Consider these smoking facts. Smoking causes cancer and is addictive. One out of five cancers is caused by smoking; four out of five lung cancers are caused by smoking; 3,000 kids are starting to smoke every day; 50 percent of all smokers begin before age 15, 90 percent before the age 18; 419,000 American smokers die annually. Just think about it. Of those 3,000 young Americans who start smoking every day, at least half of them are going to become nicotine addicts. 
Tobacco accounts for more deaths than homicide, car and airplane accidents, alcohol, heroin, crack and AIDS combined. In fact, cigarettes are a major cause of fire fatalities in the United States. In 1990, cigarettes were responsible for about one-quarter of all deaths associated with residential fires. This represented over 1,000 deaths in our society. 
Every day nearly 3,000 young Americans become regular smokers. Eventually, 1,000 will die early from tobacco-related diseases. Unfortunately, cigarette smoking is on the rise among the young. About 8 in 10 smokers begin to use tobacco before age 18 and about one-half of all smokers started at age 14 or earlier. 
According to a 1994 CDC report, tobacco costs our society $100 billion annually--$50 billion in direct medical costs. Of 24 billion cigarette packs sold in 1993, $2.06 per pack in medical care costs. Of this, 89 cents was paid by public sources; $10 billion Medicare, $5 billion Medicaid, $4.75 billion other Federal, and $16.75 billion higher insurance premiums. Just think about that. 
The price of cigarettes devoted toward taxes has slipped over the last three decades and, even with the increase we propose today, will actually be lower proportionately once this bill is enacted than it was in 1964 when Surgeon General Luther Terry reported for the first time that smoking causes cancer. 
As a conservative, I am generally opposed to tax increases. I firmly believe that the Federal Government should spend less and that the American people should keep more of their money that they earn in our economy. Yet the statistics about tobacco use and costs that I cited above, I believe, make the case that tobacco products are imposing external costs onto society that are not adequately reflected in the price of these inherently dangerous products. Simply stated, the producers and consumers of tobacco products are not paying for the full costs of this product. 
When I balance the opportunity that we have in terms of helping to provide health insurance and services for children, coupled with the significant deficit reduction component against my natural aversion to raising taxes, I come down in favor of this financing mechanism with the tobacco tax or, as I call it, a user fee because only those who smoke are going to pay this tax. And 50 percent of them, according to the recent polls, are for this tax realizing that smoking causes a lot of detriment to society. 
If we are going to commit ourselves to addressing the problem of adequate health care for children, then it is essential that we identify how this program is going to be funded. 
I knew I was going to take the heat on this one, but I strongly believed that it was the fiscally responsible thing to do, and I still think this is the case. 
Accordingly, let me pose to my colleagues this question. What do you believe is a better offset? From what program do you suggest we take the money? Now, I am willing to listen and discuss this issue but, quite frankly, I have not heard from anybody concerning a viable alternative financing source. 
Let us get to the real issue here. Smoking is dangerous for our public health, and it is dangerous for our economy. It hurts the kids we are trying to help. That is the crux of our amendment here today. 
Many of the critics of our proposal have seized on this amendment today to express concerns which were raised earlier about the Child Health Insurance and Lower Deficit Act. A lot of those charges against the bill are in error, as I am prepared to debate here today. But the fundamental question today is not should we pass the Hatch-Kennedy child bill. Rather, the more pertinent question before the body is should we do more for children's health? 
The answer, totally clear to this Senator, is `most definitely.' I consider children's health to be a top priority issue for this Congress. I think the American people expect that of us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, 72 percent of all adults responded that they favor this proposal and only 24 percent were opposed; 67 percent of all men approved of this proposal and 76 percent of all women were in favor. The results were remarkably consistent throughout each geographic region in the United States, across age groups and, indeed, income groups. 
The point is simple. This is an idea whose time has come. So to those who believe there is a better way to go, I earnestly solicit your views. Indeed, I will make an offer to every Member in this body. I want to work with each of you and with our leadership to address this issue in a responsible way. If changes need to be made, if we need to move toward a middle ground in order to get a proposal enacted, I will be an advocate for these changes. It is for this reason that Senator Kennedy and I initiated our discussions on this issue several months ago. 
The fact is that Senator Kennedy and I approach issues like these from vastly different ends of the political spectrum. That perhaps is what strengthens the product of our discussions on those issues, the fact that we can find common ground. I believe we desperately need to find that bipartisan common ground on an issue like child health insurance, an issue which matters to so many of all of our constituents. 
I think one of the lessons we have learned in the last 18 months is that the American public believes Congress is unnecessarily politicizing issues and sandbagging legislation in areas which beg for action. Children's health is an obvious example. I caution my colleagues not to be ashamed to work in a bipartisan manner. Working across the aisle and knitting together political coalitions in order to get things done is an element of leadership, and I think it is what the public expects of all of us. I think that our approach is a true bipartisan partnership. Public health leaders back this approach. 
Six former Cabinet Secretaries of HHS or its predecessor, HEW, representing all Presidential administrations back to the Nixon administration support our amendment. I thank Secretaries Elliot Richardson, David Mathews, Joseph Califano, Richard Schweiker, Otis Bowen, and Louis Sullivan for their support and leadership in moving this legislation. 
I also want my colleagues to know that former Surgeons General C. Everett Koop, Julius Richmond, Paul Erlich, and Jesse Steinfield are backing this effort. 
Today is the time for we politicians to take the advice of these leaders in public health and vote to increase the tax on tobacco users in order to help children. Indeed, the budget compromise and the child bill plus the public's heightened sense of concern about the perils of tobacco are coming together to present a rare and historic opportunity for our society to help children get health insurance, further discourage tobacco use, especially among our young people, and target a sizable $10 billion for deficit reduction. 
This is a unique time, and we should make the most of it. I believe that we can and should strengthen Medicaid and create a new program for those children from working families who are not Medicaid eligible. That is what our amendment is intended to do. 
I will not use up all our time. Let us just keep this simple. Vote for Joey, not for Joe Camel. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I understand well the procedural objections of the distinguished Senator from New Mexico to this amendment. He argues that there is no way to be absolutely certain that the Finance Committee will levy a tobacco tax. In a narrow legal sense that is certainly true. Well, to that assertion I simply respond that this is not some hinky-dinky little technical amendment. Everybody here knows what is involved here. 
We are having one of the most important debates in this Congress. It may be the most important debate that occurs during this session of Congress. We are debating in public. We all know what the stakes are. It is our children versus Joe Camel, nobody doubts that, nobody has any problem with that. In fact, even in the purpose clause of the amendment, it says financed by an increase in the tobacco tax. So it is there. Make no mistake about it, the question is clear today. History can be made today if our amendment is agreed to. 
The Finance Committee would have no practical other choice but to pass the cigarette tax to finance this. Of course, there is no legal requirement to bind their actions but sometimes political and moral forces cannot be resisted by mere legal technicalities. 
If we prevail today, there is no political way to turn back. That is why so many people are so nervous today. This vote may be the most important vote we cast this year for the future of our children. Let us face it. The people out there are watching. And they are going to hold us accountable, especially those 72 percent of the public, according to the Wall Street Journal-NBC poll who support our bipartisan approach. It is Joey versus Joe Camel, and no procedural nicety can obscure this reality. And everybody here knows it. So that is what it is coming down to. 
There are $135 billion in total tax cuts, gross tax cuts in this budget agreement. And the fact is, that this is a public health vote much more than a tax vote. Tobacco is the No. 1 cause of premature death in this country. And that is costing our country literally tens of billions of dollars annually by our own Government estimates. 
GAO is the one who has given us the figure of 10 million children here who do not have adequate health insurance, 3 million of whom do not even know they qualify for Medicaid. This money in this bill will help those 3 million children, perhaps. But I have to say, in order to get to $16 billion they had to cut the DISH. That is going to be a loss to children. So we are talking about taking care of the other 7 million children that are involved according to the GAO. 
My amendment does direct the Finance Committee to come up with $30 billion more in revenues. We want this to be done with the tobacco tax increase; and it is the only way it will be done. That is the only way you can adjust the budget to accommodate a tobacco tax increase. If the Finance Committee refuses to back the tax, then it will be they, not us, who have 
thwarted the will of 72 percent of the American people who support this amendment. 
I would like to point out nothing in the bill binds any committee to adopt any policy. Many committees may consider changes we have not anticipated here today. We have to do the best by providing clear direction on the floor. And if that guidance is not followed we will have to deal with that with subsequent reconciliation and tax bills. 
So this charge ignores the real issue. The proponents of our amendment, the Hatch-Kennedy amendment, are making a public choice to help kids at the expense of the tobacco industry. You can try to gild the lily any way you want, but that is the situation here. Big tobacco is fighting back. Who are we going to be with? Are we going to be with the kids or are we going to be with tobacco? That is strictly the issue. 
I reserve the balance of my time. 
Mr. KERRY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time does the Senator want? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts, and also the vice chairman of the Budget Committee. 
I was very interested listening to the Senator from New Hampshire, his journey from 10.5 million unfunded children, down to the 3.2 million he says are truly uninsured. First off, the Senator says that 3.7 million are Medicaid eligible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am speaking on Senator Kennedy's time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. First of all he says he's down to 3.2 million 
that he says they are truly uninsured. First off, the Senator says the 3.7 million are Medicaid eligible. That's what he said. But here is what the CBO said: 10.5 million uninsured kids, 3 million Medicaid--let me just read it right out of there. Here is what the CBO says:  
According to widely quoted estimates, about 10.5 million children through the age of 18, or 14 percent, are uninsured. At least 3 million of them are thought to be eligible for Medicaid. 
That is the CBO. That is what we rely upon around here. So my friend from New Hampshire is using numbers somewhat different from the CBO. I still do not understand how anyone can seriously believe that $16 billion is adequate to take care of 10.5 million uninsured kids. I will go into that for just a minute, but let me just say this. 
First of all, the amendment we filed is not a bill, it is strictly numbers. A bill will have to be formed from it. The question is whether we should fund beyond the $16 billion provided for in this bill--which I praise, but which is totally inadequate to do what many of us in this body would like to do, including many on this side. Over time, I think that will be the case. 
Let me just make this case. By the way, talking about mandates, that is not part of our amendment. It was not part of our bill either. I might add, it is pretty tough to call a block grant to the States with the States setting eligibility standards a great big bunch of new Federal bureaucratic Lyndon Johnson type things. We fought very hard to get to a block grant status. 
I remember the same type of arguments I went through on child care a number of years ago, until it passed unanimously on the floor here. The reason it did is because it was right and it did what was right. And our goals here are right. And they do what is right. And it is time for people to wake up and pay attention and do something about these problems. 
Let me just talk about the Medicaid cuts in the budget. It makes sense that the $16 billion children's health initiative in the budget will be put back into the lowest income children. I commend the Budget Committee for that, 
particularly those eligible for Medicaid, since the budget agreement cuts $14 billion out of Medicaid. 
Much of the $14 billion is expected to come from cuts to the disproportionate share of hospital payments, or DISH, which are funds to States to reimburse those hospitals which serve a disproportionate share of Medicaid and other low-income patients. 
So the loss to children, where they have taken from DISH to get $16 billion, is somewhere between $7 billion to $10 billion. So it is not a full $16 billion. We are robbing Peter to pay Paul. That may be justified. I still commend the Budget Committee for trying to do something here, but it certainly does not cover the problems that some are saying it covers. 
These cuts are taking away money that the States currently have to ensure that children, the elderly and the disabled are cared for in the hospitals. Reducing these funds, as I have mentioned, will likely hurt children if additional funding is not put back into the Medicaid Program to care for these children. 
Without the additional funding in the Medicaid Program, States will be forced, or may be forced, to cut back on services to children, and I estimate that to be $7 billion to $10 billion. It may be more. 
The Budget Committee made a good start by allotting $3.2 billion a year over the next 5 years to the Finance Committee to cover children's health, to cover those eligible for Medicaid and to strengthen Medicaid. Let's be realistic what the $3.2 billion a year can and cannot do. 
I think it is important my colleagues understand the Congressional Budget Office is coming in with very conservative estimates on the number of children who will be served under various congressional proposals. For example, CBO estimated the Medicaid 12-month, continuous eligibility proposal will cost $14 billion if implemented by every State. That alone is almost all of the money in the budget resolution. CBO has also told us they estimate the cost for a child-only insurance policy to be somewhere between $1,000 and $1,200 a year. If true, the average $3.2 billion a year in the budget would only cover about 3 million kids, far short of the 5 million targeted in the resolution and still 5 million short of those who need to be taken care of. 
Or, if you look at it another way, the Federal share of Medicaid costs for a child is about $860 on average this year. According to the Employee Benefit Research Institute, there are 4.7 million uninsured children whose parents make less than 125 percent of the Federal poverty level. That is $19,500 for a family of four. We, who make $134,000, continually complain about how hard it is to maintain two homes here and there and pay for all the things we pay for. Can you imagine what a family making less than $20,000 can do? 
By simple calculation, to cover those kids under Medicaid would cost $4.2 billion, about $1 billion more a year than is included in the budget resolution, and that is just some of the kids. This still would leave the vast majority of children of working parents above the 125 percent of poverty level uncovered. 
While $16 billion is a substantial start, and I commend my colleagues, as I have just shown, it is just not enough to do the whole job. 
Some will point out our original bill called for $20 billion in spending. They will ask, why is more than an additional $4 billion needed? Are you saying that this is a $36 billion problem, and, if that is so, why didn't you ask for that originally? 
These are fair questions. Let me answer them. 
The short answer to this concern is that we need these resources to help the next generation of Americans to be healthy adults. The fact is that the $16 billion in the budget resolution is not enough. When Senator Kennedy and I originally introduced the CHILD bill, we set a spending limit of $20 billion for services and $10 billion for deficit reduction. We hoped to target up to 5 million families not on Medicaid--I said not on Medicaid--and that is important. 
We are also cosponsors of the Chafee-Rockefeller-Jeffords CHIPS bill, which is estimated to cost at least $15 billion, perhaps even more. This Medicaid bill is targeted to help 5 million kids, although there are already about 3 million of Medicaid-eligible children who are not enrolled. So we see these two bills as compatible--the CHIPS bill improves basic Medicaid, and our bill would be added on top of that. 
There is, obviously, a close connection between the two. That is why, in our amendment, we decided to divide the money equally between each of the two committees, Labor and Finance, to work out an integrated approach. So to make wild comments that this bill is going to mandate this, mandate that, take away the powers of the States, when the original Hatch-Kennedy bill does not do that, is irrelevant to this debate, because if we adopt the Hatch-Kennedy amendment, we will have enough money to make a real dent in these problems. 
The fact is that $16 billion is a good start, but let's not 
kid ourselves, it is not enough, especially combined with the Medicaid cuts in the resolution, and that is why our amendment should be adopted. 
I understand that the Senator from New Hampshire and others are opposed to my CHILD bill. Most of his reasoning is wrong, though, but we will debate that at a more appropriate time when we actually get to fleshing out a CHILD bill. 
This is not a vote on the CHILD bill. Our amendment intends that the money be used for the same purposes as those outlined in the bipartisan budget agreement. That is, for one or both of the following: Medicaid, including outreach activities providing continuous 12-month eligibility, restoring eligibility for disabled children losing SSI under the welfare bill, and, this is also part of the budget resolution, a mandatory capped State grant program to finance health insurance for uninsured children. That grant program will be designed by the Labor and Finance Committees. We hope it will be like the CHILD bill, but it may not be. But we are going to work to try and make it what we said we would do. 
Under our amendment, $18 billion in program funding will go to the Labor Committee. Will the Senator yield me 1 more minute? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. May I have 1 more minute to finish my remarks? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, under our amendment, $18 billion in program funding will go to the Labor Committee and $2 billion to the Finance Committee to be added to the $16 billion already in the budget resolution. That means that each committee will get $18 billion to work on complementary programs to help the poor and the near poor. We will have to work out the legislative language. I hope it will be like the CHILD bill that we have worked so long and hard to make a possibility. But what we are voting on today, if and when we do, is the right to have enough funding moneys to take care of these kids who are the poorest of the poor families not on Medicaid who cannot do it otherwise. 
Of all the criticisms of our bill, I am perhaps most dismayed by the charge that this bill creates an entitlement. In sharp contrast to last year's Kennedy-Kerry bill which was an entitlement, I succeeded in persuading my cosponsor Ted Kennedy, one of the most liberal Members of the Senate, to agree to the following provision: 
Nonentitlement.--Nothing in this title shall be construed as providing an individual with an entitlement to assistance under this title. 
Don't words mean anything anymore? 
Moreover, not only does this bill make clear it is not an individual entitlement program, participation is clearly voluntary on the part of the States. In fact, even if an individual is eligible under the State's own eligibility criteria, section 2822(d) of the bill ensures that there is not a requirement for any subsidy to the individual should there be insufficient program funds available. This can be contrasted with programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, which guarantee we will pay for the services of every eligible beneficiary. In fact, the bill states specifically that. 
Some have interpreted the language that states: 
Shall ensure that children's policies are available to all eligible children in the State and that each eligible child has the opportunity to enroll for coverage under such policies. 
as an entitlement. 
It is true that a State that chooses to participate by negotiating a contract with one or more insurers must make sure that children in the State can get that policy. What good is health insurance availability 
if those who need it don't have at least the opportunity to get it? However, there is no requirement that the State subsidize that policy in any way unless the State chooses to do so by the eligibility criteria it sets. And there is no requirement that the insurance policy be available to nonsubsidized children at the price negotiated by the State for the subsidy program. 
To be fair, some may object to this provision, but it is in no way an entitlement. Again, the State chooses whether or not to participate, as does any individual insurer. 
Finally, the point has been made that the bill would increase Federal mandatory spending by $20 billion over the next 5 years. That is true. This provision was inserted to made certain that the revenues generated by the companion legislation (S. 526) which increases the tobacco excise tax would be used to fund the CHILD bill and not for some other program. If there is a better way to write that language to make clear it is not an entitlement, I am open to suggestions. 
I find it curious that many of my colleagues have been arguing against the fact that my bill calls for mandatory spending, calling the mandatory nature of that spending the equivalent of an entitlement. 
Yet, the budget resolution we debate today includes funding for a mandatory capped grant program to States. 
If `mandatory' equals `entitlement'--which I believe it does not--then the bipartisan budget agreement establishes a new entitlement. 
But we all know that is not the case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time remains on both sides on the amendment itself? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I know there are some others who would like to speak on our side. But I really think everybody knows what is involved here. I am prepared to yield back the balance of my time if the other side is and go to a vote, let this thing be resolved at this particular juncture any way Senators decide to do it. 
Mr. KENNEDY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am prepared to yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand that we still have 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could we make a few closing remarks? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have not felt really great about taking on some of my colleagues and irritating people on my side of the aisle. I always try to support the leadership in everything. And, I think I have a very good reputation for doing that. 
But there occurs in all of our lives--at times--issues that transcend the everyday important issues we face in the Senate on a daily basis, and this is one of them. Regardless of what happens here today, this issue is not going to go away. I think it is time for people to wake up and say, hey, look, this is an idea whose time has come. 
We must take care of these kids who cannot take care of themselves. The problem in this body, and the problem with the Federal Government, is that oftentimes we provide programs for all kinds of people who can take care of themselves, but will not. Yet, we do not take care of people who truly cannot take care of themselves, but would if they could. 
Children's health care should not be a political issue. This is not a Democrat issue. It is not a Republican issue. I admit that when I first read the Kennedy-Kerry bill, I could not support that bill as drafted. The bill provided a new Federal bureaucracy along with $50 billion in new entitlement spending. 
That bill provided extensive Federal mandates along with extensive Federal accountability and review provisions imposed on the States. It was simply unacceptable and provided far too much Federal intervention. 
I do not mean to find fault with my colleague, the Senator from Massachusetts, because he too has taken a stand on this issue and has been willing to come to the center in a bipartisan way to work with me to resolve these problems. But that bill was totally unacceptable to me and I know it would have not garnished nearly the support my bill has received. 
My bill is substantially different than the Kennedy-Kerry bill. My bill provides a block grant funding mechanism to the States which are given maximum flexibility to administer the program. The States set their own eligibility standards. And, the program is strictly voluntary. No new massive Federal or for that matter State bureaucracy is necessary since my bill builds on existing State programs or private sector initiatives. 
There is no funding mechanism because we already have a system in place to collect the excise tax on tobacco products. We would make those tax revenues available to the States much like we make matching funds available to the States through the Medicaid program. States would not have to hire massive new numbers of bureaucrats. The States basically operate the program in a manner consistent with existing children's programs or in ways that best meet the needs of the citizens. 
States will have the flexibility to contract with health insurance companies to develop new and innovative insurance products for children. In spite of some of the comments that have been made by those who oppose my bill, States can contract with private health insurers and/or health care providers such as 
community health centers to carry out the mission of this program. 
I want to give States even more flexibility in implementing the CHILD bill. I am open to further suggestions and refinements in the bill. In that respect, I have challenged my colleagues on both sides of the aisle alone with the Nation's Governors to help me in that effort. If there is a better way of doing this, then I am willing to discuss other proposals and make construction changes to the bill. 
My willingness to improve my bill extends to the funding mechanism as well. I ask my colleagues to show me a better way of funding this program. I cannot think of a more just way of funding the program than with an increase of 43 cents on the tobacco tax. In 1955, a pack of cigarettes cost 23 cents. The excise tax was 8 cents or 34 percent. Today a pack of cigarettes costs $1.80 to $2.30. The excise tax today is 24 cents, under 10 percent. 
Does it not seem fair and reasonable to ask the tobacco industry to help finance this program particularly in view of the health implications of tobacco use? The fact of the matter is that tobacco use is the single largest preventable cause of death. It is the largest preventable cause of illness in our society. 
Four out of five lung cancer victims in our country get cancer due to smoking. There are 51 million smokers in our country, 3 million of whom are teenagers. And, everyday 3,000 more teenagers begin to smoke, half of whom will become nicotine addicts by the time they are 18 years of age. 
As my colleagues know, currently the so-called global settlement negotiations are on-going between the tobacco companies and the States regarding the litigation against tobacco manufacturers. I have had the opportunity to review the arguments on both sides of the issue and I note that arguments have been made against any increases in tobacco prices on the belief that States will lose revenues. 
It seems to be that we should be spending more time worrying about the health of our citizens than the tobacco revenues going into State treasuries particularly when these revenues are marginal in comparison to health care costs States assume from smoking related illnesses. 
Now, look, we can put this issue off and we can play procedural games, but this issue is not going to go away. I think virtually everybody in the Senate has strong feelings about this issue although there are legitimate differences of viewpoint. 
Of all the arguments made against my bill, I think the one that is particularly false is that my bill creates a new entitlement. I am perhaps more dismayed by that charge because my bill specifically states that no new entitlement is establish by this legislation. 
I succeeded in persuading my cosponsor, Senator Kennedy, to agree to the nonentitlement provision in this bill which clearly states that: Nothing in this title shall be construed as providing an individual with an entitlement to assistance under this title. Moreover, State participation is totally voluntary. 
There is nothing in the bill that would establish an entitlement to the CHILD Program, but yet that has been one of the principal arguments against the measure. I guess any bill that has real winning power could be called an entitlement program. Any good program that actually works I guess should be called an entitlement even though these programs have to face the authorization and appropriations process which the CHILD bill is also subject to face. 
It is unbelievable this these kinds of arguments have been made. This is a voluntary program designed to be attractive to States. Does that make it an entitlement program? Does that somehow convert it into an entitlement program? It seems to me there are legal and programmatic distinctions between entitlement programs such as Medicare and the child development block grant program. 
I remember when the Child Development Block Grant Program came before the Senate. Many Senators including those in my party were 
opposed to it. Ironically, that bill passed the Senate unanimously and almost everybody claims credit for it because it has been a successful block grant program for the States. The States set their own standards which is precisely what my bill provides. I think we ought to wake up and do what is right here. 
Look, it is a fair characterization to say that this is a choice between Joe Camel and Joey. I am not just saying that because it is cute and gimmicky. I say that because it is true. 
I think the industry that causes much of the illnesses has an obligation to be of some help here. This is not a broad-based tax. The only people who pay this tax are those who smoke cigarettes and use tobacco products. 
In all candor, I trust my colleagues will keep this in mind. This issue is not going to go away. I understand that the leadership is going to file an amendment to my amendment. Fine. We will look at their amendment and see what it is. I hope it is a constructive amendment that will get us to what we are trying to do. 
However, these arguments that $16 billion is all that is needed are simply inaccurate. My bill is something we ought to do. These are the children who come from families of the working poor. It is very difficult for them to help themselves. I think of the billions of dollars we spend on people who can help themselves but will not. If we cannot do this, then what can we do? 
I am prepared to yield back the remainder of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time do we have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am prepared to yield back my time. I might add, I am prepared to accept the Senator's amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am prepared to accept the Senator's amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Forty-three cents. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Plus the equivalent for others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the distinguished minority manager yield me time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. 
I think that the Democratic leader has made a very compelling case. The amendment we are offering does not break the budget agreement. 
He summarized three points basically. 
No. 1, our amendment, just like the Domenici amendment, embodies no new health care program but builds on the existing monies in the budget resolution. 
No. 2, although our amendment alters the revenue numbers by raising the tax on tobacco there is no excise tax in the body of the text. It is my understanding that such language would not be in order. I think it would also raise serious constitutional questions about a tax originating in the Senate. I think my colleagues understand that point. 
No. 3, as I am pleased to recognize, as Senator Daschle has noted, our amendment does not worsen the deficit. In fact, it lowers the deficit. 
You would think that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle would be interested in doing supporting this language, especially on a balanced budget resolution. Keep in mind, although this budget resolution claims to balance the budget, the U.S. Government will still have a $6 trillion national debt. The Hatch-Kennedy amendment would reduce that debt by $10 billion more over the next 5 years. 
Frankly, for these reasons I believe that our amendment is fully consistent with the budget resolution as described by the distinguished Budget Committee chairman. 
Let us not use as an excuse to avoid an important vote on a major public health problem that we are somehow trying to break the 
agreement on the budget resolution. My amendment helps the budget. And, in the end, we will be helping 10 million uninsured children who otherwise will not have the help we can provide them today. 
Let me also be very candid here with respect to the strategy. We all know that if we do pass this amendment, it will probably have to be included in the reconciliation bill. If we do not pass the Hatch-Kennedy amendment today, I understand--and I believe it is probably accurate--that it will take 60 votes to do it on a reconciliation bill. I am not saying we cannot get the 60 votes, but naturally we would like to be able to have it in the budget resolution so that we do not have to have that hurdle. 
If I have some advice for my colleagues on my side of the aisle, I would suggest you acknowledge that $16 billion is not enough, especially when you, in a sense, rob Peter to pay Paul. We will end-up taking DSH moneys that were to be used for the poor and using many of them for a new program of children's health. 
At that, the $16 billion will not take care of more than what the Chafee-Rockefeller-Jeffords-Breaux bill provides. It will take care of maybe 3 million kids who are eligible for Medicaid but are not enrolled, but it does not take care of the 7 million kids who are not eligible for Medicaid but can't afford health insurance. 
So those who believe that they are doing the right thing by upholding this so-called budget agreement when, in fact, my amendment does not break the agreement, may be making it even more difficult to pass legislation that would help poor children in working families. 
One of my colleagues said, you have won Senator Hatch because you got $16 billion in the budget resolution. I admit that I am very pleased with this result and that it is a step in the right direction. And, in fact, that money would probably not be there in the budget resolution had it not been for the efforts of those Senators who support the CHILD legislation as well as other proposals. 
I commend my colleagues on the Budget Committee for doing providing the $16 billion. Unfortunately, that amount will not provide the necessary financial commitment needed to ensure those children most in need. 
Senator Domenici's substitute amendment to my amendment essentially strikes out all the moneys raised in my bill for children. In effect, the substitute amendment is what is already contained in the budget resolution for children's health--and nothing more. 
Frankly, if you look at that amendment, basically it says on page 3, line 3, where we had increased the amount by $16 billion, it strikes out $16 billion; page 3, line 4, it strikes out the money; there on page 3, line 5, it strikes out the money; there on page 3, line 6, it strikes out the money there, right on down through the whole amendment. 
So all they are saying is they are going to limit new spending for children's health to $16 billion, whether that is adequate or not. I think we have made better than a good case that it is inadequate. I think we made a case that every Senator in this Chamber ought to be able to support. 
It is time to resolve this problem. We are going to have to resolve it. You know, the odds have been very heavily against us from the start on this thing in the budget context. But I hope that those who are supporters of the Hatch-Kennedy bill will stand up, and I hope that there are others who may be supporters who will think this through and realize that it is a good amendment to support. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-37-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have been listening to the Senator and I think anybody who understands the parliamentary situation knows we can get a vote. It may take a few days, but we can get a vote. I do not want to have that kind of a confrontation, but if that is the way it is, then that is the way it is. I am prepared to accept the Domenici amendment and probably some of the future amendments, and I am prepared to vote. 
That still does not resolve the problem that the distinguished Senator and I have been trying to solve, am I right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-38-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. May I ask my colleague another question? Is it not correct that all we are saying here is that we would like to have a vote, win or lose, on our amendment today? If we win, that makes it easier for us to go through the process. Naturally, any good legislator should want to do that if you really believe in what you are doing. I have to say both of us believe in what we are doing. 
That is true, is it not? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-39-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-40-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I normally would not get this argumentative, but, to be honest with you, I have heard some of the worst arguments against this bill that I have ever heard in any Senate proceeding. 
This morning I read a New York Times article, `Citing Lost Cigarette Revenue, GOP Fights Child Insurance.' I could not believe what I read: 
Republican senators today attacked a children's health insurance bill, saying the higher Federal tax it would put on tobacco would cost the states more than $1 billion in revenue annually by cutting cigarette sales. 
The measure, proposed by Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, calls for raising the current 24-cents-a-pack Federal tax to 67 cents to pay for subsidized insurance for children of the working poor. The sponsors of the bill intend to offer it on Wednesday as an amendment to the budget resolution. 
Here is where it is interesting:  
The Republican Policy Committee, an arm of the leadership, today called the sponsoring Senators' intentions `admirable' but misguided, `because states depend to a great degree on excise tax revenue.' The committee estimated that decreased smoking resulting from the tax increase would cost states and localities $6.5 billion over five years. 
`Even if one believes that decreased demand for tobacco is positive from a societal view, it still has negative fiscal aspects for the States,' the committee said. 
Let me tell you, that is really something. I had just heard about this recent policy analysis put out by the Republican Policy Committee about the `unforeseen effects' of the tobacco tax. I was not exactly proud to be a Republican under those circumstances. I am sure some of my colleagues wish I were not today. 
But I am going to be because I believe in the Republican Party and I believe in what we stand for and I believe in taking care of kids. I believe in helping those who cannot help themselves. 
Let's start taking the money away from those that can but won't help themselves. 
As my colleagues may be aware, on April 23, the Republican Policy Committee issued a report entitled, `The Complex Problem of Insuring Uninsured Children.' This report, revised on May 1, noted that this is the first in a series of RPC papers devoted to this issue. We can only hope that this most recent May 16 piece of tortured logic is the last of this series unless more compelling analyses are forthcoming. 
Here is the point that is entirely missed. It would be a great thing for the public health of this country and particularly for the health of young Americans if tobacco tax revenues dropped substantially because tobacco is the single greatest preventable threat to our Nation's public health. 
No one should be so protective of lower tobacco taxes because the taxes might raise more revenues, any more than the public would support appointing Dr. Kevorkian as a Surgeon General in an attempt to achieve Medicare savings. 
I look forward to economists studying in detail the analyses of the May 16 RPC paper. It seems to me that the tobacco companies would have liked to have been able to have included this somewhat mysterious line of reasoning in their public comments to the FDA rules pertaining to the regulation of tobacco sales to minors. 
I wonder how much of the supposed $6.5 billion in lost revenues to States that they say will happen comes in the form of illegal sales that are quite literally poisoning and hooking our youth. I also want to know what Governors publicly take the position that State tobacco revenues are more important than the public health. I doubt many of the 20-plus attorneys general involved in lawsuits to recover State Medicaid funds attributable to tobacco-related illnesses would agree that a decrease in tobacco consumption is a bad idea. 
It seems to me that the title of the May 16 report, `Unforeseen Effects of the Much-Touted Tobacco Tax Should Be Changed,' frankly, it would be better titled, `The World Turned Upside Down.' I will be interested to know what the experts on the Joint Tax Committee and other groups, how they will view this RPC analysis. 
If I were not just a humble country lawyer from out West, I would almost get the feeling that somebody told the analysts at the RPC to trash the tobacco tax in any way possible. I have been around here for 20 years, better than 20 years. I have been trashed by more gifted analyses than this. 
Let me close this portion of my thoughts by saying that if I could get a list of Senators who are withholding support of our amendment due to the reasoning contained in the RPC document, I would immediately enter into discussions with my cosponsors. I think it is probably safe to say that if this is what it takes to attract more supporters to our measure, we can probably shift some of the funds marked for Federal deficit reduction to indemnify the States from potential revenue losses to any decrease in tobacco uses. 
Who are these Senators? Senator Kennedy and I would like to talk to you. 
Now the Republican Policy Committee is implying that it is more important to preserve tobacco excise taxes than the health of our children because we will get people, especially children, to quit smoking in the process. We know that every time smoking goes up 10 percent, 7 percent of the kids will never touch a cigarette. 
Are we to sacrifice people's health and lives to preserve tobacco excise taxes? Would we rather have excise taxes than healthy citizens in our States? Those who argue this way seem to want to maintain big tobacco revenues at the expense of the life and health of our citizens. 
Now, I find this appalling because all Senator Kennedy and I are offering is legislation that will result in good health for smokers and which will help children. The arguments of the opponents are logically flawed. Their interest in maintaining State tax revenues at a certain level is more important to them than the health and welfare of the citizens in our States. 
When it gets to the point that we are so ideologically constipated that we place the preservation of State tobacco revenues above the welfare of our American citizens, then we need to rethink our philosophy. I have to say I would have been willing to sit down and discuss this matter with anybody, reasonably, on how to handle this. 
I have to admit that I am probably irritating everybody around here. But I am irritated, too. If you want to play this game, we can just have one vote after another from here on in until the end of the process, and we will finally get our vote. If it means day and night, I will be here. I have done it before. I can do it again. 
All I want is some consideration for our side. In all honesty, I don't think we have had much. We are talking about kids here. We are talking about the poorest of the poor kids not on Medicaid, and about Medicaid kids, too. We are talking about doing something right--doing something for people who cannot help themselves and doing it by raising money from the industry that is causing a lot of the troubles. 
I also have to tell you that 72 percent of all adults in this country think this is the right thing to do. And even 50 percent of all smokers think it is the right thing to do. 
There isn't a better tax cutter in this body or one more zealously devoted to it than Orrin Hatch. Don't tell me about raising taxes, or cutting taxes. 
I have been for every tax cut I can get. I was one of the few who voted against the 1986 tax increase in the Reagan years and the Bush tax increase when it came up. I voted against that even though I was brought down to the White House and asked to vote for it. I sincerely told the President I couldn't do it. 
So I have the credentials on tax cutting. I was one of the original supply-side proponents and went all over this country to 36 States for then-Governor Reagan arguing for tax cuts. 
Here we have something that could be done to rectify some of the problems of our society without a cost to 80 percent of American taxpayers--only about 20 percent would pay this--and you would think the whole world was coming to an end. 
I really believe that if big tobacco were smart, they would come and say we ought to do this. People out there would respect them, and there would be more of an interest in trying to work out their difficulties with them. 
I have to say that I am getting a little frustrated. This is an important issue. It shouldn't be treated trivially. 
So we will just see what happens. Unless I can be shown some better way of getting this amendment considered and having an up or down vote on it, then we are just going to keep fighting this battle until we get that vote. 
I am open to the suggestions of my colleagues. I am open to sitting down with them to talk to them and see what can be done. But until then, this is the way it is going to be here. 
We may lose here today. But, if we do, it won't be for the lack of trying, and it won't be the last time we try either. It isn't going to end, even if it is right up to the end of the Congress. I just want to notify everybody now. I do not want any arguments next year that somebody is going to be hurt by this debate because I have notified this body that I plan to press the issue. 
I want to thank my colleague from Massachusetts for yielding to me. 
I yield back to my friend from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-41-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed 30 seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-42-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I also suggest that everybody vote for this amendment. That is fine with me. We will just vote for it. I am prepared to take it, but if not, then let's vote, and we will go from there. 
Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-43-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the distinguished majority leader yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-44-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think it should be pointed out to the majority leader that our bill does not interfere with the innovative programs in Utah and many other States which are doing so much to help children get health care. 
I think it is important to underscore that even with the great Caring program, there are still 56,000 kids in Utah who are not covered. This is in spite of the Utah Governor's substantial efforts as well. And I might add that throughout the country similar efforts are occurring. 
If the Senators believe that the language of my bill is not clear on this point, I am open to suggestions on what we can do here. 
But I think that a much larger point bears repeating. The budget includes a reduction in spending of about $14 billion for Medicaid. Clearly, everyone recognizes that most of the reductions will probably come from the disproportionate share program, or DSH. There are not many other offsets within the Finance Committee. 
At the same time, the budget includes $16 billion in new money for children's health care initiatives. It seems reasonable to assume that the Medicaid reductions will come from DSH--which, after all, is a program for the poor--and the increase will be given back to the poor in the form of Medicaid improvements or a mandatory grant program. 
So it looks to me like a fairly good percentage of the $16 billion in new money will end up being taken from another program serving poor children and seniors. 
Don't get me wrong. I think it is a wonderful thing for the budget to include the $16 billion. 
But if you analyze the numbers, you will see that that amount probably will cover the 3 million kids who currently qualify for Medicaid but are not enrolled, and maybe even a few more. But I doubt it will even cover 5 million in a meaningful way, as the budget document suggests. 
And that still leaves 5, 6, or 7 million kids who are not covered. 
All I am saying is this. We are not interfering with any of those 33 State programs. This bill does not interfere with them. In fact, it builds on existing State efforts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-45-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I may just finish? I apologize for taking so much time, but let me make this point, since my State was mentioned and since I think the statements were not completely accurate. 
Under our bill--which as Senator Nickles pointed out earlier is not even the subject of our amendment today--participating States would use Federal grants to help working parents with incomes too high for Medicaid buy private health insurance or purchase care through a Community Health Center for their children. 
So Utah could use the Federal funds under the CHILD bill to supplement the current privately supported Blue Cross/Blue Shield Caring program for children, which serves over 1,000 children. This program provides a base on which to greatly expand subsidized private health insurance coverage. 
And I know this is true, because I am one of those who helped get that program up and running. 
I might also add, just for my good friends and colleagues, the distinguished majority leader and the Senator from New Hampshire, the Utah program has endorsed the Hatch-Kennedy bill. I think that is just something that needs to be said. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-46-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the distinguished Senator from New Mexico yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-47-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Thank you, Madam President. I thank my friend from New Mexico. 
Madam President, I listened to the earlier remarks of the Senator from New Hampshire, and I believe that my colleague has either misread or mischaracterized many aspects of the CHILD bill. 
Let me set the record straight. 
First, despite what the Senator from New Hampshire and other Senators may have alleged here, nothing in this bill mandates any State to participate. 
Let's go through some of the other erroneous accusations that have been made by those who oppose the bill. 
First, they said it created an entitlement program. This totally ignores the fact that the bill states explicitly `Nothing in this title shall be construed as providing an individual with an entitlement under this title.' 
Moreover, the States themselves establish eligibility criteria for this voluntary block grant program. The bill explicitly provides that participating States need not provide subsidies to otherwise subsidy-eligible children, even according to their own criteria, if funds are not adequate. Funding for the program is automatically reduced if revenues are insufficient to cover costs including the cost of deficit reduction. 
Some have said this bill creates new mandates on States. Participation in this program is purely voluntary for States. The program maximizes State flexibility and merely establishes reasonable requirements for States choosing to participate to assure that Federal funds meet program objectives, in the same way as such other health block grant programs as the substance abuse block grant, the maternal and child health block grant, and the preventive services health block grant operated. 
There is nothing new about this. This is the way you write a grant program. 
Then, opponents of the bill said it mandates the Medicaid benefits package. The facts are that the States choosing to participate in the program are expected to provide the benefits for children that the State already provides under the State Medicaid program. We advanced this proposal recognizing the importance of potential sensitivity of this issue and have indicated our willingness to modify this section if better ideas emerge. And we will certainly do that. 
Medicaid benefits include services that are particularly critical for children such as broad coverage for preventive benefits. Children meeting the State eligibility requirements in families that receive insurance through employer-based plans are 
eligible for subsidies to cover the employee coinsurance and copayment attributable to the children and such employer-based plans need not comply with the Medicaid package of benefits. The limits on cost sharing under Medicaid are not mandated. 
Another claim that has been made here today, on more than one occasion, is that the CHILD bill eliminates any future Medicaid waivers. 
The fact is that, first, if a State chooses not to participate in the CHILD Program, the law will have absolutely no effect on its ability to receive a Medicaid waiver. In other words, the provision will only affect participating States. 
If a State chooses to participate in the CHILD Program, it must not cut back on the existing Medicaid eligibility requirements for children. We did this to assure that States use program funds to cover additional children, rather than replace existing State funding responsibilities under Medicaid. 
This has nothing to do with Medicaid managed care and expanded Medicaid coverage, the two major subjects of Medicaid waivers. 
Another claim that has been made is that the bill mandates abortion funding for teens because the program requires benefits the equivalent of those under Medicaid. 
As a Senator who is proud of his pro-life voting record, I would never do anything to advance the cause of those who wish to expand abortion coverage. I do not believe that my bill would cover abortions. As an appropriated program, the CHILD bill would be subject to annual appropriations and would fall under the Hyde amendment prohibitions relating to abortion services. 
I know that some of my colleagues are disappointed in having to consider this amendment today. Some believe it would break the budget deal. Others are fearful of a tax increase. My purpose is simple: I am exercising my rights as a Senator to amend this budget and increase funding for children. 
Why can't we just get a vote on this one way or the other? 
Let me just say that I worked with the chairman of the Budget Committee for many years when I was on the Budget Committee. I know that he worked very hard in achieving this budget agreement, and I commend him for it. In fact, I admire him for it. I was not part of that negotiating team. But I am still a U.S. Senator who should be allowed to have a vote on his amendment. 
As I understand the situation, we are now in the process of allowing Senators who were not part of the Budget Committee or part of the budget negotiating team to review what the leadership of the Congress and the administration have agreed upon. Our job today is to review this deal, use our judgment and decide whether we support this agreement. 
What it comes down to is that the sponsors of this amendment believe it improves the budget package. We get $10 billion more in deficit reduction under our amendment. And we help about 5 million more kids who aren't helped. 
For the life of me, I cannot understand what is the matter with that. What is so difficult about that? Why can't we help these kids? 
I agree that the $16 billion in the bill is a good provision. I feel good about that. 
But much of that money--as much as $14 billion--will be in effect taken from other existing programs for seniors and kids that are important--such as the disproportionate share hospital program. 
So what we are doing here is taking moneys that have been used to help the poor and other people and put it another category to help the poor. 
Well, I am happy to have the $16 billion in additional funding for kids, and the recognition that there is a problem here. But that still will only solve the problems probably for the 3 million kids who qualify for Medicaid and who the CHIPS bill is designed to help. 
But I keep asking myself, `What about the 7 million kids who weren't covered?' Perhaps there will be enough funding to cover 
some of them. But there are at least 5 million, probably 6 million--and maybe as high as 7 million--who are not taken care of. 
That is all we are trying to do here. 
And we are recommending a block grant to deal with the problem, a block grant just like the many other health and social services block grants that have worked very well through the years. 
I understand that one of the key areas of concern relates to the benefit package. Having been through the victorious battle over the flawed Clinton health care proposal in 1993-94, I know full well all the baggage that a Washington-dictated benefit package carries. 
When I introduced the CHILD bill, I stated my willingness to work with the Governors and others to see whether an alternative to the Medicaid benefit plan would be acceptable to all parties. I remain willing to do so. I think Senator Kennedy as well has said that he is aware that this is a sensitive issue which needs to be addressed. 
Perhaps an explanation of why I agreed to the Medicaid package will be helpful to everyone here. 
First, there was the practical concern of moving the legislative process forward that I felt argued against an endless series of `reinventing-the-wheel' type meetings to come up with a benefits package. I have been through that before. As you can appreciate, this would have touched off a time-consuming siege by the various medical provider specialty groups arguing that their specialty merited inclusion. 
Second, on the merits, while I remain open to be persuaded otherwise, I am unaware of a children's health insurance model clearly superior to the current Medicaid standard with its children's early and periodic screening, diagnosis, and treatment--EPSDT--component. As you know, the general standard of EPSDT is that medically necessary services be provided. On its face, it is difficult to fault this principle. 
While I understand the view that EPSDT is too generous compared with other health insurance plans as implemented by the States and interpreted by the courts, I think it incumbent upon those who make this criticism to specify precisely what services should not be included in the benefits package. 
I am open to that. Such a dialog, if grounded in specifics, could only have a salutary effect on the refinement of the CHILD bill and perhaps for the Medicaid Program as well. 
I expect that the Governors will have something to say about this topic after they develop their principles for child health insurance which we expect to see at the end of the month. I plan to hear what they have to say and continue to work with them. 
We have to keep in mind that our amendment addresses the problem of children from poor families where parents work but just do not earn enough money to provide for health insurance. We ought to be ashamed not to solve this problem, when we solve so many other problems that are a lot less important than this one. 
I don't see why we should have this big donnybrook or why we should be fighting so vigorously over this. We ought to just do it. 
And we can do it--fully funded--by asking the one community that many experts acknowledge has caused $50 billion to $100 billion in unnecessary costs annually to help pay for the problem. 
With that, I will be happy to yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-48-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Reserving the right to object, I didn't hear the request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-49-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Oh, sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-50-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will take a minute and then the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts will take the other. 
I have to say, this was a constructive debate. I think we all learned a lot about children's health and more importantly about the political process. 
You know, it is tough work trying to spend money for kids. 
I have been accused of being a Democratic pawn here today. 
So I find it amusing that several of our `yes' votes have been quietly converted to `noes' this afternoon by some of the biggest and best lobbyists there are. And I am not speaking of the tobacco industry. 
There is no way of knowing, but I think we would have won this one if we had it at the scheduled time at 11:30. We will leave that discussion for a later date. 
How much time does this Senator have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-51-19970521</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just end it this way. 
I think the President and the people in the White House have caved here, people who we had every reason to believe would be supportive of kids' health. 
Let me say, the Washington Post framed the issue in its editorial page just yesterday. They said, `This is a vote against the harmful effects of tobacco, in favor of children's health, in favor of State decision-making, and in favor of fiscal discipline. How many times do they get one like that? They ought to vote aye.' 
I hope Senators will vote against the motion to table, and in favor of our amendment. 
Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 44, S. 476, regarding the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. 
I further ask unanimous consent that there be 20 minutes under the control of Senator Hatch, 10 minutes under the control of Senator Biden, and 10 minutes under control of Senator Leahy, and no amendments be in order to the bill; and, finally, following the expiration or yielding back of the time, the bill be read a third time with no other intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support S. 476, legislation to further the commitment of the Republican Congress to support the expansion of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, one of the best examples of proven youth crime prevention. 
This is not a partisan initiative, however. I am pleased to have the company of a bipartisan group of Senators, including Senator Biden, the ranking Democrat on the Youth Violence Subcommittee, Senator Stevens, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Gregg, the chairman of the Commerce, Justice, State Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Kohl, who serves on the Judiciary Committee, and, of course, Senator Thurmond, who has served as a distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee. 
Mr. President, the volunteer spirit is alive and well in America. The Presidents' summit on voluntarism, held recently in Philadelphia, focused national attention on this aspect of the American people's generous spirit. Yet, the effects of the legislation we are debating today will be felt in neighborhoods across the country long after the spotlight is gone, and long after the speeches are forgotten. 
Our legislation addresses our continuing initiative to ensure that, with Federal seed money, the Boys and Girls Clubs of America are able to expand to serve an additional 1 million young people through at least 2,500 clubs by the year 2000. The dedication of all of these members demonstrates our commitment to both authorize and fund this effort. 
Last year, in a bipartisan effort, the Republican Congress enacted legislation I authored to authorize $100 million in Federal seed money over 5 years to establish and expand Boys and Girls Clubs in public housing and distressed areas throughout our country. With the help of the Appropriations Committee, we have fully funded this initiative. 
The bill we are debating today streamlines the application process for these funds, and permits a small amount of the funds to be used to establish a role model speakers' program to encourage and motivate young people nationwide. 
It is important to note that what we are providing is seed money for the construction and expansion of clubs to serve our young people. This is bricks and mortar money to open clubs. After they are opened, they will operate without any significant Federal funds. In my view, this is a model for the proper role of the Federal Government in crime prevention. 
The days are over when we can afford huge, never-ending, federally run programs. According to a GAO report last year, over the past 30 years, Congress has created 131 separate Federal programs, administered by 16 different agencies, to serve delinquent and at-risk youth. These programs cost $4 billion in fiscal year 1995. Yet we have not made significant progress in keeping our young people away from crime and drugs. 
What we can and must afford is short-term, solid support for proven private sector programs--like the Boys and Girls Clubs--that really do make a difference. Boys and Girls Clubs are among the most effective nationwide programs to assist youth to grow into honest, caring, involved, and law-abiding adults. 
We know that Boys and Girls Clubs work. Researchers at Columbia University found that public housing developments in which there was an active Boys and Girls Club had a 25-percent reduction in the presence of crack cocaine, a 22-percent reduction in overall drug activity, and a 13 percent reduction in juvenile crime. Members of Boys and Girls Clubs also do better in school, are less attracted to gangs, and feel better about themselves. 
There are many distinguished alumni of Boys and Girls Clubs, including President Clinton and other role models such as actor Denzel Washington, basketball superstar Michael Jordan, and San Francisco 49ers quarterback Steve Young. 
More important, however, are the uncelebrated success stories--the miracles performed by Boys and Girls Clubs every day. At a Judiciary Committee hearing on March 19, we heard from one of these miracles. Amador Guzman, from my State of Utah, told us how he believes the club in his neighborhood saved his life, by keeping him from gangs, drugs, and violence. 
The reason Boys and Girls Clubs work--and the reason Congress wants to do more for them--is because they are locally run and depend primarily on community involvement for their success. 
Never have our youth had a greater need 
for the positive influence of Boys and Girls Clubs, and never has the work of the Clubs been more critical. Our young people are being assaulted from all sides with destructive messages. For instance, drug use is on the rise. Recent statistics reconfirm that drugs are ensnaring young people as never before. Overall drug use by youth ages 12 to 17 rose 105 percent between 1992 and 1995, and 33 percent between 1994 and 1995. 10.9 percent of our young people now use drugs on a monthly basis, and monthly use of marijuana is up 37 percent, monthly use of LSD is up 54 percent, and monthly cocaine use by youth is up 166 percent between 1994 and 1995. 
Our young people are also being assaulted by gangs. By some estimates, there are more than 3,875 youth gangs, with 200,000 members, in the Nation's 79 largest cities, and the numbers are going up. Even my State of Utah has not been immune from this scourge. In Salt Lake City, since 1992, the number of identified gangs has increased 55 percent, from 185 to 288. The number of gang members has increased 146 percent, from 1,438 to 3,545; and the number of gang-related crimes has increased a staggering 279 percent, from 1,741 in 1992 to 6,611 in 1996. Shockingly, 208 of these involved drive-by shootings. 
Every day, our young people are being bombarded with cultural messages in music, movies, and television that undermine the development of core values of citizenship. Popular culture and the media glorify drug use, meaningless violence, and sex without commitment. 
The importance of Boys and Girls Clubs in fighting drug abuse, gang recruitment, and moral poverty cannot be overstated. The Clubs across the country are a bulwark for our young people and deserve all the support we can give. 
Indeed, Federal efforts are already paying off. Using over $15 million in seed money appropriated for fiscal year 1996, the Boys and Girls Clubs of America opened 208 new clubs in 1996. These clubs are providing positive places of hope, safety, learning and encouragement for about 180,000 more kids today than in 1995. In my State of Utah, these funds have helped keep an additional 6,573 kids away gangs, drugs, and crime. 
The $20 million appropriated for fiscal year 1997 is expected to result in another 200 clubs and 200,000 more kids involved in clubs. We need now to redouble our efforts. The legislation we introduce today demonstrates our commitment to do that. It will not, and cannot, solve our juvenile crime problem. We will be bringing other legislation to the floor that will address, in a comprehensive manner, the urgent problems of juvenile crime. S. 476, is, however, an important first step in that endeavor, aimed at stopping youth crime before it starts. 
Mr. President, let me just add, this is a terrific bill. It is a bipartisan initiative. I want to compliment my colleague from Delaware for the hard work he has done through the years on Boys and Girls Clubs, and he certainly deserves a lot of the credit for the bill. We have worked together, and we are going to continue to do so. I hope that the Congress will pass this in an expeditious fashion to continue to use one of the best ways of stopping crime and helping kids that our society has ever known.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague for his kind remarks. 
I think he has summed it up very, very well. So I will not repeat what he has said. I agree with him. I have to say this is one of the best programs for youth that we could do. It is the right thing to do, and I urge all our colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is correct. The bill will change the law to permit Boys and Girls Clubs to be expanded where needed, and certainly a club in a rural area could be needed, and make a significant difference to the young people in that area. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Absolutely. The original language passed last year expressly included rural areas, but this amendment is intended to make our intent clearer that not only can rural areas as well as urban qualify as distressed areas, but also that clubs ought be expanded into rural areas and smaller communities where needed and, in particular, into rural areas such as those in my friend's State of Vermont, my State of Utah, and other States with few Boys and Girls Clubs. I agree with the Senator that our call for 1,000 new clubs by the year 2001 should include attention to expanding opportunities for young people in our rural areas and smaller communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Absolutely. I am as concerned about the threat of drugs and gangs coming into our rural communities as is the Senator from Vermont, and I believe strongly that the Boys and Girls Clubs we seek to establish are a big part of the answer to these threats. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am prepared to yield back the remainder of my time. 
Would the Senator from Delaware yield back the remainder of his time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield back the remainder of my time as well as Senator Leahy's time, I am authorized to say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of H.R. 1122, the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 1997. 
I understand that many people on both sides of this issue have very strongly held beliefs. I respect those whose views differ from my own. And I condemn, as I know every other Member of this body does, the use of violence or any other illegal method to express any point of view on this issue. Unfortunately, Mr. President, it ought to be noted the expression of points of view on the issue of partial-birth abortion has been marked by half-truths and the knowing or reckless deception of the American people. 
Let us be very clear about what is at issue in this legislation. Despite the rhetoric of the bill's more extreme opponents, it is not about the right of a woman who so chooses to have an abortion. H.R. 1122 does not address whether all abortions after a certain week of pregnancy should be banned, nor whether late-term abortions should be permitted only in certain circumstances. The Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 1997 bans one, and only one, specific abortion procedure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to support the reauthorization of the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act [IDEA]. For over 20 years, IDEA has been assisting children with disabilities overcome obstacles and become successful students who go on to become productive citizens. 
I commend the efforts of Chairman Jeffords, Senator Harkin, and Senator Frist. The Labor and Human Resources Committee has crafted a bill which is the product of hours and hours of consultation and discussion on both a bipartisan and bicameral basis. I also understand that Majority Leader Lott has taken a special interest in this bill as well, and I appreciate his leadership in the effort to enact this legislation. 
I have personally been assisted throughout this process by my Utah Advisory Committee on Disability Policy, and specifically by Dr. Steve Kukic, director of the Utah State Office of Education's Services for Students At Risk. Early on in this process, Dr. Kukic presented testimony to the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee and identified what I believe is a key factor in this ultimately successful reauthorization which is a balanced system of accountability. Crucial to the success of IDEA is a framework where parents, advocates, school administrators and educators all work together to ensure that children are appropriately served. 
I appreciate that parents, advocates, school administrators, and educators may have different and strongly held opinions about how to accomplish the goal of delivering educational services to all children, particularly with regard to disciplinary actions and attorneys fees. I believe that central to the intention of this reauthorization was the attainment of balance between the objective of these interested parties. I also believe that this reauthorization, by and large, achieves this balance. 
I concur with several of the points raised by Senator Gregg, particularly the notion that if the Federal Government fulfilled its commitment to funding IDEA at an appropriate amount, then resources would be available on the state level to fund projects deemed necessary by the State. 
However, as has often been stated in the Senate, we should not allow the perfect to become the enemy of the good. It is vital that we move ahead with the reauthorization of IDEA. This program makes a tremendous difference in the lives of children with disabilities. 
I again want to commend all senators who participated in bringing this legislation to the floor. And, I would also like to single out a couple of staff members for their dedication to this goal. Pat Morrissey with Senator Jeffords and Robert Silverstein with Senator Harkin deserve special kudos for hanging in there for the duration. 
I am pleased that both the Senate and House of Representatives have ensured that the services provided under IDEA will continue, and I am pleased to vote in support of final passage. I urge the President to sign it promptly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President last Friday, May 9, was `Family Child Care Provider Appreciation Day' in Utah and perhaps in other States as well. It is fitting to pay tribute to family-based child care providers who are an essential component of our child care system, both in Utah and throughout the United States. 
Family Child Care Providers are self-employed business people caring for up to six children at a time in their own homes for as much as 50 hours per week. Utah has over 2,000 family child care homes which service about half of the children in child care. Currently, it is estimated that 65 percent of mothers with children under 5 work outside the home, so the need certainly exists for a variety of child care options. Child care provided in individual family homes is one such option. 
Some parents for a variety of reasons prefer home environments for their children. Debbie, a child care provider in West Valley City, UT, watched a 2-year-old who was on a feeding tube. It is often very difficult to find care for sick or disabled children; but, in the flexible setting of her home, Debbie was able to provide the personal attention and care needed, making this particular child's experience as positive as possible. 
Vicki is a family child care provider in Cedar City, UT. 
She has provided help for parents who are trying to rebuild their lives. In one case, she provided care for a little girl while her father was in jail and her mother was working, but not earning a lot. Vicki says this family is doing better now. The father is out of jail and holding down a job. Vicki is still caring for their son while his mother works. Vicki says she likes to help families to get off of welfare and to build a better future. 
Family child care providers help families like these to achieve the American Dream. Family child care not only helps parents in the work force with peace of mind, but it also provides a supplemental income for mothers who want to be home with their own children. 
But do not confuse family child care providers with babysitters. Family care providers in Utah follow the highest of standards; they renew their licences every year by taking 12 credit hours of classes and updating certification in both CPR and first aid on a yearly basis. Utah has over 2,000 family child care homes which service about half of the children in child care. These statistics as well as the level of professionalism in which family child care providers operate is very important when it comes to quality care for our children. 
The future of our country depends on the quality of the early childhood experiences provided to young children today. Family child care providers provide important choices for parents who must work. As a strong advocate for putting our children first, I am pleased to honor these outstanding citizens in our communities who are making such a difference. I am happy to join in recognizing their achievements as well as their importance as part of our child care system.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to reconsider the vote. 
Mr. BUMPERS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970507</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Alaska for the excellent remarks he has made. He has summarized this as well as anyone could. He is an expert in this area. 
And I compliment my colleague from Utah for the work he is doing in this area. He is a great leader in this area. I personally appreciate the leadership that he has provided. He will show through descriptive evidence some of the problems that we have. 
Let me just say this: I also want to thank Senator Stevens, the senior Senator from Alaska. Both he and Senator Murkowski have provided our colleagues with a good overview of where the situation now stands, why the language in the supplemental appropriations bill is necessary, and why Senators should oppose the amendment of our good friend and colleague, Senator Bumpers. 
I want to commend Senators Murkowski and Stevens for their leadership on this matter. They know and understand the issue better than anyone else in this body. When it comes to preserving rights-of-way over public lands for State and local governments, there are no better advocates than the two of them, and certainly the senior Senator from Alaska, who himself served in the Interior Department. I am pleased to join with them today, and I thank them on behalf of the citizens of my State for leading this effort. 
For several years now the Department of Interior and the U.S. Congress have been at odds over that Department's effort regarding vested property rights essential to states and local governments throughout the west. On at least three occasions, Congress has blocked promulgation of Interior Department regulations intended to regulate retroactively the terms and conditions of the establishment of certain highway rights-of-way vested between the middle of the last century and 1976. 
As Senator Murkowski indicated, the Department of Interior, frustrated by Congress, is now attempting to do indirectly that which it cannot do directly. The Department is attempting to implement the blocked regulations under the guise of a new policy guidance issued on January 22 of this year. This guidance promotes a concept of Federal law which preempts State law, in spite of the fact that Federal courts have found State property laws applicable to issues such as vesting and scope of the right-of-way as a matter of Federal law. 
What is at stake here for those of us in the West is the preservation of what amounts to the primary transportation system and infrastructure of many rural cities and towns. The rights-of-way in question are found in the form of dirt roads, cart paths, small log bridges over streams or ravines, and other thoroughfares and ways whose development and use was originally authorized in 1866 during the homesteading activities that led to the establishment of western communities. They have been created over time and by necessity. In many cases, these roads are the only routes to farms and ranches; they provide necessary access for school buses, emergency vehicles, and mail delivery. These highways--and we are obviously not using the term `highway' in the modern sense--traverse Federal lands, which in Utah comprises nearly 70 percent of Utah's total acreage, and they have been an integral part of the rural American landscape for over a hundred years. Congress created these rights-of-way in 1866; Secretary Babbitt is now attempting to eliminate, if not devalue, them in 1997. 
Let me set forth for my colleagues, in as brief a form as possible, the black letter principles applicable to this issue and why the disposition of this matter is so critical to those of us representing public lands States. 
As has been stated, Revised Statutes 2477 states, in its entirety:  
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That the right of way for the construction of highways over public lands, not reserved for public uses, is hereby granted. (8 of the Act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 253, later codified at 43 U.S.C. Sec. 932, repealed October 21, 1976.) 
In 1976, Congress adopted the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (FLPMA) that repealed these 26 words known as R.S. 2477. At the same time, Congress included language protecting these valid existing rights, thus making the actions of the Department of Interior after passage of FLPMA subject to those rights. FLPMA explicitly states this: 
Nothing in this Act, or in any amendment made by this Act, shall be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, right-of-way, or other land use right or authorization existing on the date of approval of this act * * * All actions by the Secretary concerned under this Act shall be subject to valid existing rights. (FLPMA 701 (a) and (h), 43 U.S.C. Sec. 1701 notes (a) and (h).) 
From 1938 until the repeal of R.S. 2477 
in 1976 by FLPMA, regulations published by the Department of Interior made it clear that the executive branch had no role to play in determining or regulating the validity or scope of R.S. 2477 rights-of-way. The regulations explicitly stated that: 
No application should be filed under R.S. 2477, as no action on the part of the Government is necessary. 43 C.F.R. 2822.1-1 (1972, emphasis added). 
They further provided that: 
Grants of rights-of-way referred to in the preceding section become effective upon the construction or establishment of highways, in accordance with the State laws, over public lands, not reserved for public uses. 43 C.F.R. 2822.2-1 (1972). 
In other words, the grant of a right-of-way was a unilateral offer that vested automatically upon an act of acceptance. A published Interior Department decision said essentially the same thing as early as 1938: 
This grant [R.S. 2477] becomes effective upon the construction or establishing of highways, in accordance with the State laws, over public lands not reserved for public uses. No application should be filed under this act, as no action on the part of the Federal Government is necessary.' (56 I.D. 533 (May 28, 1938).) 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased today to announce my strong support for S. 543, the Volunteer Protection Act. 
As the excitement surrounding today's events in Philadelphia have so poignantly illustrated, ours is a nation that has a particular dependence on the volunteer movement. Nonprofit organizations mobilize volunteers by drawing on their members' special talents to meet social or economic needs. Volunteer organizations are currently deeply involved in such activities as alleviating hunger, educating the public about the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse, providing care of the elderly and infirm, providing athletic programs for our Nation's youth, providing opportunity for the poor, building housing for the homeless, promoting literacy and education, finding missing children, teaching fire safety, aiding victims of natural disasters, providing moral education for our youth, and spreading American ideals across the world. In fact, according to a 1990 study by the Hudson Institute, which polled approximately 5,500 associations, volunteer time in America was conservatively estimated to total $3.3 billion per year. 
This is nothing new. In his 1835 commentary of our country, the epic `Democracy in America,' Alexis de Toqueville noted that America was a nation of joiners. To de Toqueville this was very significant. Nongovernmental charitable, religious, and community organizations combined with the family and other natural social units to form what he termed `intermediary' organizations--organizations that impede the trend toward centralization of virtually all administration in the national government. It is these intermediary groups that are essential in protecting the liberty of the individual and community from the regulatory state. 
In recent times, there has been an awareness of the need to strengthen volunteer organizations as a way to buttress the newly rediscovered virtues of limited government. Americans are coming to realize that government should not and cannot be relied on to provide all social services. The gap between American needs and American resources must be filled by the generous efforts of our volunteer corps. But the current litigation nightmare sweeping our Nation is going a long way to hinder the efforts of these important volunteers. This at a time when we must be doing everything possible to encourage the spirit of voluntarism. 
Mr. President, I'd like to illustrate for you a couple of reasons why I believe the litigious nature of our society is dampening the spirit of voluntarism. A Gallup study revealed the large extent to which the threat of lawsuits, and the prohibitive cost of liability 
insurance, have a negative effect on volunteer participation in charitable organizations. The survey found that nearly 20 percent of all nonprofit organizations in the United States have experienced volunteers withholding service or resigning due to fear of liability exposure. This figure represents a very significant portion of the volunteer community. Specifically, 1 in 10 nonprofit organizations have experienced the resignation of a volunteer due to liability concerns. Let's do the math--with approximately 600,000 nonprofit organizations in America, we know that 48,000 volunteers have been lost during the past few years strictly due to liability concerns. Additionally, one in six volunteers report withholding their services due to fear of exposure to liability suits. This means that 100,000 potential American volunteers have declined to serve due to fear of exposure to lawsuits. This is an extraordinary figure. 
Additionally, the rate voluntarism has been steadily declining in recent years. The percentage of Americans volunteering dropped from 54 percent in 1989 to 48 percent in 1993. Sadly, charitable donations are also declining, falling roughly $100 per household during this same short period. However, in 1991 alone, Americans spent a hefty $132 billion on the civil justice system. As a result, it is not surprising to note that liability insurance premiums for nonprofit organizations continue to rise. 
These figures demonstrate that the on-going litigation craze has seriously damaged the spirit of voluntarism. I would like to document several cases that stand out in particular: 
Lawyers for an injured mountain climber sued volunteer rescuers for $12 million on the grounds that their rescue methods were negligent and reckless. Prior to assisting this particular climber, the rescue team successfully and carefully made hundreds of rescues without incident. 
In February 1995, Cleighton Hall, then CEO of Little League Baseball, wrote in the Wall Street Journal that Little League had turned into `Litigation League.' In one instance, two youngsters collided in the outfield, picked themselves up, dusted themselves off, and sued their coach. In another instance, lawyers won a large cash settlement when their client was struck by a ball that a player failed to catch--that player, strangely enough, was the client's daughter. Finally, trial attorneys for a child in Runnymeade, NJ, filed suit against the youth's coach when he was struck by a flyball in center field. 
Finally, a boy in a scouting unit with the Boy Scouts of the Cascade Pacific Council suffered a paralyzing injury in a game of touch football. Several adults volunteered to supervise the trip. The youth's attorneys filed a personal injury suit alleging that the Boy Scouts and the volunteers were negligent for failing to supervise the youth adequately. The jury found that the volunteers were personally liable for $7 million. Oregon law ultimately caused the judgment to be reduced to around $4 million, but few Boy Scout volunteers can afford this kind of judgment. 
Anyone who has been a Boy Scout or has volunteered in any capacity knows that certain accidents are impossible to prevent. The basic problem is that the actions of this Nation's greedy trial lawyers are serving to undermine the positive effects of voluntarism. Clearly, Mr. President, the current situation cries out for reform. 
The Volunteer Protection Act helps charities and nonprofit organizations serve their communities by giving their volunteers immunity from lawsuits. Volunteers who act in a grossly negligent or incompetent manner are, of course, not be protected under the legislation. 
This bill will provide a volunteer protection from litigation in cases where, first, the volunteer was acting within the scope of the volunteer's responsibilities; second, the volunteer was properly licensed, certified, or authorized by the State in which the harm occurred, if such authorization is required; and third, the harm was not caused by willful or criminal misconduct, gross negligence, reckless misconduct, or a conscious, flagrant indifference to the rights or safety of the individual harmed by the volunteer. 
The bill also limits punitive damages that may be awarded against volunteers and nonprofit organizations based on harm caused by a volunteer acting within the scope of the volunteer's responsibilities. Punitive damages against any such defendant will be available only where the claimant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that the volunteer caused the harm through willful or criminal misconduct. 
Finally, while the bill preempts State law to the extent that it is inconsistent with the bill, the bill will not preempt any State laws that provide additional protections from liability relating to volunteers or nonprofit organizations. 
Mr. President, this bill is consistent with the overall thrust and punitive damages reforms of my bill, S. 79, the Civil Justice Fairness Act. I am proud to support it as another step in our march toward complete civil justice reform. 
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, Samuel Johnson said that `Adversity has ever been considered the state in which a man most easily becomes acquainted with himself.' 
On April 7, Arch L. Madsen, a remarkable broadcast pioneer, died at the age of 83 in Salt Lake City. Arch's contributions to the world of radio and television were made all the more noteworthy by the formidable personal challenges he overcame. In rising above adversity with the help of an extraordinary woman, his wife Peggy, Arch discovered the potential within himself that only she and God knew existed. 
The half-century public career of Arch Madsen is a matter of record. He was president of KSL radio and television stations, founder and president of the Bonneville International Corp. media empire, and an influential member of national and international bodies fighting for freedom of speech. He was appointed by President Reagan to the nine-member Board for International Broadcasting overseeing the operations of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. It was Arch's dream that truth carried on airwaves across the Iron Curtain would lead those on the other side finally to throw off the yoke of totalitarianism. He lived to see his dream fulfilled in Europe. 
For the inspiring story of Arch's private world we are indebted to his son, Erik H. Madsen, who spoke at the funeral on April 12. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970424</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the first thing I wish to express is my gratitude to the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and the Majority Leader for the work they have done in the final weeks to improve this resolution of ratification. 
The Chemical Weapons Convention before us is significantly better than what we faced last year. In addition, I wish to compliment both the Chairman and the Ranking Member of the Foreign Relations Committee for holding numerous hearings during the past month and for the way they have led the debate over the past two days. The duty of this body to advise and consent has never been more honorably met. 
This treaty, with the resolution of ratification, while now an acceptable treaty, is not the panacea for chemical weapons that some of the more adamant proponents have implied or suggested. It will not, in and of itself, spare our grandchildren from the horrors of chemical warfare. It will not, in and of itself, protect our citizens from terrorists intent on using chemical weapons. 
This Convention will not significantly reduce the threat of terrorism, Mr. President. Now that this debate is almost concluded, it would be of great benefit to the future of this agreement that everyone be realistic about this. The Administration and other proponents of this agreement recognized this when they stated in the resolution of ratification, condition 19 that: `The Senate finds that without regard to whether the Convention enters into force, terrorists will likely view chemical weapons as a means to gain greater publicity and instill widespread fear; and the March 1995 Tokyo subway attack by the Aum Shinrikyo would not have been prevented by the Convention.' 
Mr. President, I am greatly concerned about future terrorist threats to the citizens of this country, and I urge those who have suggested that this Convention will curb that threat to decease from such counterproductive rhetoric that could disastrously mislead us about future threats. 
In addition, I must note to the ardent proponents of the CWC that a number of nations will remain outside of this regime, and some of them have policies inimical to this nation's welfare and security. I have read the Convention, and I wish to state that I 
read Article XI, section (d) to mean that the U.S. is free to pursue any action--unilaterally or multilaterally--against nations having chemical weapons. Furthermore, I will insist on clarification indicating that current trade sanctions promoting U.S. national security, and supported by this body as well the executive, will not be infringed by this Treaty. 
The benefits of this Treaty will not nearly approach the rhetoric of some of its proponents. In my opinion, overblown rhetoric enhanced the possibility that this Treaty could have failed, as some of us studied the document and realized the great gap between the rhetoric and reality. 
The current resolution of ratification helps to close that gap. The conditions included in the resolution preserve the Senate's constitutional role in treaty-making, including approval of amendments to the CWC. Agreed conditions established standards for U.S. intelligence sharing, including requiring reports on such sharing. They limit the sharing of defensive capabilities under Article X. They clarify our position on the use of riot control agents in wartime circumstances, preserving for us that option along the lines originally intended by our negotiators under President Reagan. They require the President to report regularly on the threat of chemical weapons. 
Finally--and this is extremely important, Mr. President--the resolution of ratification requires criminal search warrants for challenge inspections against non-complying parties. 
I stress again, Mr. President, my gratitude to those, on both sides of the aisle as well as in the Clinton Administration, who negotiated this resolution. 
The letter the Majority Leader has obtained from President Clinton also helps close the gap between rhetoric and reality. The President recognizes, with this letter, that the Treaty may not guarantee the cessation of proliferation of these monstrous weapons and their precursors. He recognizes that, despite the goals of this document, our defenses against their possible use on our troops should not wane. He recognizes that we have a regime--the Australia Group--in place that has addressed the problem of illicit trade in chemicals and that that regime should not go by the wayside. 
With this letter, the President recognizes that if this Treaty is seen to be failing, we can and will exercise Article XVI, which defines how a State Party may withdraw from the CWC. 
Despite these improvements and assurances, Mr. President, I know that a number of thoughtful colleagues continue to have reservations about the effectiveness of this Treaty. And I wish to say that I respect their decisions, and I object to certain 
exceptional notions heard during the debate that opponents of this Treaty object because they are against all arms control treaties. I don't believe this to be the case at all. This Treaty has many practical limitations, and I believe that we should not impugn the motives of individuals who, at the end of the day, have great reservations over its benefits. 
I have supported many arms control agreements myself, Mr. President, but always after careful consideration of the strategic value as well as practical consequences of making so grave a commitment. And I must say that it has never been more difficult for me to determine the net worth of an arms control agreement as it has been for me regarding the Chemical Weapons Convention before us today. 
I have concluded that this treaty can advance our security, but only if Administration matches the rhetoric of arms control with the muscle of political will. Because, Mr. President, international norms without political will do not become norms. 
The benefits of treaties are measured on achievements, not intentions. If intentions were all that mattered, all treaties would be beneficial prima facie. By this standard, the Kellogg-Briand Treaty, which outlawed war, or the 1925 Geneva Convention Against the Use of Chemical Weapons, would have been rousing successes. History has proven that they were not. But, the success of treaties is measured in reality, not rhetoric. And the benefits of this Treaty are measured on a narrow margin. 
It is after a careful parsing of this margin, and much reflection, that I have determined that I will vote for the Chemical Weapons Convention. But I do so with the expectation that this Chief Executive, and subsequent ones, must be wholly dedicated to implementing this agreement in a way that advances U.S. security interests and protects U.S. domestic interests. 
Mr. President, this Treaty will give us some tools--inspections and other data collections--that will enhance our knowledge of the threat of chemical weapons. The information will not be comprehensive; it will not apply universally. But, if in collecting this information we reduce the possibility that our troops will face a chemical threat, then this is a tangible, defensible goal, for which anyone could support this Treaty. 
The United States has been a principal negotiator of this agreement, through Republican and Democratic administrations. To abandon it now would be to abdicate U.S. leadership. We are now burdened to support it and implement it. The goals are admirable. The bridge to achieving those goals, to bridging the gap between the idealistic rhetoric and the vexing reality, will be difficult. On that bridge, Mr. President, will ride the credibility of the United States, and, I believe, the credibility 
of future arms control. Past administrations have led in the establishment of this international norm. Future administrations will need to verify its legitimacy. President Clinton must carry through on his pledge for strict international compliance and for vigilence regarding threats by terrorists or renegade groups. 
Over 70 nations have ratified this Convention. Of course, we decided to unilaterally destroy our stockpile more than a decade ago, and we are proceeding as expeditiously as possible, restrained only by prudence regarding safety and the environment. We've known all along that our unilateral destruction plan was not contingent on the outcome of this debate. We determined these weapons were not militarily useful to us; our defense establishment can preserve and promote our national security without them. But as of the moment that our instrument of ratification is deposited, we will be the first of the countries with a large stockpile to ratify. The United States is leading. Will other nations follow? 
Mr. President, I wish to say a few words about Russia. With the consent of the Senate today, the Administration will be able to deposit the instrument of ratification before the April 29 deadline, allowing U.S. participation in the formation of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The U.S. and Russia are the only powers that voluntarily declare they have chemical weapons. On two occasions the Russians have joined us--in the 1990 Bilateral Destruction Agreement and under the 1989 Wyoming Memorandum--in bilateral commitments to expose and destroy our stockpiles. As those who have studied this question know, the record of Russian compliance is not good. As those who read the papers and get the briefings know, the Russian chemical arms capability is not stagnant. 
President Yeltsin has indicated that he wishes the Russian Duma to approve ratification before the April 29 deadline. I hope they do. The Russians need to join and participate in the initial construction of this regime. And we need to begin to inspect and expose all of our stockpiles. If the Russians are not part of this Treaty, Mr. President, this regime may be stillborn, because the largest stockpile of chemical weapons in the world exists in the Russian Federation. I hope we can work with the Russians as partners beginning next week. 
If the Senate gives its consent today, Mr. President, next week the hard work will begin. The success or failure of this regime will not be a function of depositing the instrument of ratification. It will be a function of implementing the agreement. I am supporting this Convention today because I think it can only succeed with U.S. participation--and leadership. It can fail for many reasons, including noncompliance or nonparticipation by nations around the world. But it won't succeed without U.S. leadership. 
Leadership will require more than idealistic promises. We must abandon the rhetoric of unattainable promises and commit to the reality of national interest. I fear the Administration will have a lot of work building the bridge between the rhetoric and reality. On that bridge lies the future of this Convention and the future of arms control.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation with Senators Conrad, Cochran, Gregg, Moseley-Braun, Enzi, Inouye, Baucus, Reid, D'Amato, Kyl, Ashcroft, Domenici, Hagel, Bond, Thomas, and Murkowski that would make permanent the current moratorium on the application of the pension nondiscrimination rules to State and local government pension plans. During the last Congress, I introduced similar legislation as S. 2047. And this year, a similar provision was included in S. 14, introduced by Senator Daschle. 
The current laws governing private pension plans contain specific rules aimed at ensuring that pension plans do not discriminate in favor of highly paid employees. For nearly 20 years, State and local government pension plans have been deemed to satisfy these complex nondiscrimination rules until Treasury can figure out how or if these rules are applicable to unique government pension plans. This bill simply puts an end to this stalled process and dispels two decades of uncertainty for administrators of State and local government retirement plans. Let me summarize the evolution of this issue and why this bill is being introduced today. 
Mr. President, the Federal Government has long ago established a policy of encouraging tax-deferred retirement savings. Most retirement plans that benefit employees are employer-sponsored tax-deferred retirement plans. Over the years, Congress has required that these plans meet strict nondiscrimination standards designed to ensure that they do not provide disproportionate benefits to business owners, officers, or highly compensated individuals relative to other employees. 
In response to the growing popularity of employer-sponsored tax-deferred pension plans, Congress passed the Employee Retirement Income Security Act [ERISA] in 1974 to enhance the rules governing pension plans. However, during consideration of ERISA, Congress recognized that nondiscrimination rules for private pension plans were not readily applicable to public pension plans because of the unique nature of governmental employers. Former Representative Al Ullman stated, during Ways and Means Committee consideration of ERISA, that Congress was not prepared to apply nondiscrimination rules to public plans, saying that: 
The committee exempted Government plans from the new higher requirements because adequate information is not now available to permit a full understanding of the impact these new requirements would have on governmental plans. 
After studying the issue, the Internal Revenue Service on August 10, 1977, issued News Release IR-1869, which stated that issues concerning discrimination under State and 
local government retirement plans would not be raised until further notice. Thus, an indefinite moratorium was placed on the application of the new rules to government plans. 
In 1986, Congress passed the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which made further changes to pension laws and the general nondiscrimination rules. On May 18, 1989, the Department of the Treasury, in proposed regulations, lifted the 12-year public sector moratorium and required that public sector plans comply with the new rules immediately. However, further examination revealed, and Treasury and the IRS recognized, that a separate set of rules was required for State and local government plans because of their unique features. 
Consequently, through final rules issued in September 1991, the Treasury reestablished the moratorium on a temporary basis until January 1, 1993, and solicited comments for consideration. In addition, State and local government pension plans were deemed to satisfy the statutory nondiscrimination requirements for years prior to 1993. Since then, the moratorium has been extended three more times, the latest of which is in effect until 1999. 
Mr. President, here we are, in April 1997, 23 years since the passage of ERISA, and State and local government pension plans are still living under the shadow of having to comply with the cumbersome, costly, and complex nondiscrimination rules. Experience over the past 20 years has shown that the existing nondiscrimination rules have limited utility in the public sector. Furthermore, the long delay in action illustrates the seriousness of the problem and the doubtful issuance of nondiscrimination regulations by the Department of the Treasury. 
Mr. President, during consideration of another extension of the moratorium, a coalition of associations representative of State and local governmental plans summarized their current position in a letter to IRS Commissioner Margaret Richardson dated October 13, 1995.  
In our discussions with Treasury over the past two years, there have been no abuses or even significant concerns identified that would warrant the imposition of such a cumbersome thicket of federal rules on public plans that already are the subject of State and local government regulation. 
Accordingly, while we always remain open to further discussion, as our Ways and Means statement indicates, the experience of the past two years in working with Treasury to develop a sensible and workable set of nondiscrimination rules for governmental plans has convinced us that the task ultimately is a futile one--portending tremendous cost, complexity, and disruption of sovereign State operations in the absence of any identifiable problem. 
Mr. President, the sensible conclusion of this 20-year exercise is to admit that the Treasury is not likely to issue regulations for State and local pension plans and Congress should make the temporary moratorium permanent. 
Furthermore, there are examples to support this legislation. Relief from the pension nondiscrimination rules is not a new concept. In reality, Mr. President, State and local 
government pension plans face a higher level of scrutiny. State law generally requires publicly elected legislators to amend the provisions of a public plan. Electoral accountability to the voters and media scrutiny serve as protections against abusive and discriminatory benefits. 
Moreover, precedent exists for Congress to grant relief from the nondiscrimination rules. In 1986, the Congress established the Thrift Savings Fund for Federal employees. As originally enacted, the fund was required to comply with the 401(k) nondiscrimination rules on employee contributions and matching contributions to the fund. However, in 1987, as part of a Continuing Appropriations Act for 1988, the Congress passed a provision that made these nondiscrimination rules inapplicable to the Federal Thrift Savings Fund. Thus, Congress has reaffirmed the need to treat governmental pension plans as unique. 
Mr. President, this legislation is not sweeping, nor does it grant any new treatment to these plans. Because of the moratorium, governmental plans are currently treated as satisfying the nondiscrimination rules. Lifting the moratorium would impose on governmental pension plans the cost task of testing for discrimination when no significant abuses or concerns exist. In fact, finally imposing the nondiscrimination rules at this juncture may require benefits to be reduced for State and local government employees and force costly modifications to these retirement plans. This legislation coincides with the principle of allowing a State to enjoy the right to determine the compensation of its employees. 
Mr. President, with another expiration of the moratorium looming in the future, I believe it is time to address this issue. I have no illusion that it will be resolved quickly. The complexities of these rules and the uniqueness of governmental plans have brought us to where we are today. I believe that, as Senators better understand the history of this issue, they will agree with us that the appropriate step is to end this uncertainty and make the temporary moratorium permanent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I compliment the distinguished Senator from Oregon and Ms. Shea for doing this historic and unprecedented resolution. This is a beautiful dog, Ms. Shea, and we are proud to have you on the floor of the U.S. Senate and proud to have your dog here as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent I be permitted to proceed as in morning business for 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I hoped to come to the floor today to deliver a statement commending the Attorney General for her courageous decision to do the right thing and request the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate the fundraising violations in connection with the 1996 Presidential election. Regrettably, I am here today for a much different reason, to express disappointment and frustration with her refusal to even initiate an independent counsel's appointment. 
I appreciate the fact that the Attorney General is under enormous pressure from the White House, the Congress, the media, and the public, and that she is in a very unenviable position. I have respect and admiration for the Attorney General, but her refusal to do what the law permits and indeed requires her to do, frankly, does not engender respect or admiration in this instance. 
The Clinton administration and the Department of Justice is trying to cast her decision as a legal decision when, in fact, it is a decision within her power, and in my opinion, one which she is ethically obliged to make. 
As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which, pursuant to its statutory responsibilities requested 33 days ago that the Attorney General apply for the appointment of an independent counsel, I am compelled to respond to what can only be characterized as her inadequate response. In all candor, the substance of the Attorney General's report is vague, ambiguous at best, and at times, legally disingenuous. Especially in light of the fact that the committee requested she evaluate and report on `all of the information before her,' not just a few isolated allegations, the Attorney General's report also is incomplete, and in a rather selective way at that. 
A judge in a court of law would recognize the Attorney General's report as a defense brief, too clever by a half, carefully and zealously crafted to serve a client's interest. But the Attorney General's client here is not the President of the United States or her political party, it is the public. And the public's confidence that this investigation will be fair, as thorough, and as tough as any other, altogether untainted by political considerations, has not been fulfilled. I am afraid this client, the public, has been disserved. 
Given the evasiveness of the Attorney General's report, together with the delay in its transmission and the fact that as the Attorney General herself admits, `much has been discovered,' since the committee sent its letter, I have little choice but to conclude that much to my disappointment, the Attorney General did not receive our request with a mind fully open to doing what is plainly in our Nation's best interests. 
Before responding to the Attorney General's report in more detail, I feel I should briefly review what the independent statute provides for. An independent counsel can be triggered in one of two ways: Where there is sufficient information to investigate whether any person `covered' by the statute may have violated Federal law; or where an investigation of someone else who may have violated the law may result in a political or other conflict of interest. It is that simple. 
Let me talk, No. 1, about the mandatory trigger of that legislation. With respect to the first, the mandatory trigger where `covered individuals' are at issue, the Attorney General's report does little but make reference to legal `factors that must be considered,' and then repeatedly draws the summary conclusion that she does not have specific and credible evidence that a covered individual may have violated the law. Despite the White House's characterization of the Attorney General's decision as simply `applying the law to the facts,' there is virtually no application of the pertinent law to the pertinent facts actually before the public, let alone the facts before the Attorney General. 
While the statute requires the Attorney General to set forth the reasons for her decisions with respect to each matter before her, in my view she has utterly failed to do so here. To illustrate just a few examples of the inadequacy of the Attorney General's response, let me point out that she fails to specifically explain why an independent counsel is not warranted to further investigate the abundant evidence that covered individuals made extensive and deliberate use of Federal property and resources for campaign purposes including, for example, the Lincoln bedroom, and other areas of the White House, Air Force One, and a computer database costing the taxpayers $1.7 million. 
An authority higher than me and more independent than the Attorney General needs to determine the scope of the various laws implicated by this conduct and whether any of the laws were violated. The Attorney General's somewhat evasive approach to this entire matter is aptly illustrated by her argument that the use of the Government telephone does not constitute conversion of Government property. I am sure it does not. But as the Attorney General knows all too well, that is beside the point. The allegations of misuse of Government property are not based on phone calls. 
Mr. President, the Attorneys General's evasive approach to this entire matter is aptly illustrated by her argument that the use of the Government telephone does not constitute conversion of Government property. I am sure it does not. But, as the Attorney General knows all too well, that is beside the point: The allegations of misuse of Government property are not based on phone calls, but on the diversion of resources, such as the White House, Air Force One, and the White House database for campaign purposes, while phone solicitations were not alleged to have violated the conversion laws, but rather the prohibition on solicitations from Federal property. The conclusion I cannot help but draw here is that, however involved the Attorney General's career staff was in preparing this letter, in the end, it was her political advisers who had the last word. 
In short, the Attorneys General's carefully finessed and, in some cases, deliberately irrelevant legal arguments, combined with her summary conclusions that there is no specific, credible evidence that a covered individual may have violated the law, hardly persuades one that an independent counsel is not mandated under the statute or, for that matter that the question has been given a genuinely thorough and candid evaluation. 
Perhaps more fundamental, though, is the Attorney General's altogether inadequate explanation as to why she will not request an independent counsel pursuant to the second statutory trigger --to avoid a conflict of interest. Here the test is quite simple: If the Attorney General is presented with a conflict of interest in investigating whether any individuals may have violated the law, she has the discretion to proceed with the appointment of an independent counsel. Try as the White House and the Attorney General might to cast this as a narrow and technical legal question, it is anything but that; it is an ethical one requiring sensitive judgment as to what is necessary to ensure the public's confidence that an investigation can be supervised by the Attorney General and completed in a thorough and impartial manner. 
In the past, the Attorney General has had a rather broad view of what is necessary to protect the public's confidence that an investigation is not compromised by any perception of a conflict of interest. In her Whitewater independent counsel request, for example, Attorney General Reno concluded that an independent counsel was required because her investigation would involve an investigation of James McDougal and `other individuals associated with the President and Mrs. Clinton' would amount to a conflict of interest. It was that simple. In her referral of the Nussbaum perjury allegation to the independent counsel, the Attorney General concluded that a conflict of interest existed because the investigation `will involve an inquiry into statements allegedly made by a former senior member of the White House staff.' It was that simple. And, testifying before Congress in 1993, Ms. Reno stated that the Iran-Contra investigation `could not have been conducted under the supervision of the Attorney General and concluded with any public confidence in its thoroughness or impartiality.' It was that simple. 
Indeed, the Attorney General's testimony at that time thoroughly explained her rather strong view that even the slightest appearance of a conflict of interest should at all costs be avoided by the appointment of an independent counsel. It was that simple. She testified:  
There is an inherent conflict of interest whenever senior Executive Branch officials are to be investigated by the Department of Justice and its appointed head, the Attorney General. The Attorney General serves at the pleasure of the President. Recognition of this conflict does not belittle or demean the impressive professionalism of the Department's career prosecutors, nor does it question the integrity of the Attorney General and his or her political appointees. Instead, it recognizes the importance of public confidence in our system of justice, and the destructive effect in a free democracy of public cynicism. 
Attorney General Reno further testified: 
It is absolutely essential for the public to have confidence in the system, and you cannot do that when there is a conflict or an appearance of conflict in the person who is, in effect, the chief prosecutor. . .. The Independent Counsel Act was designed to avoid even the appearance of impropriety in the consideration of allegations of misconduct by high-level Executive Branch officials and to prevent. . . the actual or perceived conflicts of interest. The Act thus served as a vehicle to further the public's perception of fairness and thoroughness in such matters and to avert even the most subtle influences that may appear in an investigation of highly placed Executive officials. 
Now, in her report to the Judiciary Committee, however, the Attorney General adopts a far narrower view of when an independent counsel is called for. Suddenly, the conflict of interest provision has become a complicated legal threshold which `should be invoked only in certain narrow circumstances.' That is on page 3 of the letter to me. Directly contradicting her own public statements that it is impossible for the public to have confidence in an investigation where there is a `conflict or an appearance of conflict in the person who is, in effect, the chief prosecutor,' now the Attorney General claims that her discretion is limited only to situations where there is an actual conflict of interest. Quite frankly, the Attorney General's efforts to distance herself from her 1993 testimony require her to render a rather creative reading of her own testimony. 
Allow me to suggest that, to the extent an independent counsel was called for to ensure public confidence in an investigation of Mr. North, Mr. Nussbaum or Mr. McDougal and his associates, one certainly is called for here. If the Attorney General has adopted a new standard for evaluating when an independent counsel is necessary to ensure the public's confidence in an investigation, she should state as much and explain the basis for her new position. 
Although the Attorney General does not say as much in her letter, one can only surmise that her position is that First, there is no conflict of interest in continuing to investigate any of the individuals already under investigation, that is, Huang, Riady, Trie, Kanchanalak, John H.K. Lee, the Wiriadinatas, Charles DeQueljoe, Mark Middleton and Webster Hubbell, and second, that there is no basis for investigating whether other high-ranking officials may have violated the law. Since General Reno fails to explain her reasoning, let's step back for a moment and review some of the facts here to determine whether either of these apparent positions can really be defended. 
Take Mr. John Huang, the former Lippo executive whom the Riady's are widely reported to have bragged was placed in the Clinton Administration in exchange for generous donations by the Riady family, whose ties to the Clintons date back to Little Rock in the 1980's. See, for example, the New York Times, October 7, 1996. Recall that the Lippo Group, Huang's former employer, is connected to a far-reaching network of seriously questionable activities, directly implicating not just the Riadys and Huang, but the other individuals that figure in this troubling scandal, including Charlie Trie, Pauline Kanchanalak, Soraya Wiriadinata, C.J. Giroir, Mark Middleton, Mark Grobmeyer, Wang Jun, Charles DeQueljoe, and even Webster Hubbell. Since the Department is already investigating Huang, there plainly are sufficient grounds to investigate whether he may have violated federal law. In declining to invoke the discretionary conflict of interest trigger, the Attorney General's position, therefore, must be that there is no potential conflict of interest in her investigating Huang. 
Let's take a look at some of this. This is the `Lippo Group, an Overview.' 
John Huang was a former Lippo executive in the United States. He had a $780,000 severance package before he went to work for the Government. By the way, before he went to work for the Government, for 5 months he had a security clearance given him by this administration. There is a question whether that was legal; a former Commerce official, multiple contacts with Lippo during that time; former DNC vice chairman; raised more than $3.4 million; $1.6 million is to be returned; and, he visited the White House more than 75 times. 
C.J. Giroir, a Lippo Joint Venture person, and a former Rose Law Firm attorney, met with James Riady, President Clinton, and Lindsey on Huang on his move to the DNC. He donated $25,000 to the DNC. 
Mark Middleton, former White House aide from Little Rock, met with James Riady and President Clinton; has Far East business interests; unlimited access to the White House after his departure. 
Charlie Trie, Little Rock restaurateur, had a $60,000 loan from Lippo; former Lippo executive; arranged with a former Lippo executive Antonio Pan, a Hong Kong dinner for Ron Brown; attempted to give more than $600,000 to the Clinton's legal expense trust; visited the White House at least 27 times. 
I can go through all of these other people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let's just take a look at the specific, credible evidence that has surfaced to date. Huang, who received a severance package from Lippo of $788,750 is reported to have: 
Received a top secret security clearance that could have allowed him to review classified intelligence documents, for 5 months while still employed by the Lippo Group, and before he joined the Commerce Department, all after a lax security check that was limited to his activities in the United States; 
Made at least 78 visits to the White House during his 18 months at the Commerce Department; 
Received 37 intelligence briefings on issues relating to China, Vietnam, and other matters of potential interest to Lippo; 
Made more than 70 calls to a Lippo-controlled bank; and received at least 70 calls; 39 classified, top-secret briefings; 30 phone conversations with Mark Middleton; 9 phone calls from Webster Hubbell; received at least 9 calls from the Chinese Embassy officials. He had at least three meetings with Chinese Government officials. He had a 1-year top secret clearance after leaving Commerce after he joined the Democratic National Committee. You wonder why national security interests were compromised and why information was given to the DNC. 
Like I say, he had 30-plus phone conversations with Mark Middleton or his associates. All of them had interests--at least I understand had interests--in the Far East. 
He had his transfer to the DNC orchestrated at a curious September 13, 1995, Oval Office meeting attended by the President, Bruce Lindsey, James Riady, and Lippo joint venture partner and former Rose law partner, Joseph Giroir; 
Raised over $3.4 million while at the DNC--money used to reelect the President--retaining his top secret security clearance even though he was no longer working for the U.S. Government; and had $1.6 million of that $3.4 million used to reelect the President returned because of its suspicious sources. 
As we now know, John Huang has taken the fifth amendment, or has asserted the fifth amendment, while the Riadys have not only taken the fifth but they fled the country. Doesn't an investigation of Huang, so close to those who are covered by the statute, and the Riadys, so close to those who are covered by the statute who, like the McDougals, are political supporters and `individuals associated with the President,'--to use the Attorney General's language of the past--doesn't that raise a conflict of interest? 
It isn't just John Huang. Here are some examples of illegal funds raised by Huang: The Wiriadinatas, $450,000. They have returned to Indonesia. All funds are supposed to have been returned by the DNC. I am not sure that is true. 
Pauline Kanchanalak gave $253,000. She left the country. She is now in Thailand. Allegedly all of that $250,000 has been returned by the DNC. I am not so sure. 
Mr. Gandhi gave $250,000; testified he had no assets. How could he give $250,000? All of those funds are supposed to have been returned by the DNC. I am not so sure about that either. 
John H.K. Lee. He gave $250,000. He has disappeared. And those funds were supposed to be returned by the DNC. I am not so sure they have done it. 
Then Hsi Lai Buddhist Temple, $166,750 raised there. The temple residents, many of whom gave part of this money, were people who had taken a vow of poverty and had no money to give. Is there no illegality there; nothing to raise a possibility that something may be wrong here which is what the statute basically says? Supposedly $74,000 of that was returned by the DNC. You mean these things aren't wrong and illegal? You mean there is no conflict of interest here at all? If all you do is look at Huang, you have to say there is something wrong here. 
Then there is Mr. Charles Trie. Trie is a former Little Rock restaurateur, and reportedly a longtime friend of President Clinton who now runs an international trading company in Little Rock, AR. Mr. Trie has also asserted the fifth amendment and has even fled the country, along with these others. 
He is a business partner with Ng Lap Seng, a Chinese Government official. He received a $60,000 loan from the Lippo Group. He raised $645,000 in questionable funds which have been returned by the DNC. He raised $639,000 for the Clinton `Legal Defense Fund,' which was returned because the source of the money could not be identified; or the sources of the moneys could not be identified. 
He was during this period receiving wire transfers of very large sums from the Bank of China, owned by the Chinese Government. 
He visited the White House 37 times. 
He escorted Mr. Wang Jun, a Chinese arms merchant, to a White House coffee last year, which, when revealed, was described by the President as `inappropriate.' 
He wrote the President in March 1996 to question his decision to deploy aircraft carriers to the Taiwan straits when the Chinese test-fired missiles in Taiwan's direction, receiving a personal letter back from the President assuring Trie that the United States only wanted peace in the region; arranged a Hong Kong dinner for former Commerce Secretary Ron Brown; and, finally, was formally appointed to a Presidential Commission on Asian Trade in April 1996. 
To the extent there was a conflict of interest preventing public confidence in the Justice Department's investigation of Oliver North or James McDougal, certainly the same conflict exists with respect to an investigation of Huang, the Riadys, and Trie, not to mention the handful of other individuals who have taken or will assert the fifth amendment, fled the country, or done both, including Pauline Kanchanalak, Arief and Soraya Wiriadanata, John H.K. Lee, and Charles DeQueljoe. Frankly, there is even more of a conflict here. 
Moreover, it has become clear that there is specific, credible information providing sufficient grounds to investigate whether various high-ranking members of the administration may have known of, or conspired in, any of these apparent fundraising violations. Indeed, we now know from the Ickes files that the decision to transfer Huang from the Commerce Department to his fundraising role in the DNC was made at the September 13, 1995, Oval Office meeting which included not just Huang, James Riady, and Lippo Joint Venture Partner and former Rose Law Partner Joseph Giroir, but Bruce Lindsey--who seems to pop up in all of these instances--and President Clinton himself, and that a participant at this Oval Office meeting reportedly recommended that the President `reassign Huang from his Government job to a political fund-raising job, where he could extract contributions for favors done and favors yet to come.' The New York Times, March 5, 1997. Mr. Ickes' notes expressly indicate that Huang had specifically targeted `overseas Chinese.' And it has been reported how this decision to transfer Huang to the DNC, made at that September 13, 1995, Oval Office meeting, was directly linked to a plan, agreed to just days earlier by the President, Dick Morris, Harold Ickes, and others, to raise funds to wage a preemptive television ad campaign. See New York Times, April 14, 1997. In short, isn't there sufficient information at least to investigate whether any of these top-level White House advisers were aware of or involved in Huang's and the Riady's far-reaching scheme to launder foreign funds into Democratic campaign coffers? Does the Attorney General expect the public to have confidence that she can thoroughly and dispassionately investigate individuals among the President's closest advisers without any conflict? 
Similarly, there is now a wealth of information documenting the extensive involvement from the President down through Mr. Ickes and other White House advisers in the plans, discussed earlier, to use the Lincoln bedroom, the White House, Air Force One, and the White House's computer database to further campaign purposes, and that campaign contributions were received at the White House. The Attorney General claims she is `actively investigating' whether laws were violated. Doesn't this investigation of these high-level White House advisers, even if not covered individuals, present a conflict at least as great as the conflict that apparently existed with regard to the investigations of Mr. North and Mr. McDougal? 
How can one say that there is no conflict when the FBI and White House are publicly squabbling over whether the White House should receive information about the investigation, and the Attorney General is smack in the middle of this squabble; when the White House falsely accuses the FBI of telling the National Security Council staff not to pass on information regarding Chinese attempts to illegally influence United States policymakers? 
Indeed, the very fact that the FBI, an agency within the Justice Department, refused to produce this information to the White House on the eve of Secretary Albright's visit to China clearly suggests that the investigation has already reached high up into the White House. It is curious, to say the least, that the Department of Justice leaked its decision to the press over the weekend, but it did not actually notify the Judiciary Committee of its decision until 6:30 last night, 2 days after this letter was due. Furthermore, the Acting Deputy Attorney General's assertion that the fact that both Judiciary Committees have made a formal request would emphatically not have any impact on their decision suggests to me that the Justice Department is in a defense mode. 
In short, I think there is little doubt there is at the very least a potential conflict of interest in having the Justice Department investigate these matters. The administration should not be investigating itself, it is just as simple as that, as long as we have an independent counsel statute. Simply claiming to defer to career Justice Department officials will not do. Would the public accept a Member of Congress not recusing himself or herself from a particular matter on which he or she had a major conflict of interest because staff recommended they not recuse themselves? Would the public accept a judge's refusal to recuse himself or herself in the face of a conflict because a clerk advised against it? 
The fact is that the DNC, the Democratic National Committee, has simply, on the basis of its own audit, already identified over $3 million in improper contributions, violations of law, if you will. A significant portion of this illicit money has not even been returned yet, only confirming that this $3 million has already been spent, spent to reelect President Clinton. 
We have people calling for campaign finance reform on this floor. Why don't we enforce the campaign finance laws that are already on the books. That is what this is all about, in part, I have to tell you. Three million dollars in illegal funds, illicit funds spent to reelect the President, already spent. I wonder how Candidate Dole feels about that. 
The need for an independent counsel is not merely a matter of applying the law to the facts. The chorus we are now hearing from the President's press secretary and the Democratic apologists would seem to indicate that that is so when in fact it is not. In my opinion, Attorney General Reno was presented with an ethical question, a question ultimately of whether the public can have confidence in this investigation, whether the public can have confidence in this Justice Department, and whether the public can have confidence in the Clinton administration itself. Make no mistake about it. Attorney General Reno's decision yesterday was a significant political event, one which, much to my regret, will subject her to serious and I think justified criticism. This is not a happy day for the Department of Justice or for the public confidence in our system of justice. By continuing to permit what certainly appears to be a very serious conflict of interest, the Attorney General regrettably has, to use her own words, brought upon the Nation `the destructive effect in a free democracy of public cynicism.' 
I yield the floor. I thank the Chair.  
Mr. DURBIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I appreciate my colleague yielding. 
Let us just make it clear to my colleague that this chairman of the Judiciary Committee and Chairman Hyde over in the House, when many people were calling for us to send her a letter, delayed and delayed, giving the Attorney General a lot of time, nor have we been calling improperly for her to act in any way other than properly. But it will be interesting for people to know that we had scheduled our oversight hearing for May 20 for the Attorney General to come in and to be examined by the Judiciary Committee. I think for the information of everybody who is here, she has agreed to come earlier than that, within the next 3 weeks, probably in the first week of May, and at that time she will have to justify this decision. 
I think it is also safe to point out that I have been a very strong supporter of the Attorney General and still care for her a great deal. I do not like to see her subjected to this, but this is, to my knowledge, the first time that the letters from thoughtful chairmen and all the Republicans on both sides of the Judiciary Committee have been rejected and I think under much more stringent circumstances than independent counsel she has granted in the past. 
So I personally hope she can assert why she has not decided to at least conduct a preliminary investigation which would have triggered another 90 days to do this. I suggested to her and to the Justice Department that she do that. 
I also do not accept the--I am sorry; I will not take much longer. I do not accept her assertion that she is relying on professional staff members. 
Now, I have a lot of confidence in the professional staff members down there, but this involves a lot more than that and, frankly, involves just how this statute is going to be applied. 
When the time comes to reconsider this statute, I will be very interested in working with the distinguished Senator from Illinois and others to make sure that, if we are going to have a statute like this, let us have it so it works, and, frankly, I have qualms about having it at all. But since we do have it and since it does have these two main methods of triggering the call for an independent counsel and the appointment of an independent counsel, I have to say I am sadly disappointed that she has not chosen to do that under these circumstances. But I do understand my colleague at this hour rising to defend Attorney General Reno. I am not attacking her personally. I am just attacking what has been done here, and I think it should have been done before. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield for just 90 seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would like to say this in response. I just spent 30 minutes laying out some of the evidence that I think clearly shows the grounds for further investigation. The question is how can the Attorney General continue this investigation within the Department without a conflict of interest? I do not think she can. Again, I will cite her testimony back in 1993. 
She had a strong view that even the slightest appearance of a conflict of interests should, at all costs, be avoided by the independent counsel. She said this: 
. . . there is an inherent conflict of interest whenever senior Executive Branch officials are to be investigated by the Department of Justice and its appointed head, the Attorney General. The Attorney General serves at the pleasure of the President. Recognition of this conflict does not belittle or demean the impressive professionalism of the Department's career prosecutors, nor does it question the integrity of the Attorney General and his or her political appointees. Instead, it recognizes the importance of public confidence in our system of justice, and the destructive effect in a free democracy of public cynicism. 
She further testified that: 
It is absolutely essential for the public to have confidence in the system and you cannot do that when there is conflict or an appearance of conflict in the person who is, in effect, the chief prosecutor. . . . The Independent Counsel Act as designed to avoid even the appearance of impropriety in the consideration of allegations of misconduct by high-level Executive Branch officials and to prevent . . . the actual or perceived conflicts of interest. The Act thus served as a vehicle to further the public's perception of fairness and thoroughness in such matters, and to avert even the most subtle influences that may appear in an investigation of highly-placed Executive officials. 
I really believe that the case has been made here. And, although I still have very fond feelings toward the Attorney General, I think she has made a tragic error. And I believe that this is not going to end it. In the end, I think we would have been a lot farther down the road had she applied for the appointment of an independent counsel. 
Be that as it may, these remarks had to be made because they are important. Either we are going to have a statute or we are not. As I have said, I have never been a strong supporter of this statute. But it is there and it has been used in prior administrations. It has been used in this administration. And this case, it seems to me, is even more overwhelming than some of the prior cases where it has been used. 
I yield the floor, and I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have introduced legislation to make a technical correction to the provision of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, which provided a limited exception to the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act, allowing U.S. courts to hear claims by American victims of foreign terrorism against the lawless governments that sponsored the terrorist act. I am pleased to be joined by Senator Mack, Senator Kennedy, Senator D'Amato, and Senator Moynihan in introducing this bill. 
Nearly a year ago, when we passed the landmark Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, Congress took the important step of ensuring that Americans who are harmed by foreign governments committing or directing terrorists acts can sue those governments in American courts. Congress did this by amending the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act, which generally bars claims against foreign governments, to provide that the FSIA does not preempt claims for personal injury or death by the victims and survivors of terrorist acts committed by certified terrorist states. Thus, lawless nations no longer are able to hide their terrorist acts behind the rules of international law that they otherwise flaunt. 
It has come to our attention, however, that a particular phrase in this law puts at risk, for a small class of intended claimants, the right to be heard in court. 
As enacted, the law provides that a claim must be dismissed if `the claimant or the victim was not a national of the United States' when the terrorist act occurred. There is substantial concern that this phrase may be interpreted by the courts to require that both the victim and the claimant be U.S. nationals. As a result, several American claimants against Libya for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 could be barred from bringing an action because their spouses, who were killed in the attack, were British subjects. 
Notably, the amendment to the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act was not intended by Congress to preclude its application in such circumstances. Rather, all that was intended was that either the victim or the claimant be U.S. a national in order for foreign sovereign immunity not to apply, permitting a claim to go forward. 
The legislation we are introducing today corrects this ambiguity, by amending the law to apply foreign sovereign immunity, and thus bar the claim if `neither the claimant nor the victim was a national of the United States.' It is only right that we should do this. 
Companion legislation, H.R. 1225, has been introduced in the other body by Representatives Hyde and Conyers, the distinguished chairman and ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee. It is my hope that my colleagues will join us in a bipartisan effort to pass this legislation quickly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, there will be a hearing held by the Subcommittee on Immigration, Senate Committee on the Judiciary, on Tuesday, April 15, 1997, at 10:30 a.m., in room 226, Senate Dirksen Building, on immigrant entrepreneurs, job creation, and the American dream. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, there will be a hearing held by the Subcommittee on Immigration, Senate Committee on the Judiciary, on Tuesday, April 15, 1997, at 10:30 a.m., in room 226, Senate Dirksen Building, on `Immigrant Entrepreneurs, Job Creation, and the American Dream.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970408</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today, Senator Kennedy, I, and a number of others, are introducing the Hatch-Kennedy child health insurance and lower deficit bill, or the CHILD Act, S. 525. We will also introduce a companion measure, S. 526, which contains a tobacco excise tax increase to pay for the program established in the CHILD bill. 
The CHILD bill has been negotiated over a long period of time in intensive and sometimes heated negotiations. As anybody can understand, it is difficult to get the two sides together on matters like this. So we have worked very, very hard to try and bring both sides together. 
It is no secret that Senator Kennedy and I have worked together in the past. And, we have fought each other in the past. But today is a time of unity, for I believe we have written a bill that really makes sense, a bill that will work and that will help one of the most vulnerable segments of our society, children without health insurance. 
Of the 40 million people who are uninsured in this country, 10 million of them are children. Of those 10 million, about 3 million do qualify for Medicaid, but are not enrolled. 
While it has its problems, Medicaid is an excellent program overall, a program that does assist the poorest of the poor children and families. But those above the Medicaid eligibility poverty levels, comprise about 7 million children, most of whom are often called the near poor, or the working poor. 
Mr. President, as a recent study has made abundantly clear, about one out of three children in this country lacks health insurance. It is a pathetic situation. 
As my colleagues are aware, Senator Kennedy and Senator Kerry introduced a bill last year which addressed the child health insurance problem from a considerably different perspective than the bill we are finally going to introduce today. 
I think it is important to point out the differences for the edification of my colleagues. 
The bill we will file today is a bill that is a straight block grant to the States. The States have flexibility to determine their own eligibility standards with minimal Federal requirements. 
The proposal is not an entitlement program. It is a fully funded program. It is a 5-year authorization. 
The mechanism for funding the CHILD program authorization is an increase in the tobacco excise tax, amounting to 43 cents per package for cigarettes and proportionate increases on other tobacco products. Some have analogized this to a user fee on those who use tobacco products. 
We think this excise tax is justified. In 1955, a package of cigarettes cost about 23 cents. Of that amount, 8 cents consisted of a Federal excise tax on the cigarettes. 
Today, a package of cigarettes costs almost $2, at least $1.82 in most States, but we have only a 24-cent Federal excise tax on the utilization of those cigarettes. 
We think this provision is also justified from a public health perspective. 
Smoking is the largest preventable cause of premature death in the United States. 
Thirty percent of all cancer patients develop their diseases from smoking. Almost all lung cancer comes from smoking. And much of the cardiovascular disease that we have in our society comes from smoking--including passive smoking as well. 
It should be no secret to my colleagues that it was a difficult decision for me to submit a bill which will increase taxes, but after considerable study I concluded in this case it is a just and a right thing to do. 
And if we increase the cigarette tax by 43 cents, we will still be below the percentage the excise tax was back in 1955 when a package of cigarettes cost 23 cents and the excise tax was 8 cents of that. 
It is important to note that two-thirds of the revenue raised 
from this bill over the next 5 years will be used for the new child health insurance. The States will be able to negotiate with private health insurance companies to provide coverage, and they will be able to utilize the community health centers which are giving low-cost but high-quality health care in America today. 
I am one of the strongest advocate for community health centers, and, I must say, they have done a superlative job of delivering health care in general in our society. 
In Utah, we have what is known as the Caring Foundation. For every dollar we raise in charity, Blue Cross/Blue Shield matches that dollar with $1, making $2 for child health insurance. I believe that can be duplicated across this country in the best interest of children and families. 
When someone inquires about why I am sponsoring the CHILD Act, my thoughts turn to scores of constituents who have brought their concerns about the cost and availability of health insurance to my attention. 
It is heart rending to me when I have uninsured families come into my office--many of whom are young and who have children. These families are frantic; they don't know where to turn when a child gets sick. 
Two young women from Provo in my home State came in to visit me recently. Both had six children. They both work part time. Their husbands work full time, but neither family makes more than $20,000 a year. They are hard-working people. They are the working people of our society who are the poorest of the poor not on Medicaid, who cannot afford health insurance and, frankly, who do not know where to turn. 
I think that it behooves us to solve this problem for them, and the best way to do it is with a straight block grant to the States. 
The grant approach has a lot of benefits. There should be minimal new bureaucracy, because the IRS already collects excise taxes on cigarettes. There should be minimal bureaucracy because HHS will distribute the funds based on a simple formula reflecting the number of uninsured in a State. 
We provide a safeguard so there is no incentive for businesses to drop the lower paid people off their health insurance. In this bill, if a company wishes to drop any employee from the company health plan, then they will have to drop all their employees, from the top executives on down. 
We are trying to help those who cannot help themselves, which I think is the most conservative thing we can do in this society. We are not trying to help those who can help themselves but refuse to. People who can help themselves ought to help themselves. 
What I am saying, Mr. President, is that it is time. It is time for this Congress to get down to business. 
Mr. President, it is time. 
It is time for us to get down to business. 
It is time for the Congress to focus on how to make a great country greater on how to set aside partisan differences and help the people we were elected to help. 
It is time to focus on what truly needs to be done in this country not on deadlock or gridlock or shutdown. 
It is time to wake up and realize that--in this great land of incredible riches and abundance--in the greatest country of the world--there are still children being left behind. 
Who cannot be disturbed, even frightened, by the statistics? 
Drug use among our young people is dramatically on the rise. In its ninth annual survey of students in grades 6-12, the National Parents' Resource Institute for Drug Education [PRIDE] reported that annual use of most drugs was at the highest level since the survey began 10 years ago. Record use was reported for cigarettes, marijuana, cocaine, uppers, downers, inhalants, and hallucinogens. 
Serious questions have been raised about our children's ability to learn. Our children rank pitifully behind other countries in educational scores. One survey of international test scores for math and science, found Americans to rank dead last and South Koreans ranking the best. And, who could not be disturbed by this? A 1991 National Assessment of Education Progress survey, revealed that only 5 percent of high school seniors demonstrated enough understanding of geometry and algebra to be prepared for college-level math. 
Violence is rapidly becoming a way of life for today's children. Over the past decade, the rate of homicide committed by teenagers aged 14-17 has more than doubled, increasing 172 percent from 1985 to 1994. In fact, 35 percent of all violent crime is committed by offenders less than 20 years of age. 
And here's another astounding fact. Two years ago, a survey of 1,000 teachers showed that 11 percent had been assaulted in school. Teachers have been robbed, vandalized, slashed by razors, physically assaulted, shot, and set on fire in the schools. What kind of learning environment is that for our children? 
And, let's look at child health. How many Senators are aware that almost one out of three children have no health insurance? 
Ten million children have no health insurance at all. That is more children than the entire populations of Maine, Rhode Island, Alaska, Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Montana, Nebraska, South Dakota, and Vermont--10 States--combined. 
Did anyone know this? Over 500,000 American infants are uninsured, infants who need such critical services as immunizations to grow up healthy. 
Mr. President, these are astounding statistics. Terrifying predictors of our world as we head into the 21st century. 
And I, for one, am going to put my foot down. I will do everything I can to reverse this trend. 
I challenge each Senator in this body to work with me on what must be the top agenda item for the 105th Congress: Making this world a better place for our children. 
I will make this a top priority in the Judiciary Committee. 
We will look at such issues as the Federal Gang Violence Act, violence in the schools, and, importantly, a strong national antidrug abuse strategy. 
Already the committee has approved--only to suffer the most narrow of defeats on the floor--the Balanced Budget Act, passage of which is perhaps the most important legacy we can leave for our children, each of whom is born saddled with $20,000 in debt. 
And I hope other committees will be working as well. 
For no effort to improve this world for our children can be complete without measures to improve their ability to grow up healthy. 
That is why I have united with my good friend and sometimes adversary, Senator Kennedy, to draft the bill we are introducing 
today: the Child Health Insurance and Lower Deficit Act. We call it the CHILD bill. The CHILD bill will be accompanied by additional legislation we also introduce today which provides the funding offset for the CHILD Program through an increase in the tobacco excise tax. 
Introduction today of S. 525, and the companion bill to increase the tobacco excise tax, completes 3 months of intense negotiations between myself and Senator Kennedy. 
Our discussions were sometimes heated, sometimes acrimonious, but always well intentioned. They have resulted in a bill, the adoption of which I think will make this country a better place. 
And so, today, Senator Kennedy and I have found a solid center--we have compromised from the left and from the right. We are doing this to help the 10 million children in the United States who are without health insurance. We are doing it because it is the right thing to do. 
The child health insurance and services bill Senator Kennedy and I will introduce today is targeted to the near poor, primarily working families, who are not covered by existing Government programs. Two-thirds of the uninsured children come from low-income working families with annual incomes of $25,000 or less; 86 percent are from families where at least one parent is employed. 
I think any honest examination of this would show that these statistics are deplorable. Children are our most precious natural resource. If we had a vote on that today, it would pass 100 to 0. And if you agree on that, the next step is simple. I can't think of a more appropriate role for the Federal Government than helping the most vulnerable in our society. It has become a cliche, but children are our future. 
Already I have taken criticism for this bill and for uniting with a Democrat to sponsor the CHILD Act. It is true that Senator Kennedy and I represent the most divergent philosophies in the U.S. Congress. It is for that very reason we are proposing S. 525 today. United, we can provide the basis for a consensus position we hope all our colleagues will endorse. 
It is true that Senator Kennedy and I do not often agree on public policy. I can't even count the number of times I have stood on this floor to oppose--even filibuster--legislation he has sponsored. But with respect to health care--when it comes to helping people--we both have a strong commitment to doing the right thing regardless of politics. And this legislation is the right thing to do. 
Joining Senator Kennedy and me today in cosponsorship of the CHILD bill, S. 525, are 19 Senators, for a total of 21. Those Senators are: Snowe, Kerry, Jeffords, Dodd, Stevens, Rockefeller, Bennett, Daschle, Collins, Wellstone, Smith (OR), Bingaman, Campbell, Murray, Reed, Boxer, Lautenberg, Durbin, and Reid. 
Joining us in cosponsorship of the tobacco tax bill, S. 525, are Senators Bennett, Bingaman, Boxer, Dodd, Durbin, Jeffords, Kerry, Lautenberg, Murray, Reed, Reid, Rockefeller, Snowe, and Wellstone. 
What are the major features of the CHILD bill? 
Our proposal sets up a voluntary State grant program--I repeat, voluntary State grant program. The funds will be used by States to subsidize the cost, or part of the cost, of private health insurance for needy children. States will also be able to use Community and Migrant Health Centers to provide services directly to children. 
We hope our program will be a catalyst to improve health care for kids. It is a Federal/State/private partnership. Any State that wishes to participate must contribute to the program. States may require individuals or their employers to contribute as well. 
We have designed an approach which we believe is fiscally responsible. The bill authorizes program expenditures for each of 5 years, and it is fully financed with a 43-cent increase in tobacco excise taxes. Two-thirds of the revenues will be used for program services, and one-third for deficit reduction. 
In drafting S. 525, we have worked very hard to make certain that no large, new bureaucracy will be needed to implement the CHILD Program. The idea of a huge new Federal involvement in health care frightens most Americans, as was so amply evidenced by the resounding defeat of the Clinton health care bill in 1994. 
I was one of the loudest objectors to that legislation as a member of both the Finance and Labor Committees at the time it was considered. I want to assure my colleagues that we are not replicating that exercise here today. 
HHS will disburse the grant money according to existing Medicaid formulas and the number of uninsured children in the State. The Treasury Department already collects an excise tax. 
The States will set eligibility levels, which presumably they could do very easily based on their experiences with Medicaid and other State programs to help the poor and near poor. The States will use their current Medicaid benefits packages to negotiate contracts for insurance coverage. These are not complex calculations. They should be easily achievable. 
We also worked very hard to allay any concerns that we were establishing a new entitlement program. 
We are not. 
The bill does not establish any individual entitlement to benefits. It is a 5-year authorization which is fully funded. It is not like Medicare where we guarantee we will pay for the services of every eligible beneficiary. It is not like Medicaid where we pay an open-ended amount, which is appropriated annually. 
What we are really talking about doing with this bill is finding cost-effective ways to get quality health care services to children. Our bill recognizes and strengthens the important role that community, migrant and homeless centers play in caring for the Nation's uninsured children and their families. Community and rural health centers already exist. We are not creating them or remaking them in this bill. 
They are located in medically underserved communities where many uninsured children live. Over 940 health centers in every State serve one out of six low-income American children, over 4.5 million children. They are currently the family doctor for one out of seven uninsured children, totaling 1.3 million children. Last year, health center professionals delivered one of every 10 babies born in the United States, and one out of every five low income babies. They are experts in providing quality, comprehensive primary and preventive care to uninsured children--the very type of care we are trying to get to children with this bill. 
Our bill permits these children to continue to choose health centers as their primary care provider and to make the choice of a health center available to other uninsured children. In each area currently served by a health center, a direct service option will be available to children who are served by a health center. Families choosing the direct service option will get the same comprehensive Medicaid package of services as do those who opt for a children's policy. Under the direct service option, children will receive their primary and preventive care at the health center they select and will receive specialty and inpatient care through networks of providers certified by the State or through a wrap-around insurance policy. 
We believe that the direct service option will be as cost effective as an insurance policy and may even be less expensive. Several studies which compared the total annual cost of health care for Medicaid patients served by health centers--including primary and specialty care and inpatient care--to the total annual cost of care for Medicaid patients served by other types of providers--including health maintenance organizations and private physicians--found that health center care was the least expensive. 
The reason? Health centers prevent illness because of the primary and preventive care they provide. Based on these studies, the cost of all care--primary, specialty, and inpatient--under the direct service option is expected to be lower than the cost for a 
child cared for by another type of provider. 
As the chief sponsor of the balanced budget amendment, I could not support the creation of any new entitlement program. 
Indeed, I believe this proposal is fully consistent with the BBA. First, our bill is fully financed by the proposed tobacco products tax. Second, for every $2 of program cost the Hatch-Kennedy bill dedicates $1 to deficit reduction. 
When all is said and done, this bill would help to bring the budget in balance--which I believe will be nearly as essential to children in the long-run as necessary health care is in the short-run. 
Let me underscore that the net cost to the Federal Government of the CHILD Act is zero, because it is fully funded. In fact, the bill literally saves money, because it provides at least $10 billion in funds for deficit reduction over the next 5 years. 
We cap Federal expenditures at $20 billion over 5 years for services, with $10 billion for deficit reduction. Over the 5-year period, the ratio of services to deficit reduction will be 2 to 1. 
For services, we will provide the following amounts: 1998: $3 billion, 1999: $3 billion, 2000: $4 billion, 2001: $5 billion, 2002: $5 billion. 
For deficit reduction, we provide the following amounts: 1998: $3 billion, 1999: $3 billion, 2000: $2 billion, 2001: $1 billion, and 2002: $1 billion. 
Let me make perfectly clear that the size of this program is capped each year. In fact, if not enough revenue is generated, then the size of the program will be lowered accordingly. 
Let me take a moment to address other potential concerns about this bill. 
Many have asked why we need a new program. Indeed, we have the Medicaid Program, which helps the poorest of the poor. Even so, there are 10 million children without coverage. In fact, 3 million uninsured children are eligible for Medicaid, but are not enrolled. 
There is no program for the remaining 7 million children, most of whom come from near poor families. Those families are faced with two very unattractive options: a choice between dropping out of the labor force in order to get Medicaid eligibility, or keeping their jobs with no health care coverage at all. 
It might be logical to assume that Medicaid would provide the basis for a program to increase child health coverage. And we did examine that idea. But, Medicaid is an open-ended entitlement--and an expensive one at that. Both the States and the Federal Government are seriously concerned about the runaway costs of Medicaid. 
In contrast, our capped program is not an entitlement. It is a targeted approach which allows States considerable flexibility in design and administration. 
Others have suggested that we use a tax-based approach. I would be willing to consider a tax credit approach, if we could design one that really works. But I foresee two problems in developing such an approach. 
The first is that a tax credit could really amount to an open-ended entitlement, whereas the size of our program is capped each year. The second is that poor and near-poor families, who we are trying to help with this bill, simply cannot afford to buy insurance coverage during the year, and wait until the next April to get the money back. 
For the benefit of my colleagues, I want to respond to two other concerns. 
First, I must emphasize that S. 525 is not the Kerry-Kennedy 
bill from last year, S. 2186. It is a new proposal that Senator Kennedy and I wrote together. Senator Kennedy and I have both moved considerable distances to write this compromise legislation. 
This bill is not an open-ended, permanent entitlement; it is a capped 5-year program, run by the States and, as such, is very similar to a proposal former House Republican Leader Bob Michel authored in 1995. 
Second is the assertion that this bill is part of the Clinton agenda on health care. If helping the needy is crime, then I plead guilty. But I hope I have convinced those here today that there is a big difference between Clintoncare and the Hatch-Kennedy bill. 
Indeed, I am aware that some believe there is a hidden Clinton agenda to enact health care reform piece by piece, starting with kids care. 
I think that is a red herring. This argument suggests to me that we should never do anything worthwhile because of the possibility that it may evolve into something bad. I agree that we do not want the huge Clinton health care mandate proposed and debated during the 103d Congress. But, this bill is not that bill--it is not even a look-alike bill. 
I have tried to design a Reaganesque block grant tailored to meet a specific problem with a wide degree of flexibility for the States. Unlike the Clinton program, the CHILD Act is focused. It is fully financed; it does not establish a new Federal bureaucracy; and it does not create any new entitlements. There are no price controls and no regional alliances and no global budgets. 
Another difference is that we are trying to make this a bipartisan approach right from the beginning. We have the wisdom of that national debate 2 years ago and are far wiser for it. 
Let me next turn to the issue of the tobacco tax as a source of revenue for the Children's Health Insurance and Lower Deficit Act. There can be no doubt that smoking and tobacco use is a major public health problem. By any measure, it is also costly. 
Smoking is our Nation's No. 1 preventable health threat. There are about 48 million Americans who smoke. About 2 million Americans use other tobacco products like chewing tobacco. 
Consider these facts. 
Tobacco kills an estimated 419,000 Americans each year. 
An additional 2.5 million more people throughout the world die from smoking each year. 
Smoking accounts for about 1 in 5 deaths in the United States. 
Tobacco accounts for more deaths than homicide, car and airplane accidents, alcohol, heroin, crack, and AIDS--combined. In fact, cigarettes are also a major cause of fire fatalities in the United States. In 1990, cigarettes were responsible for about one-quarter of all deaths associated with residential fires; this represented over 1,000 deaths. 
Each day nearly 3,000 young Americans become regular smokers. Eventually, 1,000 will die early from tobacco-related diseases. 
Unfortunately, cigarette smoking is on the rise among the young: According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC], the number of high school students reporting that they smoked in the last month rose about one-third between 1991 and 1995, from 27.5 percent in 1991 to 34.8 percent in 1995. 
Among black high school age males the jump in smoking was even more alarming, doubling from 14 percent in 1991 to 28 in 1995. 
About 8 in 10 smokers begin to use tobacco before age 18 and about one-half of all smokers started at age 14 or earlier. 
In 1964, Surgeon General Luther Terry reported that smoking causes lung cancer in men. 
In 1988, the Surgeon General C. Everett Koop reported that smoking was an addictive behavior--the same as for heroin or cocaine. 
Each year, the estimated 1 million youngsters who become smokers add about $9 to $10 billion to the Nation's health care costs over their lifetimes. 
According to a 1994 CDC report, tobacco cost an estimated $50 billion in direct health care costs in 1993. Of this total, CDC 
estimated that $26.9 billion went for hospital expenditures, $15.5 billion for physician expenditures, $4.9 billion for nursing home expenditures, $1.8 billion for prescription drugs, and $900 million for home health care expenditures. 
The 1994 CDC report notes: `The findings in this report indicate that cigarette smoking accounts for a substantial and preventable portion of all medical-care costs in the United States.' 
According to CDC projections, in 1993 approximately 24 billion packages of cigarettes were sold in the United States and for each of these packages about $2.06 was spent on medical care attributable to smoking. Of this $2.06 per pack estimated societal medical care cost, CDC estimated that $0.89 was paid through public sources. 
The CDC study estimated that there was a twofold increase in estimated direct medical care costs attributable to smoking between 1987 and 1993. 
Extrapolating the 1987 survey data reported by CDC, it can be estimated that, in 1993, about $10 billion in Medicare costs and $5 billion in Medicaid costs were attributable to smoking. 
It has been estimated that smoking cost $4.75 billion to other Federal health care programs, $1.6 billion to other State health programs, and over $16.7 billion in higher premiums paid to private health insurance companies. 
In addition to the direct cost of about $50 billion annually, experts agree that a similar amount of costs are borne by society through lost productivity--that is, the foregone earnings of those dying prematurely. 
Researchers at the University of California at San Francisco, Drs. Wendy Max and Dorothy Rice, estimate that the 1993 mortality costs due to smoking were $47 billion. 
Overall, smoking costs society over $100 billion annually. This is simply too high a price to pay. 
It is estimated by the Joint Tax Committee that a 43 cent per pack increase in the cigarette tax, coupled with proportionate tax increases for other tobacco products, would yield about $6 billion in new revenues. 
Another point that I want to make today is that the tobacco tax simply has not kept up with inflation. As a matter of fact, the relative component of the price of cigarettes devoted toward taxes has slipped over the last three decades and, even with the increase we propose today, will actually be lower proportionately once this bill is enacted than it was in 1964 when Surgeon General Luther Terry reported that smoking causes cancer. 
In 1964, the average total price of a pack of cigarettes was about 30.5 cents per pack. Of this total, 8 cents went to pay the Federal tax and another 8.5 cents per pack were levied in State cigarette and sales tax. In sum, in 1964, about 50.5 percent of the cost of a pack of cigarettes went to taxes. 
Currently, the average price per pack of cigarettes is about $1.94. Of this total, 24 cents represents the Federal tax and an additional 31.7 cents per pack is levied by the States together with an additional 9.3 cents per pack in sales taxes. All in all, the share of the per pack price of cigarettes devoted to taxes has dropped to about 33.5 percent today from the 1964 level of 50.5 percent. 
If the CHILD Act were signed into law and the new 43 cents per pack tax were added, and if this new tax were passed on directly to the consumer to increase the per pack price to $2.37 per pack, the share of the total price devoted to taxes--45.6 percent--would still be lower than it was in 1964. 
Even when this new tax is factored in, the United States would still have a relatively modest tax component built into the price of cigarettes compared with other industrialized countries. For example, in Canada 64 percent of the price of cigarettes is devoted to taxes. In Great Britain, the comparable figure is 82 percent. 
As a conservative, I am generally opposed to tax increases. 
I firmly believe that the Federal Government should spend less, and the American people should keep more of the money that is earned in our economy. 
As a conservative, I believe in a balanced budget. That is why I spent the better part of February managing the floor debate for the balanced-budget amendment. That is why I worked hard to convince Senator Kennedy to earmark one-third of the revenues raised by the proposed increase in the cigarette tax for deficit reduction. 
Yet, the statistics about tobacco use and cost that I cited above, I believe, make the case that tobacco products are imposing external costs onto society that are not adequately reflected in the price of these inherently dangerous products. Simply stated, the producers and consumers of tobacco products are not paying the full costs of this product. 
When I balance the opportunity that we have in terms of helping to provide health insurance and services to children, coupled with a significant deficit reduction component, against my natural aversion to raising taxes, I come down in favor of this financing mechanism with this tobacco tax--or, as I call it, a user fee. I believe that both the public health and economics reasons are unique and compelling. 
I believe that when my colleagues in Congress have the opportunity to fully consider these issues that they will agree with the cosponsors of this legislation and support the CHILD Act. 
In closing, Mr. President, let me state my intention to work with all interested parties to improve this bill as it moves through the legislative process. 
Indeed, as I have stated, there are some provisions contained within this bill that I believe could be improved through a thorough public discussion. 
In particular, I would like to hear from the Governors about how this bill meets their needs with respect to the uninsured population. 
I am aware that they may have a few concerns about the bill, such as using the Medicaid benefits package as the model for the private insurance contracts. 
Senator Kennedy and I inserted that provision in the bill for two reasons. We knew that the Governors would be familiar with it and, most importantly, it would obviate the need at either the Federal or State levels to undertake the onerous task of creating a benefits package. 
Our Utah Governor, Mike Leavitt, has stated on more than one occasion that he believes the Medicaid benefit package is too `rich;' in other words, a more efficient package would be less costly and still provide needed care. I look forward to working with him and the leaders of other States to address this issue. 
Another issue of critical concern is the interrelationship of this program with the employer community. We were very careful to design a program that would complement existing employer efforts to insure their employees without a costly Federal mandate. On the other hand, though, we wanted to make sure that there was no incentive for employers to `dump' employees into the new program in order to relieve themselves of a benefit cost. 
That is why we inserted a provision that states that any employer who makes health insurance contributions for an employee cannot vary such contributions based on an individual's eligibility under the CHILD Act. The only way an employer could put a currently insured employee into the CHILD program would be to eliminate coverage for all employees in the company plan. We think this is highly unlikely to happen. 
Again, let me state that we were very sensitive to the concerns about a mandate on employers, and we look forward to a very careful examination of this issue as the legislation progresses. 
Let me also discuss for a moment the issue that Senator Lott has already mentioned, that of making certain that the 3 million children who are currently eligible for Medicaid, but not participating, become enrolled. While our bill does not address that issue, it is something we need to do. I hope to work with Senator Jeffords and Senator DeWine who have indicated in interest to me in working to make certain that those who are eligible for Medicaid can participate. 
But let me hasten to add that only 3 million out of the 10 million uninsured children are eligible for Medicaid. So, Senator Lott's idea--which is a good one--would still leave 70 percent of the problem untouched. 
Mr. President, in closing I want to reiterate my commitment to working with Senator Kennedy and all 98 of my other colleagues to enact a bill this year which will improve child health insurance coverage in the United States. 
It is time, and I hope the majority of this body will agree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970408</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will my friend yield me 30 seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970408</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I want to compliment my friend for the remaining 30 seconds. I wish I could spend more time. 
Development of these bills has not been an easy thing for him to do, or for me. But I am convinced we have drafted a program that will work. 
I have to suggest that if Senator Kennedy and Senator Hatch--who have such widespread differences of philosophy--can unite to propose a program like this, then anybody can get together. Despite our philosophical differences, which are wide, we both have a great deal of friendship and caring for each other. We are working as hard as we can to do what is right here. 
I want to thank my colleague for his great work in this effort. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970408</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970320</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, intellectual property is vitally important to sustaining the high level of creativity that America enjoys, which not only adds to the fund of human knowledge and the progress of science and technology, but also results in the more tangible benefits of a strong economy and a favorable balance of trade. 
For example, in 1994, copyright-related industries contributed more than $385 billion to the American economy, or more than 5 percent of the total gross domestic product. This represents more than $50 billion in foreign sales, which exceeds every other leading industry sector except automotive and agriculture in contributions to a favorable trade balance. From 1977 to 1994, these same industries grew at a rate that was twice the rate of growth of the national economy, and the rate of job growth in these industries since 1987 has outpaced that of the overall economy by more than 100 percent. 
Mr. President, this is impressive to say the least. And these figures don't begin to take into account the contributions of other intellectual property sectors, including trade in patented technologies and the economic value of famous marks. Clearly intellectual property has become one of our Nation's most valuable resources. 
As you know, the Judiciary Committee, is charged with monitoring the effectiveness of our intellectual property laws and with proposing to the Senate changes that are called for to meet new challenges. Because of the digital age and the global economy, we've had our hands full. Let me just go through a few highlights. 
In the 104th Congress, we passed the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act, which, as its name signifies, adjusts the existing performance right in the Copyright Act to 
the demands of the new digital media. I also introduced, with Senator Leahy, the National Information Infrastructure (NII) Copyright Protection Act of 1995 to begin to lay down the rules of the road for the information highway. The Committee held two hearings on this bill, but not enough time was left in the 104th to complete our deliberations. 
In response to the challenges of the global economy, I introduced the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1995, along with Senator Thompson and Senator Feinstein, to give U.S. copyright owners parity of term in the European Union. The EU has issued a directive to increase the minimum basic copyright term from life-plus-50 years to life-plus-70. If we do not follow suit, U.S. works in potentially all EU countries will receive 20 years less protection than the works of the nationals of the host country. 
The Copyright Term Extension Act was approved by the Judiciary Committee. I am confident that the bill would have been approved by the Senate as well with little or no opposition, but unfortunately this important legislation was held hostage by advocates of music licensing reform--a totally unrelated issue. 
In patents, too, we were very active. The Biotechnology Process Patents Act was passed. Also, I introduced the Omnibus Patent Act of 1996, which remade the Patent and Trademark Office into a government corporation. The corporate form would allow the Patent and Trademark Office to escape the micromanagement that it currently endures from the Commerce Department, although my bill preserved a policy link with the Department. The bill also made several very important substantive changes to the Patent Act. 
After some tough negotiations, the Clinton administration ended up supporting the final version of the bill. The Judiciary Committee had a hearing on the bill, but Committee action was held hostage to yet another, totally unrelated issue--judicial nominations. 
In addition to improving the efficiency of the patent and trademark systems, I have worked tirelessly for a number of years to rectify the injustice of making American inventors 
bear a heavier burden in deficit reduction than the ordinary citizen through the withholding of patent surcharge funds. Again last year I led an ultimately unsuccessful effort to ease this tax on American ingenuity. 
Now no one has demonstrated more zeal for a balanced budget than I have. As you know, Mr. President, I was on the Senate floor for 3 weeks trying to get this body to discipline itself through the Balanced Budget Amendment. But I do not believe that inventors ought to pay a surcharge on their patent applications only to see that surcharge used for the general revenue rather than to improve the service they receive from the PTO. The PTO, after all, is a self-sustaining agency, not receiving a penny from taxpayer dollars. What they charge, they ought to keep. I am currently looking at a legislative solution to this problem. 
I have also been looking into the special patent restoration rules that apply to pharmaceutical products. In 1984, Congress enacted the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act. Essentially, this law--commonly known as, I am proud to say, the Hatch-Waxman Act--allowed generic drug manufacturers to rely on the costly safety and efficacy data of pioneer drug manufacturers and provided for partial patent restoration for pioneer products to offset a portion of the patent term lost due to FDA regulatory review. 
I know that many are interested in revisiting particular provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act now that we have had a decade-plus experience under the new system. In my view, to be successful, any Hatch-Waxman reform must be balanced in a manner that the American public, generic drug firms, and the R&D manufacturers are all able to realize benefits. Toward this end, my staff and I have been meeting with representatives of both segments of the pharmaceutical industry to identify areas of concern. 
It is my hope that these discussions will result in proposals to create new incentives in our intellectual property protection system and efficiency in our regulatory processes that will increase the long-term strength of both segments of the industry. Our bottom line goal is clear: We want a climate that produces both innovative new medicines and lower-cost 
generic copies of off-patent products. 
I do not guarantee success in this endeavor, I can only commit that I will listen to all parties involved and see if we can work together to forge a compromise on Hatch-Waxman reform. I would like to do it if we can, but I will not support any approach that is not balanced. 
Let me just add that my willingness to work with all parties should not be construed as giving a veto to any particular party. Ultimately, the test I use will be: Will the American public be better off if a particular legislative proposal is adopted? If, and only if, this test can be met, will I ask others in this body to join me in moving legislation. 
Mr. President, let me now turn to trademark legislation, an area in which we have had a lot of success. Both the Federal Trademark Dilution Act and the Anticounterfeiting Consumer Protection Act became law in the 104th Congress. The Federal Trademark Dilution Act was significant in that it established the first-ever Federal anti-dilution statute to provide nationwide protection against the whittling away of famous marks. The Anticounterfeiting Consumer Protection Act brought our Nation's anticounterfeiting laws up to speed with the quickly evolving counterfeiting trade by providing stiffer civil and criminal penalties and increasing the tools available to law enforcement to give them the upper hand in this fight. 
As you can see though, Mr. President, we have a lot of unfinished business, so today I'm introducing two bills from the last Congress, the Omnibus Patent Act, and the Copyright Term Extension Act. In addition, I'm introducing the Copyright Clarification Act, which is a series of truly technical amendments to the Copyright Act. I am pleased that Senator Leahy, the distinguished ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, Senator D'Amato, the distinguished junior Senator from New York, Senator Abraham, the distinguished junior Senator from Michigan, and Senator Feinstein, the distinguished senior Senator from California, are joining me as cosponsors of the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1997. 
Of course, Mr. President, these three bills do not comprise my entire intellectual property 
agenda. For example, at my request, the Copyright Office is taking a look at sui generis protection of databases and at amendments to the Satellite Home Viewer Act. The Copyright Office may very well have recommendations for legislation in this area, and I may introduce such legislation before the end of this session. However, because the three bills I am introducing today have widespread support and have been thoroughly discussed in the last Congress, it is appropriate that they be the first to be considered--old business before new business.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak briefly in support of H.R. 924, the Victims' Rights Clarification Act of 1997. A companion to this bill was introduced this past Friday by Senator Nickles as S. 447, which is cosponsored by Senator Inhofe, myself, Senator Leahy, and Senator Grassley. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of this vital bill because it advances the rights of crime victims in the criminal justice process. This bill will ensure that victims of a crime who may be victim-impact witnesses at the sentencing phase of a trial are able to attend that trial and still testify at sentencing. 
Mr. President, too often the victims of crime seem to be forgotten as the wheels of justice turn. In a sense, they are victimized twice--first by the criminal, and then by a justice system that too frequently treats them as irrelevant to the administration of justice. 
This legislation clarifies that the victims and survivors of crime who might present testimony at sentencing about the effects of the defendant's act should not be prevented from observing the trial. It also clarifies that, conversely, observing the trial is not grounds for excluding a victim or survivor from presenting impact testimony at sentencing. In 1991, the Supreme Court ruled in Payne v. Tennessee [501 U.S. 808] ruled that victims and survivors may be given the right to provide testimony at sentencing about the victim and the impact of the crime on the victim's family. Since then, Congress has ensured that the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure provide this right to victims of violent crimes when the defendant is tried in 
federal court. 
Recent court decisions have made it evident that some clarification of this right is badly needed. These decisions have excluded from trials victims and survivors who might give impact testimony at sentencing. 
Generally, witnesses may be excluded from viewing a trial until they have testified. The rationale for this rule, known as the rule on witnesses and embodied in rule 615 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, is the need to prevent witnesses from collaborating on their testimony, as well as the need to prevent each witness from shaping his or her testimony to the testimony that already has been presented. Those rationales do not apply, however, when victims testify at sentencing about the effect of the crime on their own lives. As a result of this bill, victims and survivors will be permitted to observe the trial and still testify about the effect of the crime on their lives, without running afoul of the policy underpinnings for excluding witnesses from viewing a trial. 
Another rationale for application of the rule on witnesses, and one that has been advanced to prevent victims from both observing the trial and presenting impact testimony, holds that a victim may testify only about the effect of the crime on his or her life, not about the effect of the trial on his life. But, Mr. President, for the victim the trial is one of the effects of the crime and becomes forever a part of the victim's life. 
Remember, this amendment deals only with victim impact testimony. By that point in the process, the defendant already has been convicted. In my view, it is not unfair for the law to treat the effect on a victim of viewing a trial as part of the effect of the crime, since the trial is a proximate, reasonably foreseeable consequence of the commission of a crime. As the result, a victim should be free to see the trial and still give victim-impact testimony at sentencing. 
This bill will ensure that victims of crimes have an opportunity to alleviate some of their suffering through witnessing the operation of the criminal justice system. Moreover, this bill will accomplish this salutary result without having forced upon them the cruel choice of observing the trial or giving impact testimony at sentencing. Indeed, the bill before the Senate is a significant improvement over the legislation originally introduced in the other body because, unlike the original House bill, it specifically ensures that victims have the right both to attend the trial and provide impact testimony at sentencing. The opportunity to do both is critical to providing closure to victims and ensuring justice for victims, as well as defendants and society. 
Mr. President, this provision is not controversial. I hope that it can be passed by the Senate and sent to the President for his approval without delay.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, before we get to the specific discussion of the merits of Merrick B. Garland, let me make an important point. There have been some suggestions made that this Republican Congress is not moving as rapidly or as well as it should on judges, or at least last year did not move as well or as rapidly as it should have on judges. 
With regard to judicial vacancies, the important point I would like to make before getting into factual distortions that are being made about the judiciary confirmation process is this. Federal judges should not be confirmed simply as part of a numbers game to reduce the vacancy rate to a particular level. 
While I plan to oversee a fair and principled confirmation process, as I always have, I want to emphasize that the primary criteria in this process is not how many vacancies need to be filled but whether President Clinton's nominees are qualified to serve on the bench and will not, upon receiving their judicial commission, spend a lifetime career rendering politically motivated, activist decisions. The Senate has an obligation to the American people to thoroughly review the records of the nominees it receives to ensure that they are qualified and capable to serve as Federal judges. Frankly, the need to do that is imperative, and the record of activism demonstrated by so many of President Clinton's nominees calls for all the more vigilance in reviewing his nominees. 
So I have no problem with those who want to review these nominees with great specificity. The recent allegations by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and in the media that there is a Republican stall of judges is nothing short of disingenuous. 
The fact is that last Congress under Republican leadership the Federal courts had 65 vacancies--as you see, the Federal courts had 65 vacancies--which is virtually identical to the number of vacancies--63--there were at the end of the previous Congress when the Democrat-controlled Congress was processing Clinton judges. 
Historically speaking, this is a very low vacancy rate. In contrast, at the end of the 102d Congress, when Senator Biden chaired the Judiciary Committee and President Bush was at the White House, there were 97 vacancies--as you can see, back in the 102d Congress, 97 vacancies--in the Federal system for an 11.46 percent vacancy rate, nearly twice the vacancy rate than at the adjournment of the 104th or last Congress. That rate was, of course, 7.7 percent at that time. 
The vacancies have risen since the end of Congress so that there are now 95 vacancies, or a vacancy rate of just over 11 percent. But a little perspective reveals that this is by no 
means a high level for the beginning of a Congress. In fact, it is far lower than the vacancy rates at the beginning of Democrat-controlled Congresses, like the 102d when the vacancy rate at the beginning of that Congress was 14.89 percent, and the 103d Congress at 12.88 percent. In the 104th, it was down to 8.27 and now it is 10.07. 
Moreover, we just reported two judges out of the committee this past Thursday--Merrick Garland for the DC circuit and Colleen Kollar-Kotelly for the DC district court. We had a hearing on four judicial nominees just yesterday. I hope that will put to rest any of the partisan allegations that have been seen deployed about delaying tactics to hold up nominees. 
In fact, this is the most prompt reporting of judges to the floor in recent Congresses. When the Senate was under the control of the other party, the first hearing on judicial nominees in the new Congress was typically not held until mid-March or April and candidates were not reported to the floor until after these hearings. 
In the 100th Congress, the first hearing was not held until March 4, 1987. In the 101st Congress, the first judges hearing was not held until April 5, 1989. And in the 102d Congress, when there was a vacancy rate of 15 percent in the courts, the first hearing was not held until March 13, 1991. 
So I think some of the arguments made against what we have been doing are just fallacious and I think done for partisan reasons. We ought to get rid of the partisanship when it comes to judges and go ahead and do what is right. I have tried to do that. 
Now let us talk about the number of judges confirmed last year. Democrats have been critical of the fact that only 17 judges were confirmed last year. The fact is that President Clinton had already had so many judges confirmed that he only nominated 21 judges last year. During President Clinton's first term, he had 202 judges confirmed--more than President Bush, 194; President Reagan, 164 in his first term; President Ford, 65 in his term. I might say that as a result there were very few vacancies to fill at the end of the 104th Congress, and the courts were virtually at full capacity. 
In fact, at the close of the last Congress, there were only 65 vacancies in the entire system, which is a vacancy rate of 7.7 percent. In fact, the number of vacancies under my chairmanship at the close of the 104th Congress, 65 vacancies--when a Republican Senate was processing Clinton's nominees--was virtually identical to the number of vacancies at the end of the 103d Congress, 63, when a Democrat-controlled Senate was processing President Clinton's nominees. At that point the Department of Justice proclaimed that they had nearly reached full employment in the 837-member Federal judiciary. 
That is in an October 12, 1994, Department of Justice press release. 
When the Democrats left open 7.44 percent of Federal judgeships after President Clinton's first 2 years, we had approached `full employment' of the Federal judiciary. But, when Republicans are in control, a virtually identical vacancy level becomes an `unprecedented situation,' the `worst kind of politicizing of the Federal judiciary.' Those are comments that were made by my friend, Senator Leahy. And `partisan tactics by Senate Republicans,' according to the New York Times. This is nothing short of disingenuous. 
In contrast, at the end of the 102d Congress when Senator Biden chaired the Judiciary Committee and President Bush was in the White House, there were 97 vacancies in the Federal system for an 11.46 percent vacancy rate--nearly twice the vacancy rate than at adjournment of the 104th Congress, which was 65 vacancies at a 7.7 percent vacancy rate. 
What about the judges who were left unconfirmed at the end of last August? 
It is true, 28 nominees did not get confirmed last Congress. There is no use kidding about it. We had 28 who did not make it through. But this was at a point where there were only 65 vacancies in the court, or, in other words, a full Federal judiciary. There is some extra consideration here. Compare this to the end of the 102d Congress when, notwithstanding 97 vacancies in the Federal system, the Democratic Senate left 55 Bush nominees unconfirmed. 
Let us talk about the present vacancies. Due to an unprecedented number of retirements since Congress adjourned, there are currently 95 vacancies in our Federal system or a vacancy rate of 11.25 percent as of March 1 of this year. That is the most recent report from the Administrative Office of the Courts. Notice that when the 105th Congress convened on January 7, 1997, there were 85 vacancies, or a 10.7 percent vacancy rate. But a little perspective reveals that this is by no means a high level for the beginning of the Congress. In fact, it is lower than the vacancy rates at the beginning of the Democratically controlled 102d and 103d Congresses, where the vacancy rates were 126 vacancies in the 102d, at a 14.89 percent vacancy rate, with 109 vacancies in the 103d, for a 12.88 vacancy rate. 
So, there is little or no reason to be this critical or this irritated with what has gone on. I pledge to the Senate to do the very best that I can to try to confirm President Clinton's judges, if they are not superlegislators, if they are people who will uphold the law and interpret the law and the laws made by those who are elected to make them. Judges have no reason on Earth to be making laws from the bench or to act as superlegislators from the bench and to overrule the will of the majority of the people in this country when the laws are very explicitly written--or at any other time, I might add. 
Having said all that, we are bringing our first two nominees this year to the floor, one of whom is in contention. I think unjustifiably so. 
Madam President, I rise to speak on behalf of the nomination of Merrick B. Garland for a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. On March 6, 1997, the Judiciary Committee, including a majority of Republican members, by a vote of 14 to 4, favorably reported to the full Senate Mr. Clinton's nomination of Merrick B. Garland. Based solely on his qualifications, I support the nomination of Mr. Garland and I encourage my colleagues to do the same. 
To my knowledge, no one, absolutely no one disputes the following: Merrick B. Garland is highly qualified to sit on the D.C. circuit. His intelligence and his scholarship cannot be questioned. He is a magna cum laude graduate of the Harvard Law School. Mr. Garland was articles editor of the law review, one of the most important positions for any law student at any university, but in particular at Harvard; a very difficult position to earn. And he has written articles in the Harvard Law Review and the Yale Law Journal, two of the most prestigious journals in the country, on issues such as administrative law and antitrust policy. 
His legal experience is equally impressive. Mr. Garland has been a Supreme Court law clerk, a Federal criminal prosecutor, a partner in one of the most prestigious Washington firms, Arnold & Porter, Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Justice Department's Criminal Division, and, since April of 1994, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General to Jamie Gorelick, at the Justice Department, where he has directed the Department's investigation and prosecution of the Oklahoma City bombing case. And he has done a superb job there. 
Mr. Garland's experience, legal skills, and handling of the Oklahoma City bombing case have earned him the support of officials who served in the Justice Department during the Reagan and Bush administrations, including former Deputy Attorney General George Terwilliger, former Deputy Attorney General Donald Ayer, former head of the Office of Legal Counsel, Charles Cooper, and former U.S. attorneys Jay Stephens and Dan Webb--all Republicans, I might add, who are strong supporters 
of Mr. Garland, as I believe they should be, as I believe we all should be. 
Oklahoma Governor Frank Keating, who himself was denied one of those judgeships by our friends on the other side--even though I think most all of them admitted he would have made a tremendous judge, but has since done well for himself in becoming the Governor of Oklahoma and has distinguished himself. I might add his nomination, back in 1992, for the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in the 102d Congress, was never voted on by the Judiciary Committee. He languished in the committee for quite a length of time. But Governor Keating has endorsed Mr. Garland's nomination, praising in particular his leadership in the Oklahoma City bombing case. As he should be praised. 
Mr. Garland was originally nominated in September 1995. His nomination was favorably reported by the Judiciary Committee but not acted on by the Senate during the 104th Congress, much to my chagrin, because I think he should have passed in that last Congress. But to my colleagues' credit, and certainly to the leader's credit, the new majority leader, he has cooperated with the Judiciary Committee in bringing this nomination to the floor. 
At the time of Mr. Garland's original nomination to fill the seat vacated by Judge Abner Mikva, who went on to become White House Counsel, concerns were raised by several, including several distinguished judges here in Washington, as to whether the D.C. circuit needed its full complement of 12 judges due to a declining workload on the Court. I support Senator Grassley's efforts to study the systemwide caseloads of the Federal judiciary and am fully prepared to work with Senator Grassley as chairman of that Subcommittee on the Courts, on legislation to authorize or deauthorize seats wherever such adjustments on the allocation of Federal judges are warranted, based upon court caseloads. 
With respect to the D.C. circuit, however, the retirement of Judge James Buckley, in August 1996, last year, now leaves only 10 active judges on the 12-seat court. Accordingly, the Garland confirmation does not present the Senate with a question whether the 12th seat on the D.C. Circuit should be filled, and I have made it clear to the administration that I do not intend to fill that seat unless and until they can show, and I believe it will take quite a bit of time before they could show it, that there is a need for the filling of that seat. In fact, I would be, right now, for doing away with that seat. If at some future time we need that extra, 12th seat, fine, we will pass a bill to grant it again. But right now it is not needed. 
I would just say, rather, with the two current vacancies, Garland will be filling only the 11th seat. So the 12th seat is not in play anymore, which was the critical seat. 
The confirmation of Merrick B. Garland to fill the court's now vacant 11th seat is supported by D.C. Circuit Judge Laurence Silberman, a Reagan appointee who himself testified against creating and/or preserving unneeded judicial seats on his circuit, meaning the 12th seat, and who has stated that, `it would be a mistake, a serious mistake, for Congress to reduce'--that is, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia--`down below 11 judges.' 
I am aware that there may be some who take the position that the D.C. circuit's workload statistics do not even warrant 11 judges. With all due respect, I think these arguments completely miss the mark, and caution my colleagues to appreciate that certain statistics can, if not properly understood, be misleading. 
The position that the D.C. circuit should have fewer than 11 judges is belied not just by the statements of Judge Silberman, who himself wanted to get rid of the 12th seat, but also by the fact that comparing workloads in the D.C. circuit to that of other circuits is, to a large extent, a pointless exercise. 
There is little dispute that the D.C. circuit's docket is, by far, the most complex and time consuming in the Nation. Justice Department statistics show that whereas in a typical circuit, 5.9 percent of all cases filed are administrative appeals, which are generally far more time consuming than other appeals, and 26.7 percent are prisoner petitions which tend to be disposed of far more quickly than other appeals. While that is true in other circuit courts, 45.3 percent of the cases filed in the D.C. circuit over the past 3 years have been complex administrative appeals and only 7 percent easily disposed of prisoner petitions. 
Moreover, most of the administrative appeals heard in the D.C. circuit involved the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Federal Communications Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency and are much more complex and time consuming than even the immigration and labor appeals, which comprise most of the administrative agency cases filed in other circuits. 
In short, simply comparing the number of cases filed in the D.C. circuit to the number filed in other circuits, and even comparing the number of agency appeals, is not a reliable indicator of the courts' comparative workloads. 
As Senators, we have a responsibility to the public to ensure that candidates for the Federal bench are scrutinized for political activists. A judge who does not appreciate the inherent limits on judicial authority under the Constitution and would seek to legislate from the bench rather than interpret the law is a judicial activist, and nominees who will be judicial activists are simply not qualified to sit on any Federal bench, let alone the Federal circuit court of appeals or any Federal circuit court of appeals. 
As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I will continue to carefully scrutinize the records involved in cases of judicial nominees and to exercise the Senate's advise-and-consent power to ensure we keep activists off the bench. In addition, I will continue to speak out both in the Senate and in other forums to increase public awareness of harm to our society posed by such activists. Although we can never guarantee what the future actions of any judicial nominee will be or any judge, for that matter, and it may be difficult to discern whether a particular candidate will be an activist, I do not believe there is anything in Mr. Garland's record to indicate that, if confirmed, he could amount to an activist judge or might ultimately be an activist judge. 
Accordingly, I believe Mr. Garland is a fine nominee. I know him personally, I know of his integrity, I know of his legal ability, I know of his honesty, I know of his acumen, and he belongs on the court. I believe he is not only a fine nominee, but is as good as Republicans can expect from this administration. In fact, I would place him at the top of the list. There are some other very good people, so I don't mean to put them down, but this man deserves to be at the top of the list. Opposition to this nomination will only serve to undermine the credibility of our legitimate goal of keeping proven activists off the bench. 
I fully support his nomination, and I urge my colleagues to strongly consider voting in favor of confirmation. 
I hope that we will also confirm the nominee Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, although we will only be voting on Merrick Garland today, that is my understanding. I hope we will put both these judges through. I do not know of any opposition to the nominee Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, and I know very limited opposition at this 
point to Mr. Garland. Like I say, I do not think there is a legitimate argument against Mr. Garland's nomination, and I hope that our colleagues will vote to confirm him today. 
I reserve the remainder of my time.  
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we should inform the Senate that our intent is to yield back the time if we can by 5:15 so people can vote at that time. It could be just a wee bit longer than that. That is our intention. Those who want to come over and use the time need to come now. 
I yield 10 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Pennsylvania, who is a distinguished member of the Judiciary Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have been sitting here listening to this. In all honesty, I would like to see one person come to this floor and say one reason why Merrick Garland does not deserve this position. It has been almost a year. In the last Congress, I must have gone on this issue, trying to get him up, for most of that time. 
First, there was the 12th seat, he was going to get that. Then, when Buckley retired, everybody that I know of, who knows anything about it, other than some of our outside groups who do not seem to want any judges, said that we need the 11th seat. 
As I suspected, nobody in this body is willing to challenge the merit of Merrick Garland's nomination. I have not heard one challenge to him yet. In fact, they openly concede that Mr. Garland is highly qualified to be an appellate judge. Rather, they use arguments that the D.C. circuit does not need 12 judges in order to oppose the confirmation of Mr. Garland for the 11th seat on this court. 
There is not a harder-nosed conservative or more decent conservative that I know than Larry Silberman. I talked to him personally. If he said to me they did not need the 10th seat, I could understand this argument, and I could understand this minirebellion that is occurring. But he said they needed the 11th seat. If he had said, `All we need are 10 seats, we don't need the 11th or 12th,' I would have been on his side, and it would not be because of partisan politics, it would be because I trust him and I believe in his integrity. But I called him personally and he said, `Yes, we do need the 11th seat.' 
My colleague from Alabama circulated a letter saying confirming Merrick Garland would be a `ripoff' of the taxpayers. Having just led the fight for the balanced budget amendment, I do not think that is quite fair. I am never going to rip off the taxpayers. But I will tell you one thing, playing politics with judges is unfair, and I am sick of it, and, frankly, we are going to see what happens around here. A `ripoff?' Let's be serious about this, folks. This is a serious matter. 
My colleague referred to the testimony of Chief Judge Wilkinson of the fourth circuit. That is a different matter. I have challenged the distinguished chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts to look into that, and I am going to be heavily guided by what Senator Grassley comes up with. 
The statements of Judge Tjoflat from the eleventh circuit has also been mentioned. But what do the judges on the D.C. circuit court say? It is one thing for Wilkinson to get up and make a comment, it is another thing for Tjoflat, who has problems in that circuit, but what do the judges on the D.C. circuit say? Both Chief Judge Edwards and Judge Silberman, a respected conservative, agree that, in Judge Silberman's words `it would be a mistake, a serious mistake for Congress to reduce the D.C. circuit down below 11 judges.' 
If I did not believe that, I would not have brought this judgeship nomination to the floor. I have to tell you, if anybody doubts my integrity, I want to see them afterwards. 
As for the statistics that have been cited, with all due respect, they are not a fair or accurate characterization of the D.C. circuit's caseload relative to the other circuits' caseloads. I made that case earlier. 
I am prepared to yield back the time if the other side is prepared to yield back their time. Is there anybody going to want to speak on the other side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am prepared to yield back time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to lay it on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I want to thank my colleagues who voted for Judge Merrick Garland. I believe they did what was right. 
With regard to Federal judgeships, we ought to do what is right. I take this job as seriously as anything I have ever done in the Senate. I want to thank my colleagues who voted with us for supporting the nominee. 
Having said that, there have been a serious number of nominees whom we have confirmed in the past who have proven to be activist judges once they got on the bench and who told us when they were before the committee they would not be activist and they would not undermine the role of the judiciary by legislating from the bench. Then they get to the bench and they start legislating from the bench. 
I want them to know, and I want to send a warning to the judiciary right now, if they are going to continue to disregard the law, if they are going to continue, in many respects, to bypass the democratic processes of this country, if they are going to start substituting their own policy preferences for what the law really says, then it is going to be a tough time around here. This vote proves it. 
I don't feel good about all those who voted against this nomination, but the fact of the matter is that there is some reason for their doing so. Republicans are fed up with these judges who disregard the role of judging once they get to the courts, after having told us and promised that they will abide by the role of judging. Now, I am upset--there is no question about that--because I think the finest nominee that I have seen from this administration is Merrick Garland, and I think he deserved better. But I also understand my colleagues. 
I am sending a warning out right now that these judges who are sitting on the bench better start thinking about the role of judging and quit trying to do our jobs. We have to stand for reelection. That is why the buck should stop here--not with some Federal judge who is doing what he or she thinks is better for humanity and mankind. 
We have judges on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals who could care less about what the Congress says, or what the President says, or what the legislative and executive branches say. That is why they are reversed so routinely by the Supreme Court. It is pathetic. I don't mean to single them out, but it is the most glaring example of activist judges in this country. 
Let me just say this. I am sending a message right now that I intend to move forward with judges, and, if this administration will send decent people up here who will abide by the rule of judging and the rule of law and quit substituting their own policy preferences and finding excuses for every criminal that comes before them, they are going to have support from me. I hope they will have more support from the Judiciary Committee in the future. But if they are going to send up more activists, there is going to be war. 
I don't think the judiciary has ever had a better friend than Orrin Hatch; I know they haven't. I will fight for them. I think they ought to be getting more pay. I think we ought to support them in every way we possibly can. They are tough jobs, they are cloistered jobs. They are difficult jobs. They take great intellectual acumen and ability. 
Madam President, I am telling you, we have far too many judges on both the left and the right who disregard what the rule of judging is and who legislate from the bench as superlegislators in black robes who disregard the democratic processes in this country and who do whatever they feel like doing. They are undermining the judiciary, and they are putting the judiciary in this country in jeopardy. I am darn sick of it. My colleagues on our side are 
sick of it. I don't care whether it is activism from the right or from the left; it is wrong. We ought to stop it, and the judiciary is the only place where it can be stopped. 
I once had one of the most eminent legal thinkers in the country say that he has never seen anybody on the Supreme Court move to the right; they have always moved to the left as they have grown. I would like to not worry about whether they are moving right or left, but whether they are doing the job that judges should do. 
I am serving notice to the Senate, too. I am chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and I take this responsibility seriously. I want everybody in this body to know I take it seriously. It means a lot to me. I have tried a lot of cases in Federal courts. I have tried a lot of cases in State courts. I have a lot of respect for the judiciary. So I take this seriously, and I don't want politics ever to be played with it. I get a little tired of the other side bleating about politics, after the years and years of their mistreatment of Reagan and Bush judges and the glaring, inexcusable examples where they treated Republican nominees in a shamefully unfair way. Nobody could ever forget the Rehnquist nomination, the Bork nomination, and even the Souter nomination, where he wasn't treated quite as well as he should have been--and above all, the Clarence Thomas nomination; it was abysmal. Those were low points in Senate history. So I don't think either side has a right to start bleating about who is righteous on judges. 
I intend to do the best I can here. I want my colleagues to know that. I certainly want to place my colleagues on my side, and I certainly want to do the right thing for all concerned. This is an important nomination. I believe Merrick Garland will go on to distinction. Nobody will be more disappointed than I if he turns out to be an activist judge in the end. If he does, I think he will be one of the principal underminers in the Federal judiciary in the history of this country. But he told me he will not do that, and I trust that he will not. That doesn't mean we have to agree on every case that comes before any of these courts; we are going to have disagreements. And just because you disagree with one judge doesn't mean that judge should be impeached either. To throw around the issue of impeachment because you disagree with a judge here and there is wrong. 
There are some lame-brained decisions out there, we all know that. Some of them are occurring primarily in California. Frankly, we have to get rid of the politics with regard to judges and start doing what's right. With every fiber of my body, I am going to try to do right with respect to judges because I respect that branch so much. To me, our freedoms would not have been preserved without that branch. But the way some of these judges are acting, our freedoms are being eroded by some in that branch. It is time for them to wake up and realize that that has to end. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a measure to further the commitment of the Republican Congress to support the expansion of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, one of the best examples of proven youth crime prevention. I am pleased to be joined in introducing this bill by a bipartisan group of Senators, including Senator Biden, the ranking Democrat on the Youth Violence Subcommittee, Senator Stevens, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Gregg, the chairman of the Commerce, Justice, State Appropriations Subcommittee, and Senator Kohl, who serves on the Judiciary Committee. 
Our legislation addresses our continuing initiative to ensure that, with Federal seed money, the Boys and Girls Clubs of America are able to expand to serve an additional 1 million young people through at least 2,500 clubs by the year 2000. The dedication of all of these Members demonstrates our commitment to both authorize and fund this effort. 
Last year, in a bipartisan effort, the Republican Congress enacted legislation I authored to authorize $100 million in Federal seed money over 5 years to establish and expand Boys and Girls Clubs in public housing and distressed areas throughout our country. With the help of the Appropriations Committee, we have fully funded this initiative. 
The bill we are introducing today streamlines the application process for these funds, and permits a small amount of the funds to be used to establish a role model speakers' program to encourage and motivate young people nationwide. 
It is important to note that what we are providing is seed money for the construction and expansion of clubs to serve our young people. This is bricks and mortar money to open clubs, and after they are opened they will operate without any significant Federal funds. In my view, this is a model for the proper role of the Federal Government in crime prevention. The days are over when we can afford vast never-ending federally run programs. According to a GAO report last year, over the past 30 years, Congress has created 131 separate Federal programs, administered by 16 different agencies, to serve delinquent and at-risk youth. 
These programs cost $4 billion in fiscal year 1995. Yet we have not made significant progress in keeping our young people away from crime and drugs. 
What we can and must afford is short-term, solid support for proven private sector programs like the Boys and Girls Clubs that really do make a difference. Boys and Girls Clubs are among the most effective nationwide programs to assist youth to grow into honest, caring, involved, and law-abiding adults. 
We know that Boys and Girls Clubs work. Researchers at Columbia University found that public housing developments in which there was an active Boys and Girls Club had a 25 percent reduction in the presence of crack cocaine, a 22 percent reduction in overall drug activity, and a 13 percent reduction in juvenile crime. Members of Boys and Girls Clubs also do better in school, are less attracted to gangs, and feel better about themselves. 
Distinguished alumni of Boys and Girls Clubs include role models such as actor Denzel Washington, basketball superstar Michael Jordan, and San Francisco 49ers quarterback Steve Young. 
More important, however, are the uncelebrated success stories--the miracles performed by Boys and Girls Clubs every day. At a Judiciary Committee hearing today, we have some of these miracles with us. Amador Guzman, from my State of Utah, told us how he believes the club in his neighborhood saved his life, by keeping him from gangs, drugs, and violence. 
The reason Boys and Girls Clubs work, and the Republican Congress wants to do more for them is because they are locally run, and depend mostly on community involvement for their success. 
Never have our youth had a greater need for the positive influence of Boys and Girls Clubs, and never has the work of the clubs been more critical. Our young people are being assaulted from all sides with destructive messages. For instance, drug use is on the rise. Recent statistics reconfirm that drugs are ensnaring young people as never before. Overall drug use by youth ages 12 to 17 rose 105 percent between 1992 and 1995, and 33 percent between 1994 and 1995; 10.9 percent of our young people now use drugs on a monthly basis, and monthly use of marijuana is up 37 percent, monthly use of LSD is up 54 percent, and monthly cocaine use by youth is up 166 percent between 1994 and 1995. 
Our young people are also being assaulted by gangs. By some estimates, there are more than 3,875 youth gangs, with 200,000 members, in the Nation's 79 largest cities, and the numbers are going up. Even my State of Utah has not been immune from this scourge. In Salt Lake City, since 1992, the number of identified gangs has increased 55 percent, from 185 to 288. The number of gang members has increased 146 percent, from 1,438 to 3545; and the number of gang-related crimes has increased a staggering 279 percent, from 1741 in 1992 to 6611 in 1996. Shockingly, 208 of these involved drive-by shootings. 
Every day, our young people are being bombarded with cultural messages in music, movies, and television that undermine the development of core values of citizenship. Popular culture and the media glorify drug use, meaningless violence, and sex without commitment. 
The importance of Boys and Girls Clubs in fighting drug abuse, gang recruitment, and moral poverty cannot be overstated. The clubs across the country are a bulwark for our young people and deserve all the support we can give. 
Indeed, Federal efforts are already paying off. Using over $15 million in seed money appropriated for fiscal year 1996, the Boys and Girls Clubs of America opened 208 new clubs in 1996. These clubs are providing positive places of hope, safety, learning, and encouragement for about 180,000 more kids today than in 1995. In my state of Utah, these funds have helped keep an additional 6,573 kids away from gangs, drugs, and crime. 
The $20 million appropriated for fiscal year 1997 is expected to result in another 200 clubs and 200,000 more kids involved in clubs. We need now to redouble our efforts. The legislation we introduce today demonstrates our commitment to do that. I urge my colleagues to support it.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, along with my colleague, Senator Bennett, I am pleased to introduce the National Monument Fairness Act of 1997. This act will promote procedural fairness in the creation of national monuments on Federal and State lands under the Antiquities Act of 1906 and further congressional efforts in the area of environmental protection. Identical legislation is being introduced today in the House of Representatives by Congressman Jim Hansen with the support of Congressmen Merrill Cook and Christopher Cannon. 
As my colleagues know, on September 18, 1996, President Clinton invoked the Antiquities Act of 1906 to create the Grand Staircase/Escalante Canyons National Monument. The 1.7 million acre monument, larger in size than the States of Rhode Island and Delaware combined, locks up more than 200,000 acres of State lands, along with vast energy reserves located beneath the surface. 
Like the attack on Pearl Harbor, this massive proclamation came completely without notice to the public. Although State officials and members of the Utah congressional delegation were told that the Administration would consult us prior to making any change in the status of these lands, the President's announcement came as a complete surprise. The biggest Presidential land set-aside in almost 20 years was a sneak attack. 
Without any notification, let alone consultation or negotiation, with our Governor or State officials in Utah, the President set aside this acreage as a national monument by the stroke of his pen. Let me emphasize this point. There was no consultation, no hearings, no town meetings, no TV or radio discussion shows, no nothing. No input from Federal managers who work in Utah and manage our public lands. As I Stated last September, in all my 20 years in the U.S. Senate, I have never seen a clearer example of the arrogance of Federal power than the proclamation creating this monument. It continues to be the mother of all land grabs. 
We in Utah continue to work with the hand President Clinton has dealt us. That is, we are attempting to recognize and understand the constraints placed upon the future use of the land and resources contained within the monument's boundaries. We are trying to identify the various adverse effects this action will have on the surrounding communities. 
Personally, while I would have preferred a monument designation considerably smaller in scope, I could have enthusiastically supported a monument designation for the area covered by the proclamation had I been consulted prior to last September and invited to work with the President on a designation that was tailored to address the many concerns we have heard over the years on this acreage. Two of these concerns involve the 200,000 acres of school trust lands 
captured within the monument boundary and the locking up of 16 billion tons of recoverable, low-sulfur, clean-burning coal. 
Remember, our wilderness bill considered last year proposed designation of approximately one-quarter of this land as wilderness. I wanted to protect most of it; the people of Utah wanted to protect most of it. But, we were not consulted; we were not asked; our opinion was not sought. Rather, in an effort to score political points with a powerful interest group 48 days before a national election, President Clinton unilaterally acted. 
In taking this action in this way, the President did it all backwards. Instead of knowing how the decision would be carried out--and knowing the all ramifications of this implementation and the best ways to accommodate them--the President has designated the monument and now expects over the next 3 years to make the designation work. The formal designation ought to come after the discussion period. It is how we do things in this country. Unfortunately, however, the decision is now fait accompli, and we will deal with it as best we can. I hope the President will be there to help our people in rural Utah and our school system as the implementation of the designation order takes place. 
The legislation we are introducing today, the National Monument Fairness Act, is designed to correct the problems highlighted by the Clinton Antiquities Act proclamation in Utah. It will do this in two significant ways. 
First, the act makes a distinction between national monument proclamations greater in size than 5,000 acres, and those 5,000 acres and less. The President retains his almost unfettered authority under the Antiquities Act over monument designations 5,000 acres and less. Specifically, the Antiquities Act delegates to the President discretion to declare as a national monument that part of Federal land that contains historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific interest--but only as long as the declared area is confined to the `smallest area compatible with proper care and management of the objects to be protected.' The 5,000 acre limitation will give effect to this `smallest area compatible' clause, which both the courts and past Presidents have often ignored. 
For areas larger than 5,000 acres, the President must consult, through the Secretary of Interior, with the Governor of the State or States affected by the proposed proclamation. This consultation will prevent executive agencies from rolling over local concerns--local concerns that, under the dictates of modern land policy laws such as the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 [FLPMA] and the National Environmental Policy Act, certainly deserve to be aired. 
The National Monument Fairness Act also provides time constraints on the consultation requirement. From the date the Secretary of Interior submits the President's proposal to the appropriate State Governor, the Governor will have 90 days to respond with written comments. Ninety days after receiving the Governor's comments, the Secretary will then submit appropriate documentation, along with the Governor's written comments, to the Congress. If the Governor 
fails to comment on the proposal, the Secretary will submit it to the Congress after 180 days from the date of the President's proposal. These time constraints assure that the process will be fair. It will prevent State officials from unnecessarily delaying proposed proclamations, but will allow appropriate time for State and localities to voice their concerns through the Governor's comments on the President's actions. 
Consequently, the consultation requirement ensures that large monument designations will be made fairly, and in a manner that allows the participation, through their Governor, of the people most directly affected by the proclamation. 
Second, the National Monument Fairness Act allows all citizens of the United States to voice their concerns on large designations through Congress. The act provides that after the Secretary has presented the proposal, Congress must pass it into law and send it to the President for his signature before the proposal becomes final and effective. Thus, the Nation, through its elected representatives, will make the decision whether certain lands will become national monuments. This is the way our democracy ought to operate. Indeed, it furthers the intent of the Framers in the Constitution who anticipated that laws and actions affecting one or more individual States would be placed before the legislature and debated, with a State's representatives and senators able to defend the interests of their State. 
Mr. President, the purpose of our legislation is to ensure that a fair and thorough process is followed on any future large-scale monument designations under the authority granted in the Antiquities Act. Since Utah is home to many other areas of significant beauty and grandeur, I am concerned that this President or those within his administration, or a future President or administration, might consider using this authority in the same manner as last September. In other words, it will be `deja vu all over again.' We cannot afford to have the entire land area of our state subject to the whims of any President. Many have proposed plans, including myself, for these areas, that have been the subject of considerable public scrutiny and comment. The consensus building process must be allowed to continue without the threat that a Presidential pen will intervene to destroy any progress and goodwill that has been established or that may be underway among the citizens of our State. 
I am aware that Interior Secretary Babbitt stated publicly last month that `there are no plans for any additional executive withdrawals' during the remaining years of the Clinton administration. That is fine. However, as my colleagues know perfectly well, Secretary Babbitt told me and other members of our congressional delegation last December that there was no final decision to designate the Grand Staircase/Canyons of the Escalante Monument and that we, the congressional delegation, would be consulted prior to any designation. Since then, we have learned from press reports that many decisions leading to the monument announcement had already been made, if not finalized, prior to our meeting with the Secretary. 
But, regardless of whether the Clinton administration plans to designate any more monuments, I do not think it is unreasonable to look at the authorities contained in the Antiquities Act--particularly the authority that permits such sweeping and long-lasting changes 
for individual States and towns without State input and congressional approval. That is the issue. 
That is why we are introducing this legislation today. This matter of due process for State and local officials--as well as for small business people, ranchers, school systems, and many others affected by locking up lands--is an issue about which I believe all Senators and Congressmen need to be concerned. While Senators representing the so-called public lands States may need to pay particular attention, if the long arm of the Federal Government can do this to Utah without so much as a day's notice, it can do it to your State as well. 
It is time we incorporate some common sense protections for all States into the Antiquities Act. I continue to believe that last September's act was a Federal land grab, and I unwilling to stand by and let it happen again in my State or any other State without a fair and proper airing in the court of public opinion. 
Some may ask why this legislation focuses only on proposed areas over 5,000 acres. First, it is not our desire to completely withdraw the authority granted the President in the 1906 act. But, the original act is clear when it States that this authority should be limited to `the smallest area' possible. In my mind, this authority should be available for those areas that are small in nature that may require quick or emergency protection for which a monument designation is warranted. That is how I envision this authority being used. 
Second, there is already precedence in Federal law for 5,000 acres as the threshold amount for determining certain pending or future Federal action or consequence. For example, the Wilderness Act of 1964 defines wilderness as having `at least 5,000 acres of land.' Also, FLPMA authorizes the Secretary to withdraw 5,000 acres or more for up to 20 years `on his own motion or upon request by a department or agency head.' And, there is reference to `roadless areas of 5,000 acres or more' in that section of FLPMA that authorizes the 15-year Bureau of Land Management wilderness study process. 
I am sure that any detractors of this bill will State that had our bill been enacted in the past, some of the Nation's most gorgeous and long lasting monuments would never have been designated as a national monument. I would say two things to this point. 
First, our bill will not prevent the establishment of any monument consisting of 5,000 acres or more. The bill simply modifies the process by which proposed monuments of acreage above this amount can be designated. Second, and most importantly, I understand that there are 72 national monuments in the United States. Of that number, only one-third, or 24, have a total acreage figure greater than 5,000 acres. Enactment of our bill will not bring a halt to the ability of Congress--or even the President--to designate national monuments. 
In addition, I realize that some of our existing national parks, such as Arches and Canyonlands National Parks in Utah, were originally established as national monuments, only to be designated a park afterward. It is not fair to say that had our bill been in law prior to the designation of these monuments that parks like Arches and Canyonlands or the Grand Canyon 
National Park would never have been designated. Certainly, any monument proposal consisting of more than 5,000 acres that is proposed by the President where a consensus exists within Congress that such a designation is warranted would be favorably received and acted upon by Congress. And, at least home State senators and representatives have a voice. In many cases, it is likely that they would pursue a designation of these areas prior to the President exercising his authority under the Antiquities Act. 
But, let's not lose focus of the purposes of this bill. We simply want to ensure that a public process is undertaken prior to any large monument designation under the Antiquities Act. As I stated earlier, we conduct such a process whenever a similar proposal is introduced in Congress; why can't Congress insist that it be done when the President desires to achieve the same purpose? 
I mentioned that we are in the process of recognizing and understanding the constraints this proclamation will place on the economic and social aspects of the surrounding communities. When an area the size of the Grand Staircase-Escalante Canyons National Monument is withdrawn from public use and given a special designation, there are many ramifications that need to be addressed, the burden of which falls primarily on the shoulders of the local community. These include the following items: 
First, county land-use plans will have to be studied and amended to address necessary changes relating to the new monument. 
Second, consideration of the transportation improvements required to improve the existing inadequate transportation system to access the new monument for visitors to the area. 
Third, increased visitation to the area will place greater burden on services provided by local government, such as law enforcement, fire, emergency, search-and-rescue, and solid waste collection. 
Fourth, increased visitation to the area will place greater burden on the proper disposition of limited natural resources, such as water, both for culinary and irrigation purposes. 
These are just a few items that are currently being discussed and reviewed by local leaders in the area of the new national monument. These are not trivial matters; they are critical to continuing the livelihood of the cities and towns in the area. So, no one should think that creating a new monument of this size, as endearing a concept as that is, does not create significant matters that must be addressed. 
Of course, the other consequence the creation of this monument has created which continues to be of utmost concern to me is the final disposition of the State school trust lands captured within the monument's boundaries. The inability to access the natural resources contained on these lands will have a devastating impact on providing crucial funds to Utah's public school educational system. The Utah Congress of Parents and Teachers has indicated that `the income from the mineral resources within the Monument could have made a significant difference in the funding of Utah schools now and for many generations to come.' It remains to 
be seen the manner in which the President will fulfill the promises he made to the children of Utah last September when he created the new monument. Specifically, he said `creating this national monument should not and will not come at the expense of Utah's children.' He also added that it is his desire to `both protect the natural heritage of Utah's children and ensure them a quality educational heritage.' I am eager to work with him to fulfill these promises. 
I mention these items to simply paint a picture for my colleagues that there are many pieces to the monument puzzle that remain to be resolved. The President can come to town--or 75 miles to the south in another State--and designate a monument, but Utahns are left to pick up the pieces of his action to make sure that it works--and that it works properly. That is what I want, and I am sure that is what the President wants. 
Finally, Mr. President, I must point out that the adoption of this act will likely result in more stringent environmental protection of Federal lands. The most ironic fact of the administration's monument designation in Utah is that national monuments permit a greater level of activity than does a wilderness designation. Last year, the Utah delegation proposed that 2.1 million acres of land on and around the Grand Staircase/Escalante Canyons area be declared wilderness, under the language of the Wilderness Act of 1964. The wilderness designation is far more stringent than the administration's monument designation and prevents the construction of the roads and visitors centers envisioned under the monument designation. The Utah proposal of the 104th Congress included more area than BLM had officially recommended to Congress following its 13-year inventory of the lands in Southern Utah. This is yet another compelling reason why it is vital for local and State officials to be consulted prior to national monument declarations. 
Mr. President, the Antiquities Act is antiquated. It needs to be updated. It can be amended in a manner consistent with today's pressing land policy concerns without destroying the original intent behind the act. That is what we have proposed in this legislation and why I urge passage of the National Monument Fairness Act of 1997. This bill will preserve the President's ability to act to protect lands of historic and scientific significance that are threatened with development. However, the act will promote greater environmental stewardship by forcing the executive branch to consider the views of local and State officials prior to making large-scale changes in land designation and management. 
Finally, the requirement that massive monument proposals be passed through the Congress, under the strictures of article I of the Constitution, will ensure that all Americans have a say in land policy decisions that fundamentally change the Nation. And, this, Mr. President, may be the most compelling reason of all to enact this measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, under Federal law, the Attorney General may conduct a preliminary investigation to determine whether to apply to the special division of the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit for appointment of an independent counsel whenever she receives specific information from a credible source constituting grounds for investigating whether a Federal criminal law was violated by a specified category of executive branch officials, or where she determines that there are grounds for investigating whether a criminal law has been violated, and conducting the investigation would create a conflict of interest. If, after conducting a preliminary investigation, the Attorney General determines that further investigation is warranted, she shall apply for the appointment of an independent counsel. The appointment of an independent counsel is a serious matter and one which the Attorney General should only initiate when necessary. That is why I, and many others, had refrained from joining the assortment of calls for Attorney General Reno to appoint an independent counsel in connection with the 1996 Presidential campaign. 
Yet, last week, all 10 Republicans on the Judiciary Committee felt the time had come to request such an appointment. We sent a letter to the Attorney General, as we are authorized to do by the independent counsel statute, requesting that she make an application for an independent counsel. 
I must confess, as I did then, to a degree of frustration with the Independent Counsel Act. Did I appreciate having to send our letter? Certainly not. However, the law sets forth a specific process by which Congress is to request that the Attorney General begin the process by which an independent counsel is appointed, and this process requires the Judiciary Committee to make what the other party will inevitably characterize as partisan charges in order to trigger the Attorney General's responsibilities. In order for Congress to trigger the most preliminary steps for the Department of Justice to take to consider the need for an independent counsel, the law essentially provides that the party not in control of the executive branch make specific charges when and if the Attorney General fails to act on her own. I would have preferred to have had the Attorney General seek an independent counsel on her own. But she has not done so. At the very least, I would have preferred that she conduct a preliminary investigation on her own. But she has refused to do even this. I would have preferred to have requested that she seek an independent counsel without having to set forth, in such a public manner as the law requires, the specific and credible evidence which warrants such an appointment. But in order for us to require the Attorney General to take certain minimal steps toward investigating whether an independent counsel is warranted, we were required by law to send our letter. In short, the Independent Counsel Act is the law of the land and, notwithstanding its relative flaws, we on the Judiciary Committee have an obligation 
to abide by it. 
I am hopeful that Attorney General Reno, for whom I continue to have great respect, will appreciate the concerns set forth in our letter, and will agree that an independent counsel should be appointed forthwith to investigate these matters. Recent developments have, I believe, made clear that a thorough Justice Department investigation into possible fundraising violations in connection with the 1996 Presidential campaign will raise an inherent conflict of interest, and certainly raises at least the appearance of such a conflict, and that the appointment of an independent counsel is therefore required to ensure public confidence in the integrity of our electoral process and system of justice. 
With respect to the proposed alternative resolution proposed by some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, Senate Joint Resolution 23, I must oppose this resolution. This resolution comes on the heels of a letter some of my Democrat colleagues have written to the Attorney General urging her, should she decide to apply for an independent counsel, to request an independent counsel who will investigate the `full scope of fundraising irregularities.' They argued in that letter that the Attorney General should `avoid partisanship' by instructing the independent counsel to investigate Republicans who have `skirted the spirit' of the law. I appreciate what my colleagues were doing with their letter and I appreciate what they are doing with this resolution. Their loyalty to their political party is duly noted. But, as I have said repeatedly, the appointment of an independent counsel is a serious matter and partisan proportionality should not be a consideration. Would these Senators have sent this letter had the majority not sent its letter? Would we be debating their resolution had the majority leader not turned to his resolution? I think we all know the answer to that question. Furthermore, neither their letter nor their resolution cite any congressional activities which independently warrant an independent counsel nor do they actually urge the Attorney General to appoint an independent counsel. 
The resolution before the Senate expresses the Sense of the Congress that the Attorney General should do only as she pleases. But, it goes on to provide, if she does decide to initiate the independent counsel process, the Attorney General should be sure to include Members of Congress. It seems my colleagues want to have the best of both worlds. It appears from the language of their alternative resolution that they do not want to go on record as having asked for an independent counsel. But, heaven forbid, should an independent counsel be appointed, he or she should be instructed to initiate a partisan fishing expedition of Congress. 
The Democrats' proposal that an independent counsel, if appointed, should have jurisdiction to investigate Members of Congress is insupportable under the independent counsel statute. 
The entire purpose of the statute is to avoid the existence or appearance of a conflict of interest in Justice Department investigations. This conflict is inherent whenever an investigation involves any of the high-ranking executive branch officials enumerated in 28 U.S.C. 591(a), and may also arise--and indeed has been found by the Attorney General to have arisen--when an investigation involves other executive branch officials. 28 U.S.C. 
591(c)(1). Such a conflict plainly does not, however, ordinarily exist with respect to Justice Department investigations of Members of Congress. As the Senate Report on the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act states: 
. . . no inherent conflict exists in Justice Department investigations and prosecutions of Members of Congress. This conflict does not exist, because the Attorney General is not part of the legislative branch and is not under the control of any Member of Congress. The Department also has a long history of successful prosecutions of Members of Congress. . . . Public perception of a conflict of interest is also not a problem. . . . Also, in 1993, the Department of Justice testified that no inherent conflict of interests in its prosecuting Members of Congress. . . . 
The statute does provide that the Attorney General may conduct a preliminary investigation with respect to a Member of Congress where first `the Attorney General receives information sufficient to constitute grounds to investigate whether a Member of Congress may have violated' a Federal criminal law, and second the Attorney General `determines that it would be in the public interest' to conduct a preliminary investigation. 28 United States Code 591(c)(2). Neither of these two required findings are even suggested by the Democrats' proposed resolution, nor does it appear that they could even arguably be present here. 
First, the Democrats have made no specific allegations that a Member of Congress has violated a criminal law, thus warranting further investigation. Whereas the Attorney General has for over 3 months been conducting an extensive investigation into alleged fundraising violations by members of the Democratic National Committee [DNC] and the executive branch, I am aware of no such investigation pertaining to Members of Congress, and the Democrats' proposed resolution does not even purport to make such allegations. The independent counsel statute plainly does not authorize the appointment of an independent counsel with jurisdiction to go on an undefined fishing expedition to dig up unspecified violations by Members of Congress. 
Second, I can imagine no reason--and my Democrat colleagues have suggested none--why it would be in the public interest to initiate independent counsel proceedings with respect to Members of Congress. The legislative history clearly indicates that there are two instances when independent counsel proceedings are in the public interest under section 591(c)(2). The first is where there would be a real or apparent conflict of interest for the Attorney General to investigate a Member of Congress. While we could imagine that there might be instances in which an Attorney General would have a conflict in investigating Members of Congress of the same party, only in the most extraordinary circumstance would an Attorney General have a conflict in investigating Members of the other party. In any event, we are confident that this Attorney General is fully capable of investigating Members of Congress of both parties. 
The third reason for initiating independent counsel proceedings with respect to Members of Congress is when `there is a danger of disparate treatment if the case were handled by the Department of Justice,' such that `a Member of Congress were unfairly subjected to a more rigorous application of criminal law than other citizens.' This danger, however, clearly does not arise with respect to allegations that laws regulating the fundraising activities of public officials have been violated; if the law only applies to public officials, there is no possibility of disparate treatment between Members of Congress and private citizens. In any event, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have not even attempted to articulate why there would be a danger of disparate treatment if the Justice Department were to investigate Members of Congress. 
In closing, Attorney General Reno has appointed four independent counsels to date. It is the sense of a majority of the members of the Judiciary Committee that the need to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest, and thereby to ensure the public's confidence in our system of justice, requires an independent counsel in connection with the 1996 Presidential campaign. However, the record does not warrant, nor does the law permit, the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate Congress. Accordingly, I urge my colleagues to oppose Senate Joint Resolution 23. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, there is a right way and a wrong way of reforming our system of campaign finance. The Hollings proposal to amend our Constitution is simply the wrong way. It would, in effect, amend the first amendment to our Constitution to allow any reasonable restrictions to be placed on independent campaign expenditures and contributions. Why does he propose that we amend the first amendment? Because the Supreme Court of the United States has held that restrictions on independent expenditures violate the first amendment's free speech protection and that such restrictions could only be justified upon a showing of a compelling--as opposed to any reasonable--reason. 
The Hollings amendment would gut the free speech protections of the first amendment. It would allow the curtailing of independent campaign expenditures that could overcome the natural advantage that incumbents have. It would, thus, limit free speech and virtually guarantee that incumbents be reelected. Thus, the Hollings amendment could change the very nature of our constitutional democratic form of Government by establishing what the Founders of the Republic feared most: A permanent elite or ruling oligarchy that dominates us all. Let me explain. 
The very purpose of the first amendment's free speech clause is to ensure that the people's elected officials effectively and genuinely represent the public. For elections to be a real check on Government, free speech must be guaranteed--both to educate the public about the issues, and to allow differing view points to compete in what Oliver Wendell Holmes called the market place of ideas. 
Simply put, without free speech, Government cannot be predicated upon, what Thomas Jefferson termed, `the consent of the governed.' Without free speech, there can be no government based on consent because consent can never be informed. 
The Supreme Court of the United States recognized this fundamental principle of democracy in the 1976 case of Buckley versus Valeo, 424 U.S. 1 (1976). The Court in Buckley recognized that free speech is meaningless unless it is effective. In the words of Justice White, `money talks.' Unless you can get your ideas into the public domain, all the homilies and hosannas to freedom of speech are just talk. Thus, the Supreme Court held that campaign contributions and expenditures are speech--or intrinsically related to speech--and that regulating of such funds must be restrained by the prohibitions of the first amendment. 
The Buckley Court made a distinction between campaign contributions and campaign expenditures. The Court found that free speech interests in campaign contributions are marginal at best because they convey only a generalized expression of support. But independent expenditures are another matter. These are given higher first amendment protection because they are direct expressions of speech. 
Consequently, because contributions are tangential to free speech, Congress has a sizeable latitude to regulate them in order to prevent fraud and corruption. But not so with independent expenditures. In the words of the Court:  
A restriction on the amount of money a person or group can spend necessarily reduces the quantity of expression by restricting the number of issues discussed, the depth of their exploration, and the size of the audience reached. This is because virtually every means of communicating in today's mass society requires the expenditure of money. 
The Hollings amendment's allowance of restrictions on expenditures by Congress and State legislatures would impose direct and substantial restraints on the quantity of political speech. It would permit placing drastic limitations on both individuals and groups from spending money to disseminate their own ideas as to which candidate should be supported and what cause is just. The Supreme Court noted that such restrictions on expenditures, even if neutral as to the ideas expressed, limit political expression at the core of our electoral process and of the first amendment freedoms. 
Indeed, even candidates under the Hollings proposal could be restricted in engaging in protected first amendment expression. 
Justice Brandeis observed, in Whitney versus California, that in our Republic, `public discussion is a political duty,' and that duty will be circumscribed where a candidate is prevented from spending his or her own money to spread the electoral message. That a candidate has a first amendment right to engage in public issues and advocate particular positions was considered by the Buckley Court to be of `particular importance. . . candidates [must] have the unfettered opportunity to make their views known so that the electorate may intelligently evaluate the candidates' personal qualities and their positions on vital public issues before choosing among them on election day.' 
Campaign finance reform should not be at the expense of free speech. This amendment, in trying to reduce the costs of political campaigns--a noble goal, I can say--could cost us so much more; it could cost us our heritage of political liberty. Without free speech, our Republic could become a tyranny. Even the liberal American Civil Liberties Union opposes Senator Hollings-type approaches to campaign reform and calls such approaches a `recipe for repression.' 
Mr. President, the simple truth is that there are just too many on the other side of the aisle that believe that the first amendment is inconsistent with campaign finance reform. That is why they are pushing the Hollings proposal. To quote House minority leader Richard Gephardt, `[w]hat we have is two important values in direct conflict: freedom of speech and our desire for a healthy campaign in a healthy democracy. You can't have both.' 
Well, I strongly disagree. You can have both. We have to have both. Without both, the very idea of representative democracy is imperiled. That is why I oppose the Hollings amendment. I think the distinguished Member of the House, Mr. Gephardt, is just absolutely wrong. I think if we change the Constitution to denigrate the first amendment, we would be absolutely wrong and it would fly in the face of what really ought to be done in campaign finance reform, which all of us would like to have. But until it can be done in a balanced, reasonable way that doesn't prefer one side over the other, it will never be done. That is one of the problems. We cannot get it done in a balanced, decent way that really evens the odds for everybody in our society, rather than stacking them in favor of one side or the other. 
Having said all this, I want to pay tribute to my colleague, our floor leader on this matter. He has taken a lot of flack from the media that always seems to stand up for first amendment rights and freedoms, until it comes to this issue. Frankly, I have a lot of respect for our colleague from Kentucky and the guts he has had to stand up for free speech and for first amendment rights more than any other single Member of Congress. He did it in his campaign when they made this a major focal effort of the campaign, and he still won by a considerable margin over the opponent who was making this a focal point. 
I think we can have campaign finance reform, but we won't have it until it is fair, balanced, until it effects all parties and candidates. And we won't have it, as far as I am concerned, unless we protect free speech rights the way they ought to be protected. 
Again, I compliment my colleague and express my support for his position on the floor at this time. I express regret to my friend from South Carolina that I can't support him on this 
constitutional amendment. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry be allowed to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, at 9 a.m. in SR-328A to receive testimony regarding agriculture research reauthorization. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, at 10 a.m. in open session, to receive testimony from the unified commanders on their military strategies and operational requirements in review of the defense authorization request for fiscal year 1998 and the future years defense program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, to conduct a markup on S. 318, the `Homeowners Protection Act of 1997,' and of certain pending nominations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full Committee on Environment and Public Works be granted permission to conduct a hearing Tuesday, March 18, at 9:30 a.m., Hearing Room (SD-406) on proposals to authorize State and local governments to enact flow control laws and to regulate the interstate transportation of solid waste. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary would ask unanimous consent to hold a nominations hearing on Tuesday, March 18, at 2:30 p.m., in Room 226, of the Senate Dirksen Office Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Labor and Human Resources be authorized to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, at 9 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Labor and Human Resources be authorized to meet for a hearing on the presidential nomination of Alexis M. Herman to be Secretary of Labor, during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, at 2 p.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs of the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, at 10 a.m. to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Oceans and Fisheries Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized to meet on Tuesday, March 18, 1997, at 2:30 p.m. on review of U.S. Coast Guard fiscal year 1998 budget and reauthorization. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970314</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I rise today to speak on Senate Joint Resolution 22 which expresses the sense of the Congress that the Attorney General should apply for the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate allegations of illegal fundraising in the 1996 Presidential election campaign. 
Under Federal law, the Attorney General may apply to the special division of the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit for appointment of an independent counsel whenever, after completion of a preliminary investigation, she finds that a conflict of interest exists or when she finds evidence that a specific category of individuals within the executive branch may have violated Federal law. The appointment of an independent counsel is a serious matter and one which the Attorney General should only initiate when necessary. That is why I, and many others, had refrained from joining the assortment of calls for Attorney General Reno to appoint an independent counsel in connection with the 1996 Presidential campaign. 
Yet, yesterday, all 10 Republicans on the Judiciary Committee felt the time had come to request such an appointment. We sent a letter to the Attorney General, as authorized by the independent counsel statute, requesting that she make an application for an independent counsel. I ask unanimous consent that a copy of our letter to the Attorney General be printed at the appropriate place in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970314</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We did that with due deliberation, without any desire to hurt anybody and without any desire to do other than to help the Attorney General make this decision. 
I must confess to a degree of frustration with the Independent Counsel Act. Did I appreciate having to send our letter? Certainly not. However, the law sets forth a specific process by which Congress is to request that the Attorney General begin the process by which an independent counsel is appointed, and this process requires the Judiciary Committee to make what the other party will inevitably characterize as partisan charges in order to trigger the Attorney General's responsibilities. In order for Congress to trigger the most preliminary steps for the Department of Justice to take to consider the need for an independent counsel, the law essentially provides that the party not in control of the executive branch make specific charges when and if the Attorney General fails to act on her own. I would have preferred to have had the Attorney General seek an independent counsel on her own. But she has not done so. At the very least, I would have preferred that she conduct a preliminary investigation on her own. But she has refused to do even this. I would have preferred to have requested that she seek an independent counsel without having to set forth, in such a public manner as the law requires, the specific and credible evidence which warrants such an appointment. But in order for us to require the Attorney General to take certain minimal steps toward investigating whether an independent counsel is warranted, we were required by law to send our letter. In short, the Independent Counsel Act is the law of the land and, notwithstanding its relative flaws, we on the Judiciary Committee have an obligation to abide by it. 
At last week's Judiciary Committee executive business meeting, I had hoped to vote on a resolution expressing the committee's sense that an independent counsel should be appointed, and directing that I draft and circulate a letter requesting that the Attorney General apply for such an appointment. I had been led to believe that a committee vote on a resolution calling for an independent counsel would have broad bipartisan support. Yet, my colleague, Senator Leahy--the committee's ranking member--indicated that, in light of the short notice they received about the proposed resolution, he and his colleagues wished to hold the resolution over until the committee's next business meeting. I readily acceded to their request. 
It was not an unreasonable request. And besides, I was asked to begin this process just an evening before myself, and I had not had the opportunity to discuss it with Senator Leahy. So there was absolutely no offense. It was something I was willing to do and readily did because I thought it was a reasonable, decent request. 
Without getting into the details of our ensuing discussions, it became clear that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to formulate a resolution on which both sides of the aisle could agree. Furthermore, I felt it was best to avoid a prolonged discussion of this matter in committee given that it was unlikely consensus could be reached. Accordingly, I decided to proceed directly to drafting and circulating a letter to the Attorney General as I had originally planned. The letter went through a number of variations. 
We tried to please people, we tried to resolve problems, and I think we have. 
Unfortunately, we were unable to reach agreement with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle because we could not reach agreement on whether the committee should actually request the appointment of an independent counsel. Accordingly, I circulated a letter to all members of the committee and a majority of the committee's members signed on. 
I remain persuaded that the appointment of an independent counsel is both called for under the independent counsel statute and responsive to the views of most Americans, who would like to be assured that these very serious allegations are investigated in a fair and thorough way, and without any real or apparent conflict of interest. 
I am hopeful that Attorney General Reno, for whom I continue to have great respect, will appreciate the concerns set forth in our letter, and will agree that an independent counsel should be appointed forthwith to investigate these matters. 
Recent developments have, I believe, made clear that a thorough Justice Department investigation into possible fundraising violations in connection with the 1996 Presidential campaign will raise an inherent conflict of interest, and certainly raises at least the appearance of such a conflict, and that the appointment of an independent counsel is therefore required to ensure public confidence in the integrity of our electoral process and system of justice. 
Madam President, recent revelations have demonstrated how the DNC was, as the New York Times wrote, `virtually a subsidiary of the White House.' That was on February 27, 1997, just a few weeks back. Without restating the points covered in our letter and without questioning in the slightest the integrity, professionalism or independence of the Attorney General or the individuals conducting the present Justice Department fundraising investigation, the fact that the Department's investigation will inescapably take it to the highest levels of the executive branch presents an inherent conflict of interest calling for the appointment of an independent counsel under title 28 United States Code section 591(c)(1). 
Further, the answer to whether criminal wrongdoing has occurred will of necessity turn on the resolution of disputed factual, legal, and state of mind determinations. In particular, I would note that there remains the significant factual question of the extent to which the allegedly improper fundraising activity was, in fact, directed toward benefiting Federal campaigns, especially when some of this activity was, by admission, paid for by the Clinton-Gore campaign. Because the inquiry necessary to make these determinations will inescapably involve high level executive branch officials, they should, I believe, be left to an independent counsel in order to avoid a real or apparent conflict of interest. Moreover, where individuals covered by the independent counsel statute are involved, as they plainly were here, see title 28 United States Code section 591(b), the Ethics in Government Act requires that these inquiries be conducted by an independent counsel. 
In any event, both prudence and the American people's ability to have confidence that the investigation remains free of a conflict of interest, warrants the appointment of an independent counsel. 
More importantly, the emerging story regarding the possibility that foreign contributions were funneled into U.S. election coffers to influence U.S. foreign policy further highlights the conflict of interest the Attorney General's ongoing investigation inescapably confronts. I delivered a floor speech earlier in the week spelling out my concerns, so I will not restate them here. They are detailed in the letter which I have placed in the Record. It is clear, however, that these issues cannot be properly investigated without a conflict of interest, since investigating most of these questions will require inquiring into the knowledge and/or conduct of individuals at the highest levels of the executive branch. Moreover, several of the principal figures in this investigation, including the Riadys and the Lippo Group and Charlie Trie, reportedly have longstanding ties to our President. 
Indeed, the conflicts at issue here are precisely the sort of inherent conflict[s] of interest to which the Attorney General testified during Senate hearings in 1993 on the reenactment of the Independent Counsel Act. Avoiding an actual or perceived conflict of interest was the basis, not just for the application for the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate James McDougal, but also for the recent requests to extend that counsel's jurisdiction to include the investigations of Anthony Marceca and Bernard Nussbaum. As the Attorney General herself testified, applying for an independent counsel, and our request that she make such application, in no way detracts from the integrity and independence of the Attorney General or the career prosecutors presently investigating these allegations. 
A final point should be made. Some of my Democrat colleagues have written to the Attorney General urging her, should she decide to apply for an independent counsel, to request an independent counsel who will investigate the full scope of fundraising irregularities. They argue that she should avoid partisanship by instructing the independent counsel to investigate Republicans who have skirted the spirit of the law. I appreciate what my colleagues are trying to do, and their loyalty to their political party is duly noted by me. But, as I discussed a moment ago, the appointment of an independent counsel is a very serious matter and partisan proportionality should not even be the slightest consideration. Would these Senators have sent this letter had the majority not sent our letter to the Attorney General? I think we all know the answer to that question. 
Furthermore, they fail to even suggest that the Republican activities to which they refer independently warrant an independent counsel. Accordingly, I expect the Attorney General, who is a woman of integrity, will give their letter the consideration it deserves. 
In closing, Attorney General Reno has appointed four independent counsels to date. It is the sense of the majority of the members of the Judiciary Committee that the need to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest, and thereby to ensure the public's confidence in our system of justice, requires an independent counsel in connection with the 1996 Presidential campaign. Should the Senate vote on Senate Joint Resolution 22, I will be voting in support of the resolution, and I think rightly so. 
I call upon my friends on the other side of the aisle to consider voting for it as well. Voting that the Attorney General appoint an independent counsel in this case appears to me to be the right thing to do. Keep in mind, I have held off making this request for a lengthy period of time, knowing my constitutional duty and our constitutional duties here, because I wanted the Attorney General to have enough time, and those who are working with her who are people, I believe, of substance and integrity, to investigate and look into this and resolve these matters. But as these matters have accumulated, as the allegations have mounted up, as newspaper upon newspaper has written about them, it is clear that there is at least an appearance of a conflict of interest, and, therefore, it left us with no alternative other than to request this, even though, to repeat, I wish no one any harm. I certainly hope that these allegations are untrue, I hope they can be proven to be untrue, and my prayers will be in that regard. 
Having said all of that, I do hope that the Attorney General will take the necessary step to apply for the appointment of an independent counsel and that one will be appointed. Then perhaps we can resolve these matters once and for all in an independent, reasonable way that I think will be for the benefit of everybody.  
Exhibit 1 U.S. SENATE, 
Committee on the Judiciary, Washington, DC, March 13, 1997. 
Hon. Janet Reno, Attorney General of the United States, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC. 
Dear Madam Attorney General: This letter serves as a formal request, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 592(g)(1), that you apply for the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate possible fundraising violations in connection with the 1996 presidential campaign. The purpose of this letter is not to provide an exhaustive list of the particular allegations that, we believe, warrant further investigation. Indeed, since the Department of Justice has been conducting an extensive investigation into fundraising irregularities for several months now, you presumably have far greater knowledge than do we of the various matters that are being, and will need to be, investigated, and we presume that your judgment as to the necessity of an independent counsel is based on all of the information before you. Rather, the purpose of this letter is to articulate why we believe this investigation should be conducted by an independent counsel. As you know, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary has, to date, refrained from joining the assortment of other individuals who have called upon you to initiate an independent counsel appointment. Recent developments over the past few weeks, however, have persuaded us that such an appointment is now necessary. 
When you appeared before the Senate in 1993 when we were considering reenactment of the Independent Counsel statute, you stated 
`there is an inherent conflict of interest whenever senior Executive Branch officials are to be investigated by the Department of Justice and its appointed head, the Attorney General. The Attorney General serves as the pleasure of the President. Recognition of this conflict does not belittle or demean the impressive professionalism of the Department's career prosecutors, nor does it question the integrity of the Attorney General and his or her political appointees. Instead, it recognizes the importance of public confidence in our system of justice, and the destructive effect in a free democracy of public cynicism.' 
You further testified that-- 
`It is absolutely essential for the public to have confidence in the system and you cannot do that when there is conflict or an appearance of conflict in the person who is, in effect, the chief prosecutor. * * * The Independent Counsel Act was designed to avoid even the appearance of impropriety in the consideration of allegations of misconduct by high-level Executive Branch officials and to prevent * * * the actual or perceived conflicts of interest. The Act thus served as a vehicle to further the public's perception of fairness and thoroughness in such matters, and to avert even the most subtle influences that may appear in an investigation of highly-placed Executive officials.' 
We believe, that, in light of recent developments, a thorough Justice Department investigation into possible fundraising violations in connection with the 1996 presidential campaign will raise an inherent conflict of interest, and that the appointment of an independent counsel is therefore required to ensure public confidence in the integrity of our electoral process and system of justice. 
First, recent revelations have demonstrated how officials at the highest level of the White House were involved in formulating, coordinating and implementing the DNC's fundraising efforts for the 1996 presidential campaign. Recent press reports, the files released by Mr. Ickes, and public statements by very high ranking present and former Clinton Administration officials indicate how extensively the Administration was involved in planning, coordinating, and implementing DNC fundraising strategy and activities. All this has led The New York Times to a conclusion which we find hard to challenge; namely, that `the latest documentation shows clearly that the Democratic National Committee was virtually a subsidiary of the White House. Not only was [President] Clinton overseeing its fund-raising efforts, not only was he immersed in its ad campaigns, but D.N.C. employees were installed at the White House, using White House visitors' lists and communicating constantly with [President] Clinton's policy advisers.' The New York Times, February 27, 1997. As a consequence, we believe that a thorough investigation of all but the most trivial potential campaign fundraising improprieties necessarily includes an inquiry into the possible knowledge and/or complicity of very senior white House officials in these improprieties. We believe that, without questioning in the slightest the integrity, professionalism or independence of the Attorney General or the individuals conducting the present Justice Department fundraising investigation, the fact that the Department's investigation will inescapably take it to the highest levels of the Executive Branch presents an inherent conflict of interest calling for the appointment of an independent counsel under 28 U.S.C. 591(c). 
Moreover, these revelations raise new questions of possible wrongdoing by senior White House officials themselves, including but not limited to whether federal officials may have illegally solicited and/or received contributions on federal property; whether specific solicitations were ever made by federal officials at the numerous White House overnights, coffees, and other similar events, and whether these events themselves, often characterized in White House and DNC memoranda as `fundraising' events, constituted improper `solications' on federal property; whether government property and employees may have been used illegally to further campaign interests; and whether the close coordination by the White House over the raising and spending of `soft'--and purportedly independent--DNC funds violated federal election laws, and/or had the legal effect of rendering those funds subject to campaign finance limitations they otherwise would not be subject to. It seems to us that, even accepting the narrow constructions of some of the governing statutes that have been suggested--which are not necessarily the constructions an independent counsel would render--the answer to whether criminal wrongdoing has occurred will of necessity turn on the resolution of disputed factual, legal, and state of mind determinations. Because the inquiry necessary to make these determinations will inescapably involve high level Executive Branch officials, we believe they should be left to an independent counsel in order to avoid a real or apparent conflict of interest. Moreover, where individuals covered by the independent counsel statute are involved, as they plainly were here, see 28 U.S.C. 591(b), the Ethics in Government Act requires that these inquiries be conducted by an independent counsel. Whether the Act simply permits or requires the appointment of an independent counsel, however, we believe that prudence and the American people's ability to have confidence that the investigation remains free of a conflict of interest, requires it. 
Second, the emerging story regarding the possibility that foreign contributions were funneled into U.S. election coffers to influence U.S. foreign policy further highlights the conflict of interest your ongoing investigation inescapably confronts. A March 9, 1997, Washington Post article quoted `U.S. government officials--presumably familiar with the Department's ongoing investigation--as stating that investigators have obtained `conclusive evidence' that Chinese government funds were funneled into the United States last year,' and quoted one official as stating that `there is no question that money was laundered.' This article reported that U.S. officials described a plan by China `to spend nearly $2 million to buy influence not only in Congress but also within the Clinton Administration.' If the FBI truly is investigating these allegations, as is reported, and this investigation extends to high level Executive Branch officials, it raises an inherent conflict of interest. 
Moreover, a closer look at the activities and associations of some of the particular individuals who are reported to be the principal figures in the ongoing investigation further illustrates why this investigation ultimately must involve high levels of the Executive Branch. Especially troubling is the information revealed to date regarding the Riady family and their associate, Mr. John Huang, but serious questions are also raised by the activities and associations of Mr. Charles Yah Lin Trie, Ms. Pauline Kanalanchak, and Mr. Johnny Chung, among others. Taken together, these reported events raise a host of serious questions warranting further investigation: To what extent were illegal contributions from foreign sources, in particular China, being funneled into the United States, and with whose knowledge and involvement? To what extent was U.S. policy influenced by these contributions, and with whose knowledge and/or involvement? To what extent were the decisions to hire Huang at the Commerce Department, to support most-favored-nation status for China and Chinese accession to the World Trade Organization, or to normalize relations with Vietnam, influenced by contributions, and with whose knowledge and/or involvement? To what extent was the standard NSC screening process for admission to the White House waived or modified so as to permit special access to large donors and their guests where it would ordinarily be denied, and with whose knowledge and/or involvement? To what extent was John Huang placed at the DNC to raise money in exchange for past and future favors, and with whose knowledge and/or investment? 
It is evident that these questions cannot be properly investigated without a conflict of interest, since investigating most of these questions will require inquiring into the knowledge and/or conduct of individuals at the highest levels of the Executive Branch. Moreover, several of the principal figures in this investigation, including the Riadys and the Lippo Group and Charlie Trie, reportedly have longstanding ties to President Clinton. 
Indeed, the conflicts at issue here are precisely the sort of `inherent conflict[s] of interest' to which you testified during Senate hearings in 1993 on the re-enactment of the Independent Counsel Act. Avoiding an actual or perceived conflict of interest was the basis not just for your application for the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate James McDougal, but also for your recent requests to extend that counsel's jurisdiction to include investigations of Anthony Marceca and Bernard Nussbaum. The same concern warrants your application for an independent counsel here, where public confidence can be assured only by the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate any alleged wrongdoing in connection with DNC, Clinton Administration, and Clinton/Gore Campaign fundraising during the 1994-1996 election cycle. As you yourself testified, applying for an independent counsel, and our request that you make such an application, in no way detracts from the integrity and independence of the Attorney General or the career prosecutors presently investigating these allegations. 
Pursuant to the statute, please report back to the Committee within 30 days whether you have begun or will begin a preliminary investigation, identifying all of the allegations you are presently investigating or as to which you have received information, and indicating whether you believe each of these allegations are based on specific information from credible sources, and either pertain to a covered individual or present a conflict of interest. Please also provide your reasons for those determinations. See 28 U.S.C. 592(g)(2). In the event you conduct a preliminary investigation, but do not apply for the appointment of an independent counsel, or apply for an independent counsel but only with respect to some of the various allegations on which you have received information, please identify all those allegations which in your view do not warrant appointment of an independent counsel, and explain your view whether those allegations warrant further investigation, pertain to a covered individual, and/or present a conflict of interest See 28 U.S.C. 592(g)(3). 
Sincerely, 
Orrin G. Hatch, Charles E. Grassley, John Ashcroft, Spencer Abraham, Mike DeWine, Strom Thurmond, Arlen Specter, Jon Kyl, Fred Thompson, Jeff Sessions.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970314</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970314</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, today the Senate will begin consideration of Senate Joint Resolution 22, the independent counsel resolution. The majority leader has announced that no rollcall votes will occur today or during Monday's session of the Senate. 
For the information of all Members, the next rollcall vote will be at approximately 2:45 on Tuesday, March 18. That rollcall vote will be on passage of Senate Joint Resolution 18, the Hollings resolution on a constitutional amendment on campaign expenditures. 
With respect to the order reached last night relative to the independent counsel resolution, no amendments will be in order during today's session to Senate Joint Resolution 22. Amendments may be offered to the independent counsel resolution beginning at 3 p.m. on Monday. Senator Lott has indicated that it is his hope he and the Democratic leader can reach an agreement as to when the Senate will complete action on Senate Joint Resolution 22. 
I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
Mr. BAUCUS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970314</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator tell me how much time he will take, approximately? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the previously ordered vote at 12:30 p.m. today now occur at 12:45 p.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970312</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it befalls me to make a few comments here today concerning why this investigation is so important. Before I do, I want to compliment the Rules Committee and the people on the Rules Committee who have handled this very difficult subject matter and have done it in a credible and responsible way. 
I also personally believe that no two people could handle this matter better than the chairman and ranking member of the Governmental Affairs Committee. Senator Thompson has had extensive experience in these matters and Senator Glenn is known as an eminently fair and worthy person here in this body. I have total confidence in both of them that they will be fair, they will be thorough, they will be tough, and they will do what is right. 
We simply have to get to the bottom of this. The American people are concerned about it. Certainly the media has written extensively about these matters. It is incumbent upon the Senate in its oversight capacity to investigate these matters fairly and thoroughly. 
As we take up Senate Resolution 39 today, I would like to just take a few minutes to emphasize one major point: That there is a serious number of very, very troubling matters to investigate, simply at the very core of Senators Thompson's and Glenn's inquiry. 
Merely in recent press reports--if that is all you had--there are very substantial and troubling questions that must be answered regarding whether foreign money and foreign influence has infiltrated the American political process. While numerous other allegations of improper fundraising at the White House and by the White House have surfaced in the media in the past week or so, that is not what I want to talk about today. 
Even putting aside all of those allegations, the fact is that we have before us very serious allegations that China funneled funds into American elections in an attempt to influence American policy and policymakers. The gravity of these allegations should not and must not be underestimated. Were our national interests sold out? I hope they were not. But this matter must be pursued, and it must be done in a thorough, fair, and honest manner. 
Later this week the Judiciary Committee will forward a letter to the Attorney General requesting that she apply for an independent counsel. To date, she has refused to do so in this matter. I do not read anything sinister into that--I believe that the Attorney General is an honorable, ethical person of integrity. She has applied for the appointment of no less than four independent counsels since she has been Attorney General. I think she has shown that she is a person who can act. But to date she has refused to act on this matter. 
Accordingly, Congress must be all the more vigilant. And given the apparent conflict of interest, the public will be relying on Congress to ascertain the facts and get to the bottom of this whole affair. 
The Governmental Affairs Committee inquiry into fundraising improprieties is, in my opinion, one of the most important congressional investigations in history and involves some of the most serious allegations we have seen to date about our electoral system and our Government. The press and congressional committees have uncovered material facts that prompt numerous questions: 
First, did a foreign government try to influence our national elections and our domestic and/or foreign policy? 
No. 2, were millions of dollars of foreign money laundered through various groups to the Democratic National Committee, particularly by three individuals--Charlie Trie, Johnny Chung, and John Huang, all of whom have some ties to China. 
No. 3, were there violations of any of our existing laws, such as the Hatch Act, the Ethics in Government Act, and our current Federal elections laws? 
The breadth of this particular investigation is immense. We cannot allow ourselves, in an attempt to satisfy the tendentious cause for a broad inquiry into congressional campaigns, to interfere with what is a serious matter. 
Investigating the 1996 Presidential campaign alone will require a very substantial budget and a substantial amount of time--I presume even more time than the Rules Committee has allowed in this instance, which is only until the end of this year or approximately 8 months. I suspect this will go on beyond that and will have to go on beyond that because of what will be brought out. Let us focus for a moment, however, in terms of the breadth of this investigation, on one individual--Mr. John Huang. He was born in China. He worked for the Lippo Group, a huge conglomerate based in Indonesia with large business interests in China. Lippo is owned and controlled by the Riady family--Mochtar, James, and Stephen. These are also Chinese natives. 
By 1994, Huang was the top Lippo executive in the United States. 
Huang was appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Economic Policy in our Department of Commerce in September 1994. 
Let me just go down through what John Huang did while employed at Commerce--just a quick glance. He was, according to reports, given a top security clearance without the usual background check, which is all but unheard of; 78-plus visits to the White House; 70-plus calls to Lippo during this period of time; 39 classified top secret briefings dwelling on China and other countries in Asia; 30-plus phone conversations with Mark Middleton or associates; 9 phone messages from or calls to Webster Hubbell; 9 phone messages from the Chinese Embassy officials; 5 months of top secret clearance before joining the Commerce Department. In other words, even before he got in this very important position in Government, he had 5 months of top secret clearance. Why? That is a question that is going to be a big question in this matter. 
Huang enjoyed a top secret clearance for 5 months of top secret clearance before joining Commerce and nearly a year after leaving Commerce to join the Democratic National Committee. Why? Why would those security clearances go with him outside of Government? Why would he be permitted this kind of access to very sensitive information? These are questions that are very important. Taken with the $780,000 severance pay Huang received from Lippo prior to joining the Commerce Department, these facts naturally raise questions. 
This next chart involves a meeting at the White House to discuss the Huang transfer from the White House to the Democratic National Committee on September 13, 1995. It was an Oval Office meeting. The President was there. James Riady, the Lippo executive was there. Bruce Lindsey, the Deputy White House Counsel, was there. Joseph Giroir, who is, I believe, the former top partner in the Rose Law Firm, the Lippo joint venture partner/adviser, former Rose Law Firm partner, and, if I recall correctly, was the managing partner of that firm, and none other than John Huang, former Lippo executive, Principal Deputy Assistant, Secretary of Commerce. 
At this meeting, it was decided that John Huang would move from the Commerce Department to the Democratic National Committee as vice chairman of finance. 
We do not know what happened at this meeting, although some extremely troubling explanations have been reported by the media. Each one of these people, it seems to me, with the possible exception of the President, will have to be questioned regarding just what went on at that meeting, why Huang left Commerce, and why he was immediately transferred to the Democratic National Committee as the finance vice chairman, why James Riady, was even at this meeting. That is a very important meeting. 
Let me put another chart up here. 
This is John Huang at the Democratic National Committee. These are examples of illegal funds raised by Huang. The Wiriadinatas raised $450,000, all of which was returned by the DNC. Pauline Kanchanalak, $250,000. She has since left the country. She is now in Thailand. All funds returned by the DNC. Wogesh Gandhi, $250,000. He testified he had no assets. All funds returned by the DNC, the Democratic National Committee. 
Cheong Am America--or John H.K. Lee--$250,000. Like Kanchanalak and others, Cheong Am America--or John H.K. Lee--has disappeared. 
All of these funds were returned by the Democratic National Committee. Hsi Lai Buddhist Temple, $166,750: This comes from a temple where the residents take a vow of poverty; $74,000 of the $166,750 was returned by the DNC. All together, that we know of, John Huang raised $3.4 million, $1.6 million of which has been returned by the Democratic National Committee. 
These are just a few of some of the problems that I think the Governmental Affairs Committee is going to have to go into. I do not see how they can avoid doing it. To give a picture of some of the people who seem to be involved in this, let me just highlight some of the other individuals involved in this affair. 
We start with John Huang, former top Lippo executive in the United States, who had a $780,000 severance package when he went to Congress. He had multiple contacts while there with Lippo. 
The former Democratic National Committee vice chairman raised more than $3.4 million, $1.6 million was returned, and he visited the White House during this period more than 75 times. C.J. Giroir, in the Lippo joint ventures, former Rose Law Firm attorney, met with James Riady, President Clinton, and Lindsey on the Huang move to DNC, and donated $25,000 to the DNC. Mark Middleton, former White House aide from Little Rock, met with James Riady and President Clinton on that occasion, Far East business interests, had unlimited access to the White House after his departure. 
Charles Trie, Little Rock restauranteur, received a $60,000 loan from Lippo, and he arranged with the former Lippo executive Antonio Pan to get a Hong Kong dinner for Ron Brown. Trie also attempted to give $600,000 to the Clinton legal trust fund, and he visited the White House at least 37 times. 
Mark Grobmyer, Little Rock attorney, close friend of President Clinton, consultant to Lippo, Far East business interests, met with James Riady, Huang and President Clinton. Soraya Wiriadinata, daughter of Hashin Ning, former Lippo executive, contributed $450,000 to the DNC, and it was all returned, according to the committee. Soraya has gone back to Indonesia. 
S. Wang Jun, Lippo joint ventures, Chinese arms merchant, senior executive at CITIC and COSTIND, Chinese Government entities, and attended a White House conference. Webster Hubbell, former Associate Attorney General, received a $250,000 consulting fee from Lippo--would not say why he got that. 
Charles DeQueljoe is the president of Lippo Securities in Jakarta, gave $70,000 to the Democratic National Committee and was appointed to the USTR office. Pauline Kanchanalak, a Thai lobbyist who worked with Huang when he was at Lippo, contributed $253,000 to the DNC, and it was all returned. She had frequent contacts with Huang. She visited the White House at least 26 times. And then we come back to John Huang himself. 
Now, all of these people are going to have to be interviewed. We are going to have to find out what the facts are here. What was going on? Were there illegalities? 
In that regard, these are key players who have taken the fifth amendment: John Huang, Charlie Trie, Pauline Kanchanalak, Mark Middleton, and Webster Hubbell. I do not see how anybody on the other side of the floor can argue that this set of hearings should not go on, or that this would not take almost every second of any committee's time, and I am only talking about one aspect of it. There are many other aspects to this. 
The key players who have left the country--and we have not been given reasons why they left the country--are John H.K. Lee--gone. If he is going to be interviewed, it is overseas. Charlie Trie, gone, after taking the fifth. Pauline Kanchanalak, gone--as far as I know, back in Thailand, after having taken the fifth amendment. Arief and Soraya Wiriadinata, gone. Charles DeQueljoe, gone. And James and Mochtar Riady, gone. They left the country. 
All this is a brief discussion of one aspect of this. There are other aspects of this, but this is a brief glimpse into some of the serious allegations the Government Oversight Committee will have to look into. I emphasize the point with which I opened, just 
that at the core of this investigation is a vast series of matters which must be looked into. This will be one of the most important congressional investigations in history. I hope it is not obstructed by partisan tactics and politics. I hope with all my heart it is not. I think the American people expect as much. 
When I found out over the weekend that the FBI--and I did not know this before--had notified seven Members of Congress that they might be receiving laundered funds from a foreign country, mainly China, I was kind of shocked at that, because if they informed those seven Members of Congress, surely the FBI informed the White House. I have been led to believe by the FBI they informed the National Security Council. That being the case, why are all these people having such access to our White House under those circumstances? As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, as chairman of the committee that oversees the Justice Department and the FBI, naturally, I have to be concerned about it. 
Now, in addition to all of this, there are newer revelations coming out every day. I challenge the Government Affairs Committee to substantiate these allegations, to look into them. 
Let me just list some of the new revelations about the campaign finance scandals that were first reported after the Governmental Affairs Committee made a request of $6.5 million to investigate the scandal. 
First, Deputy Chief of Staff Harold Ickes made a telephone call from Air Force One to warn of the wiring of the money to the Democratic National Committee and additional funds to nonprofit organizations. There is some indication they used Air Force One for the purpose of raising funds. I hope that is not the case. 
Second, questions have been raised concerning whether the White House database was created for official--as opposed to political--purposes, since it contained individuals' Social Security numbers, nicknames, relations to the First Family, pet political issues, and sometimes a photograph. 
Third, China may have sought to influence U.S. policy through the direction of foreign campaign contributions to the Democratic National Committee and actions taken at the Chinese embassy. It has been disclosed that Huang had contacts with the embassy while he worked at Commerce. 
Fourth, the NSC, National Security Council, at the White House provided the White House with warnings about Johnny Chung, who has ties to the Chinese Government, who was nonetheless subsequently granted access to the White House on numerous occasions, even though they knew about those ties. 
Fifth, Huang approached two business associates and offered to pay them $45,000 if they would take $250,000 from him and donate it in their own names to the Democratic National Committee. That is illegal. 
Sixth, the White House fired four staff members whose salaries were being paid by the Democratic National Committee while they were working at the White House. I don't know whether that has ever been done before, but it should not be done. 
There are other allegations, but let me just mention a couple of other things. The Democratic National Committee returned another $1.5 million in illegal or questionable campaign funds that have to be looked into. The FBI warned, as I have said, seven Members of Congress that the Chinese Government was laundering money into the United States' election process. The FBI warned the National Security Council as well. We checked that today. And I have to tell you, just this one set of allegations could take more than a year or two just to get into them. It's going to take overseas travel; it's going to be very difficult with people taking the fifth amendment, with people possibly hiding documents and withholding them, and with just this one problem burgeoning and getting bigger every day. 
So I commend the Rules Committee and the majority leader for getting this thing off dead center and providing the money so the Governmental Affairs Committee can look into these matters and resolve them one way or the other. 
I wish some of these things were not true. I certainly don't wish anyone any harm. But, unfortunately, if you look at the facts that I have just given to you today, I think it's very unlikely that these matters are going to be disproven. But I hope they can be. 
It is going to be up to this Governmental Affairs Committee to look into it. I think that committee is very capable of doing this. The two leaders are among the best in the Senate. I expect them to do a terrific job. Senator Thompson, in particular, has had extensive experience because of his experience in the Watergate investigation and other investigations since then. He is an excellent lawyer, one of the best who has ever served in the Congress of the United States. I don't know anybody who will be more fair and more decent to the people who are being investigated. I think the same goes for the distinguished Senator from Ohio, Senator Glenn, for whom I have great friendship and fondness, and who I know will do an honest and decent job here. 
I don't think we should get so caught up in this context, in some of the issues that are being raised collaterally. I know the distinguished Senator from Ohio is not raising campaign finance reform to take the edge off of these issues. 
I don't want to get into that today, because I think that is irrelevant to what needs to be looked into by the Governmental Affairs Committee. Now they are going to have a charter to proceed and, I think, a fair amount of money to at least begin these investigations. Hopefully, these investigations can be completed within the time allotted. But, if not, I think the Senate is going to have to look at it and extend the time if this burgeons into what many think it will. 
With that, I thought some of these matters were important to bring out today in the beginning of this debate, so people realize this isn't just some little erstwhile decision by the Rules Committee; this is a very important, well-thought-out resolution of 
what has been a very difficult set of problems, which had a tendency to be greatly politicized over the last few weeks. 
I commend the chairman of the Rules Committee, the majority leader, and the others who have worked so hard on this important matter for the work they have done.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary and the House Subcommittee on the Constitution will hold a joint hearing on Tuesday, March 11, 1997, at 9:30 a.m. in room G50 of the Senate Dirksen Building, on `Partial Birth Abortion: The Truth.'  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
 Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, at the request of the Judicial Conference of the United States, I am introducing a bill to increase the current salaries of Federal judges and to establish a procedure for future cost-of-living increases in judicial compensation. 
This legislation was prepared by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. I believe that, out of comity to the judicial branch, the Senate should have on record the judiciary's specific proposals with respect to judicial compensation, so that we can give those suggestions a full and fair hearing. These proposals deserve fair consideration. 
Federal judges have not received a cost-of-living salary adjustment since January 1994. This bill would amend United States Code title 28, sections 5, 44(d), 135, and 252, to provide an immediate, one-time 9.6 percent adjustment in the compensation of Justices of the Supreme Court and Federal circuit court, district court, and international trade court judges appointed under article III of the Constitution. The bill would also have the effect of increasing, by the same percentage, the salaries of Federal court of claims and bankruptcy judges and full-time U.S. magistrate judges, since their salaries are, by statute, fixed based on the salaries of Federal district court judges. 
With respect to future judicial salary adjustments, the bill would amend section 461 of title 28 to end the current linkage between the judicial, congressional, and Executive Schedule compensation. Instead, judicial salaries would be adjusted automatically on an annual basis, in the same percentage amount as the rate of pay of Federal employees under the General Schedule. 
Finally, the bill would repeal section 140 of Public Law No. 97-92, thereby removing the current requirement that Congress affirmatively vote for cost-of-living increases for Federal judges. 
If we are to attract and retain the most capable lawyers to serve as Federal judges, it is vitally important that we ensure that those responsible for the effective functioning of the judicial branch receive fair compensation, including reasonable adjustments which allow judicial salaries to keep pace with increases in the cost of living. As Chief Justice Rehnquist stated in his `1996 Year-End Report on the Federal Judiciary,' `We must insure that judges, who make a lifetime commitment to public service, are able to plan their financial futures based on reasonable expectations.' This bill, which I am introducing at the request of the Judicial Conference, proposes changes viewed by the Judicial Conference as advancing this objective--an objective with which I believe most Senators would agree. The bill merits serious consideration by the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am proud to introduce a bill to make the current tax credit for increasing research activities permanent with my friend and colleague Max Baucus. We are also joined by Senators D'Amato, Abraham, Boxer, Bingaman, Moseley-Braun, Dorgan, Murray, DeWine, Conrad, Rockefeller. Companion legislation will be introduced today by Representatives Nancy Johnson and Robert Matsui in the House. The Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996 temporarily extended this tax credit until May 31, 1997, when it is set to expire. 
As the United States is shifting from an industrial based economy to an information and technology based economy, conducting research for tomorrow's products and methods is increasing in importance. In 1981, the Reagan administration and the Congress recognized this need, and the credit for increasing research and experimentation [R&E] activities was first enacted. Unfortunately, the credit has been victim to repeated short term extensions that included a break in the availability of the credit. 
Mr. President, this nation is the world's undisputed leader in technological innovation. American know-how has given our Nation benefits undreamed of a few years ago. Research and development by U.S. companies has led the way in delivering these benefits, which enhance U.S. competitiveness as well as the quality of life for everyone. And, as the pace of change in our world quickens, the role of research has taken on increased importance. Today, the credit is needed more than ever to keep up with our changing world. 
The R&E credit has played a key role in placing the United States ahead of its competition in developing and marketing new products. Studies of the credit indicate that the marginal effect of $1 of the R&E credit stimulates approximately $1 of additional private research and development spending over the short-run, and as much as $2 of extra investment in research over the long-run. 
Mr. President, the benefits of the R&E credit, though certainly very significant, have been limited by the fact that the credit has been temporary. In many fields, particularly pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, there are relatively long periods of development. The more uncertain the long-term future of the R&E credit is, the smaller the potential of the credit to stimulate increased research. This only makes sense, Mr. President. U.S. companies are managed by prudent business men and women. They evaluate their research and development investments by comparing the present value of the expected cash flow from the research over the life of the investment with the initial cash outlay. These estimates take into account the potential availability of tax credits. However, because of the uncertainty of a tax credit that has been allowed to continually expire, many decision makers do not count 
on the R&E credit as being available in the long-run. This, of course, means that fewer research projects will meet the threshold of viability and results in fewer dollars being spent on research in this country. 
In the business community, the development of new products, technologies, drugs, and ideas can result in either success or failure. Investments carry a risk. If a project has a high risk of failure, the R&E tax credit will help ease the cost of taking the chance to find the cure for killer diseases such as cancer, to build the next microchip, or the next generation of heart monitoring equipment that can save lives. If the project becomes a success, resulting in a new drug that can cure a disease or a new breakthrough technology, then what happens? Additional investment is made, workers are hired, new jobs are created and many Americans benefit from the initial research and experimentation. In this way, all Americans can benefit from the R&E tax credit. 
Mr. President, a small investment in R&E today produces dividends and rewards tomorrow. This tax credit is a credit for investment, for economic growth, and for creating new jobs. What if we don't act? As the Peat Marwick study confirms, the benefits of the R&E tax credit reach into the future. Failure to extend the credit beyond May 31, 1997, will weaken our Nation's ability to stay competitive in the future. 
It is important to note that while U.S. investment in research and development has generally grown since 1970, our international competitors have not stood still. Other nations, such as Japan and Germany are constantly knocking at the door trying to build the better car, the faster computer, or a more effective drug. Uncertainty, about the future of the credit will make firms hesitant to make long-term commitments and investments in the critical long-term research projects that really are the source of the breakthrough drugs and the new technologies. In fact, United States non-defense R&D, as a percentage of gross domestic product [GDP], has been relatively flat since 1985, while Japan's and Germany's have grown. 
Unlike a few years ago, it is now not always necessary for U.S. firms to perform their research activities within the boundaries of the United States. As more nations have joined the United States as high tech manufacturing centers, with educated work forces, multinational companies have found that moving manufacturing functions overseas is sometimes necessary to stay competitive. The same is often true with basic research activities. In fact, some of our major trading partners now provide generous tax incentives for research and development conducted in those nations. These incentives are more attractive than the R&E credit the United States provides, particularly when the temporary nature of our credit is considered. Therefore, Mr. President, we are at risk of having some of the R&D spending in the United States transferred overseas if we do not keep competitive. 
President Clinton, when campaigning for the Presidency in 1992, recognized the importance of stimulating private R&D investment and called for a permanent R&E credit. The 1993 tax bill had a 3-year extension. Last year, we extended 
the credit for only 1 year because of revenue constraints in the small business bill. The President's fiscal year 1998 budget contains another 1-year extension. These proposals for extensions are well and good, Mr. President, but they do nothing to give stability to risky, long-term research and experimentation investments. The certainty of the availability of the tax credit is now almost as important as the credit itself. It might well make the difference between a decision to undertake an expensive multiyear research project and a decision to forego such research. 
I hope this year we can put our support behind investment in research and make this credit permanent. 
Mr. President, my home State of Utah is home to a large number of innovative companies who invest a high percentage of their revenue in research and development activities. For example, between Salt Lake City and Provo lies the world's biggest stretch of software and computer engineering firms. This area, which was named `Software Valley' by Business Week, is second only to California's Silicon Valley as a thriving high technology commercial area. 
In addition, Utah is home to about 700 biotechnology and biomedical firms that employ nearly 9,000 workers. These companies were conceived in research and development and will not survive, much less grow, without continuously conducting R&D activities. 
In all, Mr. President, there are approximately 80,000 employees working in Utah's 1,400 plus and growing technology based companies. Research and development is the lifeblood of these firms, and hundreds of thousands more throughout the Nation that are like them. A permanent and effective tax incentive to increase research is essential to the long-term health of these businesses. 
I am aware, Mr. President, that not every company that incurs R&D expenditures in the United States can take advantage of the R&E credit. As the credit matures and business cycles change, the current credit can be out of reach for some companies. Thus, as part of the latest extension of the credit Congress enacted an elective alternative credit to broaden the reach of this incentive. However, Congress should continue to examine ways to improve it and to make the credit more effective in delivering incentives to increase R&D activity. 
In the meantime, however, it is important that this Congress send a strong signal that the current credit should not be allowed to expire. I urge my colleagues to show their support for the concept of a permanent R&E credit by cosponsoring this legislation and support the kind of research activities that will maintain American leadership in the technological developments that will lead us into the next century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am proud to introduce the Home Office Deduction Act of 1997. I am joined today by my friends and colleagues, Senators Baucus, Allard, Bond, Lieberman, and Burns. This bill will clarify the definition of what is a `principal place of business' for purposes of section 280A of the Internal Revenue Code, which allows a deduction for an office in the home. 
This bill is designed to reverse the 1993 Supreme Court decision in Commissioner versus Soliman. When this decision was handed down, it effectively closed the door to legitimate home office deductions for hundreds of thousands of taxpayers. Moreover, the decision unfairly penalizes many small businesses simply because they operate from a home rather than from a store front, office building, or industrial park. 
Mr. President, until the Soliman decision, small business owners and professionals who dedicate a space in their homes to use for business activities were generally allowed to deduct the expenses of the home office if they met the following conditions: First, the space in the home was used solely and exclusively on a regular basis as an office; and second, the deduction claimed was not greater than the income earned by the business. Through the Soliman case, the Supreme Court has narrowed significantly the availability of this deduction by requiring that the home office be the principal business location of the taxpayer. This requirement that the home office be the principal business location has proven to be impossible to meet for many taxpayers with legitimate home office expenses. 
For example, under the Soliman decision, a self-employed plumber who generates business income by performing services in the homes of his customers would be denied a deduction for a home office. This is because, under the rules, his home office is not considered his principal place of business because the business income is generated in the homes of the customers and not in his home office. This is the case even though the home office is where he receives telephone messages, keeps his business records, plans his advertising, stores his tools and supplies, and fills out Federal tax forms. In fact, having a full-time employee in the office who keeps the books and sets up appointments would still not result in a home office deduction for the plumber. 
This is preposterous, Mr. President, and we need to correct it. My bill would rectify this result by allowing the home office to qualify as the principal place of 
business if the essential administrative or management activities of the business are performed there. 
The truly ironic effect of the Supreme Court's decision is that a taxpayer who rents office space outside of the home is allowed a full deduction, but one who tries to economize by working at home is penalized. This makes no sense to me. 
The Home Office Deduction Act of 1997 is designed to restore the deduction for home office expenses to pre-Soliman law. Rather than requiring taxpayers to meet the new criteria set out by the Court, the bill allows a home office to meet the definition of a `principal place of business' if it is the location where the essential administrative or management activities are conducted on a regular and systematic basis by the taxpayer. To avoid possible abuses, the bill requires that the taxpayer have no other location for the performance of these essential administrative or management activities. 
Mr. President, today's job market is rapidly changing. New technologies have been developed and continually improved that allow instant communication around the once expansive globe. There is even talk of virtual offices, which are equipped only with a telephone and a hookup for a portable computer. These mobile communications have revolutionized the definition of the traditional office. No longer is there a need to establish a business downtown. Employees are telecommuting by facsmile, modem, and telephone. Today, both a husband and a wife could work without leaving their home and the attention of their children. In this new age, redefining the deduction for home office expenses is vital. Our tax policy should not discriminate against home businesses simply because a taxpayer makes the choice, often based on economic or family considerations, to operate out of the home. 
In most cases, start-up businesses are very short on cash. Yet, for many, ultimate success depends on the ability to hold out for just a few more months. In these situations, even a relatively small tax deduction for the expenses of the home office can make a critical difference. It is important to note that some of America's fastest growing and most dynamic companies originated in the spare bedroom or the garage of the founder. Our tax policies should support those who dare to take risks. Many of tomorrow's jobs will come from entrepreneurs who are struggling to survive in a home-based business. 
Mr. President, the home office deduction is targeted at these small business men and women, entrepreneurs, and independent contractors who have no other place besides the home to perform the essential administrative or management activities of the business. The Soliman decision drastically reduced the effectiveness and fairness of this deduction and must be reversed. 
This legislation can also have an important effect on rural areas, such as in my home State of Utah. Many small business owners and professionals in the rural areas of Utah must spend a great deal of time on the road, meeting clients, 
customers, or patients. It is likely that many of my rural constituents will be unable to meet the requirements for the home office deduction under the Soliman decision. Mr. President, we must help these taxpayers, not hurt them, in their efforts to contribute to the economy and support their families. 
The Home Office Deduction Act of 1997 not only has strong bipartisan support in the Congress, but also has the support of the following organizations: The Alliance of Independent Store Owners and Professionals, the American Animal Hospital Association, the American Small Business Association, the American Society of Media Photographers, the American Society of Travel Agents, Americans for Financial Security, the Bureau of Wholesale Sales Representatives, Communicating for Agriculture, the Home Office & Business Opportunities Association of California, the Illinois Women's Economic Development Summit, the Manufacturers Agents National Association, the National Association for the Cottage Industry, the National Association of the Self-Employed, the National Association of Women Business Owners, the National Electrical Manufacturers Representatives Association, the National Federation of Independent Businesses, National Small Business United, the National Society of Public Accountants, the Promotional Products Association International, the Small Business Legislative Council. 
I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join us as cosponsors of this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970305</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I support the joint resolution before us waiving certain provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 relating to the nomination of Ambassador Barshefsky to the position of United States Trade Representative. 
Let us make no mistake as to the quality of Ambassador Barshefsky's service. We are not simply endorsing her as an exception to the act. Rather, she could not be more deserving of confirmation. Let's examine her record. 
Her service has been marked by substantive accomplishments on an unprecedented scale. Over 200 trade agreements have been enacted, and she has been in the middle of the dispute process for the most difficult of all--the Chinese anti-piracy agreement--and more than 20 separate agreements with the Japanese in such areas as auto parts, telecommunications, government procurement, semiconductors, and medical equipment and technology. Many of her accomplishments have directly benefited my State of Utah which, despite its small size, is one of the Nation's leading exporters of technology and software. 
Like many other members of the Senate Finance Committee, I have been inundated by letters from hundreds of Barshefsky supporters. This outpouring of support underscores my own impression, as I expressed at the recent Finance Committee hearing, that she is a most qualified nominee for U.S. Trade Representative. 
But let me draw attention to one particular comment regarding her success in the Chinese trade negotiations. I refer to a statement from the Recording Industry Association of America, a sector that has been especially hard hit by Chinese intellectual property piracy. In his recent letter to me, RIAA chairman and CEO, Jay Berman, reported, `I personally witnessed her negotiations with China in June, 1995, that led to the immediate closing of 15 pirate CD [compact disc] plants.' 
She has been repeatedly credited with breakthroughs in other sectors as well. 
As my good friend from Delaware said only moments earlier, she has vastly expanded market access for American business--in Asia, Latin America, and Europe. More importantly, her work will be seen as an advent to still another American century, a century that will be marked by rising prosperity everywhere.  
Mr. ROTH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am very honored to be able to turn to a man who has led the fight for the balanced budget amendment ever since he arrived at the Senate, the most senior Senator in the whole U.S. Senate, a person all look up to, who has been my mentor on this issue and so many others, and one of my dearest friends in this world, the distinguished Senator from South Carolina, Senator Strom Thurmond, for 5 minutes or whatever time he needs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time does the Senator need? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Wyoming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am delighted to have the relationship with our cosponsor on this amendment on the Democrat side, Senator Bryan from Nevada. He has fought a valiant battle here, and I appreciate the opportunity of working with him on this. We are still hoping that this vote will turn out all right at the end of the day. 
So I am more than delighted to yield 15 minutes to my distinguished friend and colleague. I thank him for his leadership on this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my distinguished friend and colleague, and certainly for his kind remarks regarding me. I take those as a special feeling of friendship and love for the work he has done and the kindness he has shown to me. I want to personally express my appreciation for how hard he has worked on this amendment, how much it has meant to me and others on this side--very much--and, I think, to his colleagues who are voting with him on his side. I just want to personally express my gratitude to him for the good work he has done. 
I reserve the remainder of my time. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have no objection. This is fine. I am happy to accommodate the minority on this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have enjoyed listening to the distinguished Senator from Maryland. He has made these points before. 
Let me tell you something. It is easy to bring the deficit down when you pass the largest tax increase in history, and when you have just ended paying for the savings and loan crisis. In all honesty, that is what happened. But, we still have, for the next 4 years, the deficit going back up. Only in Washington, DC, when 
you talk about reducing the increase in the amount of money the deficit goes up, do you call it cutting the budget. 
The fact is that, under the best of circumstances, we have at least a $107 billion annual deficit. It is going up to $200 billion by the year 2002, by the budget the President submitted. So it is nice to talk in terms of how the deficit seems to be coming down for the last 4 years, after the largest tax increase in history, and the fact that the deficit was artificially high in 1992 because we got through paying for the debacle of the S&L crisis. I am not sure who to blame there. There is more than enough blame to go around for who created the debt, the question for today is who will vote to fix it? 
President Reagan's desire to have marginal tax rate reductions to spur economic growth proved to be the right policy. The marginal tax rate reductions in 1981, actually, according to many observers, resulted in an increase in revenues of over 40 percent during the additional years. At the lowest, it was 28 percent. Really, I think it was closer to 40 percent. But the real problem was that our friends of the more liberal persuasion kept spending, and President Reagan himself spent more on defense. So there is no question that all of that was what caused the high deficits, not the tax rate reductions. 
Having said all of that, we also know that automatic stabilizers are not what they claim to be. There are many reasons why we come out of recessions and why we haven't had deeper ones than we have had. Automatic stabilizers is probably a very minor part of that, according to most economists today. 
Today is the day of decision for Senate Joint Resolution 1, which proposes to amend the Constitution and provide for a means of getting us to a balanced budget. The sad reality is that if we do not adopt the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, then the bridge to the 21st century is likely to be washed out with a flood of debt. 
The amendment we will vote on this afternoon is the bipartisan, bicameral consensus. Everybody knows it is the only one that has a chance of passing and the only chance we have of getting things under control. It is recommended to the American people by us for their deliberation and their State legislatures by Americans of good will who will have reached across party lines to do what is right for our country's future. 
Some have suggested that it is somehow inappropriate to suggest that we amend the Constitution to correct the Federal Government's borrowing and spending habits. I would like to emphasize. What is the Constitution for? It seems to me that it's primary purpose is to limit the Federal Government's power to act in ways destructive of the liberties of the people. And the most central power of Government, especially of the Congress, is the power of the purse. That should not seem like a new idea. Ever since the nobles of England forced King John to sign the Magna Carta at Runnymede, our constitutional history has been a series of actions to rein in the abuse of power of the purse to protect the freedoms of the people. That is what we want to do here because it is apparent. If you look at these last 28 years of budgets, all unbalanced, none of which has done the job, that have put us where we are, it wasn't just Reagan, Bush, Clinton, or Carter. It is 28 years of this. And, if you really want to stop things, yes, we have to have better Presidential leadership on the budget. But ultimately, the fiscal buck stops right here in Congress, and the Congress is the body that can't get its spending habits under control. 
For the first century and a half of our Nation's history our Nation--it literally went without saying--the Government would only borrow in times of supreme emergency, and then would repay the debt in good times. That began to be abandoned in the 1930's and was entirely abandoned in the 1960's and 1970's. In 58 of the last 66 years, and for the last straight 28 years, the Federal Government has spent more money than it has taken in. Yet, we have these people coming to the floor saying, `All we have to do is do it, and the President will sign it.' Give me a break.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I do not have the time to yield, or I would be happy to. Let me just finish my remarks. 
This pile of books illustrate the nearly three decades of unbroken deficits. Think of it. Nearly 30 years in an unbroken line, and 58 of the last 66 years during good times and bad times the Federal Government has simply spent money that it didn't have. And, frankly, it is our fault in Congress for allowing this condition to continue. 
Some question. `Who has this hurt? We owe the money to ourselves. It has no effect.' Right? Wrong. It has hurt average Americans by reducing their wealth and by reducing the Nation's economic sovereignty as we have relied on foreign creditors, and foreign creditors are starting to control our country. Because the Government is competing for money to borrow, it has driven up the interest rates making home mortgages, student loans, and automobile loans even more expensive. 
The Joint Economic Committee has estimated that the average family will save about $1,500 if we implemented a balanced budget amendment. Our debt has made it more difficult for small businesses to grow and to expand, and so has decreased the number of new jobs that we might have created. 
In these and many other ways, real wealth has been taken away from the American people and from the American families throughout this country. Who else does it hurt? Certainly our children and our grandchildren. A child born today enters life with about $20,000 of debt as his or her share of our $5.3 trillion national debt. It has been estimated that this same child will pay $200,000 in extra taxes just to pay the interest on the national debt over the lifetime of that child. In fact, that child will pay over 
$94,000 in extra taxes just to pay the interest on the national debt, up until that child's first 18 years are completed. These children did not get to vote on this debt and tax burden. They didn't vote on the spending programs that they will be paying for. Mr. President, I have called this `fiscal child abuse,' and that is exactly what it is. It is also taxation without representation in its purest form. 
The clear fact is that the Federal Government's debt habit is hurting current and future Americans. But in a way that avoids direct electoral accountability. By taking the easy course to borrowing, the Government can hand out Federal money without having to raise Federal money directly through taxes. 
Over the period of debt financing the Government has grown and has intruded itself into every area of life but has become even less and less accountable for the people. Some say, `Let's just do it,' meaning that we can balance the budget right now, if we will. We have tried all of that. Republicans, Democrats, and the White House have promised balanced budgets, and the debt just continued to go up. Democrats and Republicans promised balanced budgets, and the debt went up. We had recessions and wars, and the debt went up. We had peace and prosperity, and the debt went up. Since 1978, we passed no fewer than five major budgetary regimes to force us to balance the budget, and the debt went up. 
Just think about it. In the last Congress, we even passed a balanced budget. But the President vetoed it. And the debt went up again. We have tried promises. We have tried statutes. They don't work. 
Look at this stack of failed attempts of 28 straight years; 58 of the last 66 year of unbalanced budgets. `Let's just do it' just doesn't do it. That line may be great for selling sneakers, but it has not helped us to balance the budget. I will tell you that. 
We have a fundamental problem with the way our Government operates. We need a constitutional solution because that is what the Constitution is for--to fix basic problems of Government, and to limit the ability of Government to act in ways that are harmful to the people. It seems to me quite clear that to remedy this fundamental problem in our National Government that it is entirely appropriate to amend our basic charter to say to the Government, `Stop spending our national inheritance.' By limiting the Federal Government's ability to borrow and spend and spend away our American legacy, we will be protecting the liberties of all Americans. 
Mr. President, there is still time for Senators to reconsider their position. I hope that those who have shown that changing their minds is not out of character will think twice again and decide to vote the right way--in the way they promised their constituents, in the way they ran upon it, and in the way they were elected upon it. The balanced budget is the right thing to do for our children, our grandchildren, and for all Americans. 
I reserve the remainder of my time. 
Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield on my time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Is that why you want a capital budget? I guess it is so you can continue what you have been doing. Sure. So you can continue to just spend, and just call it a capital budget. My gosh. It suddenly dawned on me. I was starting to think maybe a capital budget was a good thing. But there is no bond rating system to restrain the Federal Government, as is the case in the States. We make the money. We print it ourselves. We do whatever we want to. I guess we could just continue business as it is, and just call it a capital budget. Put all of these things that we should have to pay for into a capital budget, and say, `We balanced the budget.' Just continue the same system. That is what we are talking about.  
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The only gimmicks I have seen are the gimmicks of these amendments that are really filed for one purpose and that is to cover what really is a very difficult vote, voting against the balanced budget amendment. 
I yield 4 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague for his excellent statement, Mr. President. I yield 6 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Virginia. And I want to personally thank him and express my gratitude for the good leadership and hard work he has shown in trying to pass this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time does the distinguished Senator from New Mexico need? We are running out of time on this side, but I think the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee deserves to take whatever he wants to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right, I yield 8 minutes to the distinguished Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The President himself, in his budget, says by the fourth and fifth year, 75 percent of the savings or cuts, whatever, have to be obtained in the 2 years after he leaves office. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I was going to ask you, you said 98. He was off by that much? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. He himself admitted to 75 percent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Am I correct in my understanding? I was led to believe there was only a $49 billion deficit in the fifth year of the President's budget; in other words, it wasn't balanced by $49 billion. If I heard the distinguished Senator correctly, that is now up to $70 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I don't know when I have heard a better speech on the balanced budget amendment than the Senator from New Mexico has just given, or a better set of arguments for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 30 seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 6 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 5 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Idaho. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It is my understanding that the distinguished Senator from Texas would like to speak. I think he is on his way. As soon as he arrives, I would be happy to yield whatever time I have to him. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time to the distinguished Senator from Texas, who has played a significant role in this and who is one of the brightest people to ever sit in Congress with regard to budgetary matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, contrary to Senators Reid, Dorgan and Conrad's contention, exempting Social Security would severely impair the program. Let me say once again, an exemption would open up a loophole in the amendment and siphon-off revenues from the trust funds. Placing the trust funds off-budget will harm the Social Security Program. 
In essence, we would have two budgets, one based on sound principles of solvency, and the other, the Social Security budget, which is not. One budget will be required to be in balance unless a supermajority votes to allow a deficit, the other--the Social Security budget--would be raided and bloated with unrelated pork projects. This will mean the end of Social Security as we know it, turning it into the least secure of all Government accounts. 
Congress could pass legislation to fund any number of programs off-budget, through the Social Security trust funds. The budget could be balanced simply by shifting programs into the Social Security trust funds. 
The immediate effect of the loophole is that the trust funds would grow--as projected--but only until 2002, the date the BBA requires that the budget be balanced. Thereafter, however, the trust funds would stop growing as all annual surplus funds would be reallocated to pay for programs that have been redesignated as Social Security. So instead of growing, from 2002 to 2019, the year the trust funds are estimated to stop growing, the system will become stagnant in 2002. The result of the loophole will be the depletion of the trust fund years early. Exemption of the trust funds from the BBA, ironically, will hasten the system's difficulties. 
Congress has generally been increasing the web of services provided by Social Security. Consider what will happen when politicians are faced with the choice between the pressures of budget integrity and the procrastinating appeal of a Social Security loophole. 
The only other possible use for Social Security surpluses would be for the Government to pay down our staggering national debt. If projects aren't redesignated, Social Security as discussed earlier, thereby consuming accumulated Social Security surpluses, surplus proceeds would be used in the only possible manner that would avoid section 1's prohibition on outlays exceeding receipts: to make debt repayments. This sounds wonderful, but in fact creates a dangerous mechanism for the Congress to continue deficit spending. By paying down the debt, the Congress would provide itself a debt cushion--that is, a gap between the statutorily limited debt ceiling and the actual paid down debt. Congress could therefore use this gap to deficit spend, from Social Security, while avoiding the three-fifths vote required in section 2 of the BBA to raise the debt ceiling. This is because the accumulated Social Security surpluses would maintain the gap between the actual debt and the debt ceiling. Such a spending device completely frustrates the 
purposes for which I have introduced the balanced budget amendment. 
Also, let us not forget about the troubling future for Social Security. The Social Security Board of Trustees estimates that by the year 2070, Social Security is expected to run an annual $7 trillion deficit. If we include Social Security in our balanced budget calculations, we will be able to prepare for and budget these massive shortfalls. Under the Feinstein proposal, we will not be including this deficit in our budgetary planning. As a result, under any proposal to exempt Social Security from Senate Joint Resolution 1, in order to raise revenue and increase the debt ceiling sufficient to cover the expected Social Security shortfalls in the next century, we will have to dramatically increase taxes or cut spending in other important programs, or face an annual three-fifths vote fiscal crisis to avoid financial default by raising the already staggering $5.5 trillion debt ceiling. 
FICA taxes have grown significantly over time. There is no reason why this increase would not be accelerated under this loophole. Nor is there any reason why new Social Security taxes could not be added, such as a Social Security income tax or a Social Security value added tax. As this process continues, the loophole created by this exemption could easily swallow both the spending and the taxing protections of the BBA. 
By allowing Congress to redesignate other spending as Social Security, this loophole would make it easy to balance the budget on paper without changing anything except accounting methods. 
According to Wall Street analyst David Malpass, who recently testified before the Judiciary Committee,  
Financial markets would react negatively to a budget concept that ignores Social Security. 
By passing a balanced budget amendment that excludes Social Security, Congress would game the system, saying, in effect, that it does not intend to balance the consolidated unitary Federal budget. For Malpass and other market analysts, this would be a decidedly negative signal for financial markets, leading to higher interest rates. 
This probable gamesmanship is exactly what must be avoided. The way to avoid it is to reject this risky exemption gimmick. The best way to protect retirees and future generations is to adopt a clean strong balanced budget amendment, free of loopholes. It is the best way to save our financial situation and protect Social Security. 
I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Minnesota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague and yield 1 minute to the Senator from Colorado. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague and yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Wyoming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the balanced budget amendment is necessary to limit the Federal Government's power to mortgage America's future. It can protect the liberties of the American people for six primary reasons: 
No. 1, our families: Passing the balanced budget amendment will improve the economic health and stability of all American families. 
No. 2, our children's future: Passing the balanced budget amendment is a very clear-cut vote for our children's economic freedom, instead of their enslavement, which is what we have been doing to them. 
No. 3, retirement security: It will protect Social Security, and it will stabilize the economy, which will benefit both current and future retirees. 
No. 4, economic strength: The stabilizing effect the balanced budget amendment will have on the economy is clear. 
No. 5, integrity: It will bring immediate credibility to our current budget negotiations, and it will restore a measure of integrity to our Government. 
No. 6, the last reason is this stack of 28 unbalanced budgets. The last 28 years of our country's life have had unbalanced budgets. We need a constitutional amendment to stop this pile from growing. 
Some have stated that all we need is the will to balance the budget. Well, these 28 budgets are a testament to the fact that our will just won't do it. It is that simple and that clear. 
I have to tell you, one of my favorite quotes is this: `A democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government. It can only exist until the voters discover that they can vote themselves largess from the Public Treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidates promising the most benefits to the Public Treasury, with the result that a democracy always collapses over loose fiscal policy, always followed by a dictatorship.' 
The average age of the world's greatest civilizations has been 200 years. Ours is just a little bit over 200 years, and we are following that pattern of mortgaging our future, of voting largess for ourselves and the Public Treasury, and of not being able to put fiscal sanity into our house to make it a house of order. All we have is, it seems to me, the same old timeworn, wornout approaches toward the budget that we have heard for all of these 28 years. It is time to do something about it. 
I yield a minute to the distinguished Senator from Idaho. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the Senator from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the Senator from Arkansas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their words here today. We are talking about trying to save our country. Frankly, after 58 of the last 66 years of unbalanced budgets, I think it is time we do something about it. 
I yield 1 minute to our distinguished friend, the Senator from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield a minute to the Senator from Vermont. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Florida. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Nebraska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the Senator from Colorado. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 or 2 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Maine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. 
I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague from Texas. 
I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for his excellent statement. 
I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Kansas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield a couple of minutes to the distinguished Senator from Idaho, who has led the fight for this amendment in the House, along with Congressman Stenholm and, of course, played a pivotal role in leading the fight for it each time we brought it up in the Senate as long as he has been here, Senator Craig. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Montana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I thank the Senator from Florida for his valiant fight on his side of the aisle to help make this a reality. We really appreciate him and honor him today. 
I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Mississippi. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I call on the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee, my friend and colleague from Alaska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I yield to the distinguished Senator from Missouri. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 1 minute to the distinguished Senator from Indiana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, in the last hour we have had 37 Senators for the balanced budget amendment who have spoken here on the floor. I think that sends about as powerful a message as we can. But I would like to end with our remaining time going to the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee who deals with these matters all the time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the majority leader for his leadership on this particular issue. He has been a leader on this issue ever since I have been working on it, I have to say, both in the House and in the Senate. I am proud of him. 
Look, we have heard from the minority and the minority leader that the perfect balanced budget amendment would exempt all capital expenses, however defined; Social Security, however defined; military responses or buildup, however understood, 
crime control; times of economic downturn; national disaster or emergency; education; nutrition programs, and so forth and so on. Gee, what is left under this proposal, under the minority leader's proposal? It is pretty apparent they don't want a balanced budget amendment. They do not want a fiscal mechanism that will make it more difficult for them to increase taxes, to pay for more expensive programs or to increase the debt to pay for more expensive programs. What's left? Just interest expenses? Well, that's a perfect balanced budget amendment if you want to keep spending. 
It was admitted today that if we had a `capital budget exemption,' we would have a `balanced budget' today. I guess that's so. That's perfect. If you want to keep spending and borrowing, that's perfect. In other words, if you want to keep the status quo, that is the way to do it: Just hide everything in a loophole, and then you can say you `balanced' the budget. No, we don't need this kind of perfection. What we need is a real-world solution, one that will make a difference. 
I have to say, I am doggone tired of the demagoguery on Social Security. You would think these people here on the other side against this amendment are the only ones who care about Social Security. Let me tell you something, I care about it. I watched what it did for my folks. I know exactly what it does, and I don't want to ever see it hurt, and neither does anybody else who is voting for this amendment, and that is the vast majority of people in this body. 
You are doggone right we like Social Security, and we are tired of the demagoguery. Every time they are losing, they try to bring up a Social Security amendment to hide behind, because they don't want to cast the right vote, and they know it, we know it, and, ladies and gentleman out there in the country, you know it, too. I am tired of it. It is not right for them to continually hide behind these phony issues. Can you imagine having Social Security cast aside outside of the balanced budget amendment and its protections, standing there all alone so that anything could be called Social Security? Once that game starts, forget Social Security. 
These people who are arguing that are the foes of Social Security. If they really cared for Social Security, by gosh, they would be passing this balanced budget amendment and getting spending under control. It is about time to get rid of the demagoguery, and I am tired of it. 
Let me also say, I was quite upset today to hear in the closing remarks the minority leader come out here again and start using a distortion of the Congressional Research Service. I was asked outside, `Have you lost confidence in the Congressional Research Service?' by one of the leaders in the media. Of course we have not, because they made it clear that the interpretation was not as the minority leader has been saying. As a matter of fact, we made that clear on the floor. There should not even have been a question about it. 
The CRS memorandum dated February 5 that my colleague was alluding to did not conclude in any way whatever that the balanced budget amendment would harm Social Security. All the CRS memorandum concluded was that assuming the Social Security surplus survived to the year 2019, the year Social Security would start running annual deficits, this previous accumulated surplus could be used to help pay for future deficits, but only if it is offset by revenues or budget cuts. Of course, we could also vote to suspend the balanced budget rule for a year if that was truly necessary. That is a considerably different position from what has been demagoged throughout this debate. 
Despite what my friend asserted, under the balanced budget amendment, assets of the Federal Treasury could be drawn upon to ensure payments to beneficiaries when the system starts running annual deficits. Senators Domenici, Mack, and I also received a 
letter from the CRS supporting my provision. The nonpartisan Concord Coalition, founded by the late Paul Tsongas, a Democrat, and Warren Rudman, a Republican, has also addressed this issue. In a memorandum dated February 18, 1997, the coalition concluded that the Senators' position that if the balanced budget amendment does not exempt Social Security it will somehow nullify the trust fund surpluses and prevent payment of benefits to retired baby boomers is nonsense. 
Let me quote further. This is what the Concord Coalition says: 
What the BBA would do is to raise national savings and thus make Social Security, along with a myriad other claims on tomorrow's economy, more affordable. It would be ironic, indeed, if concern about funding Social Security, whether real or pretended, turns out to be an issue that sinks the balanced budget amendment. Let's be clear, the balanced budget amendment would in no way honor the status of the Social Security trust funds. 
The real issue here is, how are we going to fund the Social Security trust funds when the system becomes insolvent around the year 2019, 2029 for sure? The answer depends on the national debt. It is the size of the national debt that threatens the Social Security program, and, I might add, we are adding to that national debt one more unbalanced budget, and that is the one for fiscal year 1998. That is it. This is the President's budget on top of these 28 other unbalanced budgets that we have been pointing out throughout this debate. 
Only if we pass the balanced budget amendment will we preserve Social Security, and that is the truth in this debate, and I am tired of the demagoguery. 
Just think about this national debt. Forty-six days ago, when the Judiciary Committee began the debate on the balanced budget amendment in the 105th Congress, I used a debt clock ticking off thousands of dollars each second to illustrate the magnitude of our country's growing debt. As we have debated Senate Joint Resolution 1 for the past 46 days, that clock has continued to run, and our national debt has increased in that period of time, that 46 days, $25 billion, while these folks are talking about `we just have to have the will to do it.' Tell me where the will is in the last 29 years, including next year's budget. That is the President's budget. It is unbalanced, by the way. 
Madam President, I don't know about other States, but in Utah, 25 billion bucks is a lot of money. In fact, with that money, we could send every man, woman, and child in Utah to the University of Utah, pay their tuition, room, board, and books. 
To give you the magnitude of that debt, let me give you an idea of how much money we are talking about. With $5.3 trillion, which is our national debt today, you could paper Washington, DC, with 100 dollar bills corner to corner with enough left over to give a block grant to every State of about $6.3 billion. You could also purchase every new automobile ever sold in the United States and still have enough left over to purchase every airline ticket ever sold for travel in the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. He said we won 14 or so votes, it is time for him to win one. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. 
I heard this language, by one of the Members of the Senate, that we are just interested in a quick and easy fix, like instant rice, like Jiffy Lube, like instant coffee. A quick and easy fix, my foot. We do not believe that the only way to solve problems is by increasing taxes every time, which is exactly what happened here when this President took over. That is not the way to do it. 
This stack of books is a wall standing between us and fiscal responsibility and balanced budgets. The bricks in this towering wall are the unbalanced budget submissions for the last 28 years, 28 years of strapping debt on to the backs of our children, a towering wall of overspending the hard-earned money of the American people, a towering wall that demonstrates that the score for special interests is 28, the American people zero. 
Some people say, all we need is the will. Well, this towering wall represents 28 straight years of the failure of will and the failure of responsibility--now, 29. It is higher than I am, and that is two stacks, not one. Before we are through, if we do not do something about a balanced budget amendment, these will go all the way to this ceiling. The President's actions, evidenced by his budget submission and his allies' work in defeating the balanced budget amendment here in the Senate, suggests that we are just putting another brick on this wall. 
Frankly, I believe we will never get past this wall without a constitutional requirement to balance the budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. His budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is correct. In the last 2 years we are going to cut 98.5 percent in order to get to a balanced budget by the year 2002. Anybody believes that, boy, do I have something to sell for you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If we did just what we are doing now, the Senator is right, we would be a lot better off than the President's next 5-year budget. He is saying that is a balanced budget. I do not believe we will get all the way to a balanced budget and stay there without a constitutional requirement. I think this stack of books proves it. Every time somebody says, `Let's just do it'--I have heard that for 21 straight years now, ever since I came to the Senate. I will tell you something; we are not just doing it. 
To all those who say we can balance the budget without the constitutional requirement, I say to Democrats and the President that this towering wall of irresponsibility is limiting our young people's future. I am convinced we cannot do it without putting a fiscal mechanism in to cause us to stand up and vote to do what is right. It is a wall of irresponsibility that is limiting our young people's future. We must do something about it now. 
Mr. President, you fought against the balanced budget amendment. I have to say, this big wall here is going to cause us pain through the rest of our lives unless we pass a balanced budget amendment. I am saying to the President right now, and to our colleagues on the other side, let us tear down this wall of unbalanced budgets and let us do what is right. If we will, everybody will benefit from it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am disappointed with the Senate vote. I am disappointed for the American people, especially younger Americans, and our children and grandchildren. They were the ones who lost in this defeat. I hope our younger voters will take notice of who was on their side and who was not, the next time they vote. 
The sad reality is that the bridge to the 21st century is likely to be washed out in a flood of debt. I hope I am wrong and that we will now work to enact a real plan to get to a balanced budget. I hope that those who have killed the balanced budget amendment this time will actually work to balance the budget. But I must admit, I am not too hopeful that we will get to balance and stay there without the force of a constitutional requirement to do so. This year we will add another budget to this mounting stack of fiscal irresponsibility. 
When we began this Congress, less than 2 months ago there, were 68 Senators who had either previously voted for this amendment--the exact same amendment, or who had promised during their recent campaign to support it. I believed that we could count on them to keep their promises. Yet, only moments ago, only 66 votes were cast in favor of fiscal discipline. Those two missing votes are the difference between passing the balanced budget amendment and adding still more failed budgets to this pile of 28 straight years of deficits. 
As disappointed as I am, however, I am also very proud of my colleagues who stood up and were willing to vote to protect our children and grandchildren from worsening the crushing burden of debt that has already been loaded on their backs. Senate Joint Resolution 1 began this Congress with 62 cosponsors, Mr. President. That is an all-time high. We have now had two consecutive Congresses in which the Senate missed approving the balanced budget amendment by a single vote. There can be no doubt that support for this much-needed measure is growing. 
I am particularly proud of, and grateful to, the 11 courageous Democrats who did the right thing and voted for fiscal responsibility and accountability in spite of President Clinton's opposition. Among them, Senators Bryan, Graham, Robb, Moseley-Braun, Kohl, Breaux, and Baucus deserve special recognition as they are all original cosponsors of the balanced budget amendment. Let me also recognize Senator Biden, the former ranking member of the Judiciary Committee who also voted for the amendment, and Senators Harkin, Landrieu, and Cleland. 
As you can see, Mr. President, the balanced budget amendment is a bipartisan effort. The 11 courageous Democrats joined with all 55 Republicans in the Senate to support what we understand is necessary if the budget is to truly be brought into balance. Unfortunately for the American people, the 34 Democrats who voted against the balanced budget amendment were just enough to defeat it. 
Two years ago I stood here after a very similar vote and promised that we would not give up the fight for our children's future. This year we returned stronger than ever. And so I make the same promise again, we will be back! We will be back and we will continue to gain strength until we enact the balanced budget amendment and finally, after decades of excuses, broken promises, and more deficits, we will balance the budget. 
Mr. President, an effort such as the one we have been involved in over the past month requires the time, talent, and commitment of a large number of people. While I cannot name them all, I would like, at this time, to extend my gratitude to the Senators and staff who were so instrumental. 
Let me first thank our majority leader for his pivotal role. Senators Craig, Thurmond, and Domenici of course, have my admiration and thanks. I am also especially grateful to Senators Nickles, Coverdell, Mack, Grassley, Gramm, Snowe, Abraham, and Thomas. Last, but certainly not least, I would like to thank our new Republican colleagues: Senators Enzi, Hagel, Hutchinson, Allard, Collins, Sessions, Brownback, and Roberts. The energetic support of the newest Members of the Senate bodes well for the future prospects of the balanced budget amendment. 
Let me also thank Senator Leahy, the new ranking member on the Judiciary Committee and the minority floor manager during this debate, for his cooperation and courtesy. 
Finally, I would like to single out some of the staff members who worked so long and hard on this matter: Damon Tobias with Senator Craig; Bill Hoagland, Austin Smythe, and Jim Capretta of Senator Domenici's Budget Committee staff; Tom Geier with Senator Snowe; Bryan Reardon with Senator Abraham; Mitch Bainwol with Senator Mack; Doug Badger and Hazen Marshall of Senator Nickles's majority whip office; Kyle McSlarrow and Carl Parks with Senator Coverdell; Andy Vermilye with Senator Bryan; Russ Sullivan, Mike McGinn and Barbara Ramey with Senator Graham; and Rob Brazil with Senator Robb; and last but certainly not least, David Hoppe, Alison Carroll and Keith Hennessy in the majority leader's office. Let me also thank Bruce Cohen and Ed Pagano of Senator Leahy's Judiciary Committee staff. 
Last, Mr. President, I would like to thank the very special people who have worked with me on this issue: Manus Cooney, Sharon Prost, Shawn Bentley, Larry Block, Paul Larkin, Steve Tepp, Paul Joklik, Troy Dow, Eric Sampson, Jennifer Carrico, Allison Vinson, and Irosha Ratnasekera. Many staffers have worked long and hard in the most dedicated fashion, I thank them all for their devotion to duty and to our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet on Tuesday, March 4, 1997, at 10 a.m. in open session, to receive testimony on the defense authorization request for fiscal year 1998 and the future years defense program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized to meet on March 4, 1997, at 10 a.m. on product liability reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Finance Committee requests unanimous consent to conduct a hearing on Tuesday, March 4, 1997, beginning at 10:30 a.m. in room SD-215. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 4, 1997, at 4:45 pm to hold a business meeting. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Select Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 5, 1997 at 2:30 p.m. to hold a closed hearing on intelligence matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Securities of the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 4, 1997, to conduct an oversight hearing on the SEC and FASB derivatives accounting rules and their impact on competitiveness and investor information. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Control, and Risk Assessment be granted permission to conduct a hearing Tuesday, March 4, at 9:30 a.m., Hearing Room SD-406 on liability and resource issues associated with the cleanup and redevelopment of abandoned or underutilized industrial and commercial properties, and how legislation currently pending before the committee might affect these redevelopment efforts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Software Export Equity Act. I am pleased to be joined in this bipartisan effort by my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee, Senators Max Baucus, Don Nickles, John Breaux, as well as Patty Murray, Slade Gorton, Dianne Feinstein, and Barbara Boxer. Identical legislation has been introduced in the House by Representative Jennifer Dunn and a strong bipartisan group of her House colleagues. 
This bill highlights an issue that I have mentioned many times in the Finance Committee. Currently, the section of the Internal Revenue Code outlining what qualifies for foreign sales corporation [FSC] treatment and tax benefits is unclear and has left out software that is exported overseas. Our bill would clarify the treatment of software. 
What is a foreign sales corporation? It is a corporate entity established by Congress to help facilitate the export of American made goods to foreign markets. The FSC rules allow a corporation a tax benefit on a portion of its earnings generated by the sale or lease of export property. It is consistent with sound U.S. policy to promote U.S. exports. 
When the foreign sales corporation statute was enacted in 1971, the computer software industry was relatively new. The original FSC statute was drafted with the intent that only U.S. job-creating property manufactured or produced in the United States and sold or leased outside the United States qualifies for export benefits. The FSC rules are designed to assist U.S. exporters in competing with products made in other countries that have more favorable rules for taxing exports. 
Mr. President, it is in our best interests to encourage the export of American goods and services. The United States is currently the world leader in software development, employing approximately 2 million people in software development jobs. As this industry continues to grow, much of the expansion of the industry is due to the growth of exports. However, as the software industry has grown in response to global markets, the tax laws have not kept up. 
Currently, the statute allows films, tapes, records or similar reproductions to qualify for FSC benefits. However, because of a narrow interpretation of the FSC rules, software does not generally receive this export incentive. 
Let me provide an example that I have shared before with my colleagues on the Finance Committee. Suppose you have two CD-ROM's--one containing a musical recording, the other containing dictionary software with musical recordings included. The two look the same and are very similar except for the software. If the you export a master CD-ROM of the musical recording to another country for reproduction, the export qualifies for FSC benefits. However, if you export a master copy of the software CD-ROM with a license to make additional copies, you will be denied FSC benefits. This is simply wrong and unfair. In an age where many computer products are multipurpose--with music and software--this makes no sense. 
Now this problem is not beyond repair. The Treasury Department does not believe that it has the authority to issue regulations to correct this problem. However, they support the legislative fix I am introducing today. The FSC statute must be clarified to allow exported software with the right to reproduce to receive fair and equitable treatment. 
Mr. President, this problem hits home in my State of Utah. There are a number of software manufacturers in Utah that have developed a worldwide presence. Watching musical and other intangible items receive FSC treatment while highly sophisticated software is left out, is simply discouraging for these sometimes small software companies. This legislation corrects this inequity and reestablishes our commitment to promoting American competitiveness. 
I am please to introduce the Software Export Equity Act today. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bipartisan effort and cosponsor this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I think this side has said everything it needs to say. I will be happy to yield any time of our remaining time, unless somebody else wants to speak, to our friend from Florida. 
We have to oppose this amendment. We know how helpful the Senator from Florida is and how much this means to him. We have appreciated the support he has provided in this debate and certainly will listen to what he says here. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I compliment the distinguished Senator from Florida. He has been one of the great leaders on the balanced budget amendment, prior to this debate and certainly during this debate. I believe he deserves a lot of commendation from both sides of the floor for his steadfastness and standing up on this amendment. 
We cannot support this particular amendment to the balanced budget constitutional amendment, and I regret that we cannot. But, in spite of that fact, our colleague from Florida has been one of the leaders out here, and I personally just want to express my appreciation for his efforts and for the work he has done on his side of the floor, as well as our side of the floor. I appreciate it. 
Mr. President, I understand that the vote cannot occur until 12:35? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that I be permitted to move to table, with the vote not occurring before 12:35. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to table the amendment, with the understanding that the vote will not occur until 12:35. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand my colleague. I understand the amendment being offered by Senator Feingold would reduce the period for the States to ratify the balanced budget amendment from 7 to 3 years. 
I have to say, that I do not see the wisdom in departing from the longstanding 7-year standard that this resolution reflects. The 18th amendment, ratified in 1921, was the first constitutional amendment to contain a time limitation of any kind. Although there was heated debate at the time over Congress' authority to impose such a limitation on the States' ratification of the constitutional amendment, the Supreme Court subsequently upheld Congress' power to set a reasonable time limit on ratification in the case of Dillon versus Gloss back in 1921. As a result, we find 7-year time limitations within the actual text of the 18th, 20th, 21st and 22d amendments. 
Since approval of the 23d amendment in 1961, Congress has continued to include a 7-year time limitation. But such limitation has been removed from the text of the amendment and incorporated instead in the joint resolution proposed in the amendment as we have done in Senate Joint Resolution 1. 
Now, just to verify the continued adherence to the convention of a 7-year time limitation, I did a quick review of the 107 Constitutional amendments introduced in the last Congress. Indeed, of those 107 resolutions, only 1 contained a time limitation that varied from the conventional 7-year limitation. 
I am quite confident, were we to adopt a shorter time limit, as my colleague proposes, the amendment would still be ratified by an overwhelming number of the States. But I fail to see the need in this case to alter what has been recognized as a reasonable time limitation on ratification since the early part of this century or to prejudice the consideration of the balanced budget amendment by reducing the time for consideration. 
Mr. President, I am not concerned about 3 years or 7 years. I am concerned about 28 years, these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. You know, the bottom line is, we can talk all we want to about technicalities like 3 or 7 years but it is the 28 years I am concerned about. Really, if you get serious about it, it is 58 of the last 66 years during which we have had unbalanced budgets. It does not take a rocket scientist to realize this outfit just does not have the will to do what is right. 
So to get all caught up in whether it is 3 or 7 years, I do not think serves the best interests of this amendment. Let me just say the bottom line is this. Congress cannot and will not stop spending more than it earns without the force of a constitutional requirement to balance the budget. 
I have 28 unbalanced budgets here just to prove the point. We stacked them a little lower by doubling and tripling the smaller volumes, but it still is a pretty high stack. It is headed right to the ceiling if we do not get a balanced budget amendment. We have run deficits in 58 of the last 66 years. And, Mr. President, that is plain fiscal irresponsibility. 
For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to reject distractions such as this amendment. I do not mean to demean the amendment of the distinguished Senator or my colleague who serves well on the Judiciary Committee, and with whom I have a very good, friendly and decent relationship, but it is a distraction in the sense that really the 7-year period really ought to be maintained since it has been over all these years. 
So I urge my colleagues to reject this amendment and to find the courage to change the face of this Nation by voting for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. This is a chance to do it. This is a chance to do something that will work. If we put the balanced budget requisite into the Constitution, I have no 
doubt that it will be a very relative few who would not observe it. But I believe the vast majority of Members of the Congress of the United States henceforth and forever would do everything in their power to live up to that constitutional requisite were we to put it in the Constitution. 
I have no doubt about it. I think the vast majority of people who serve here are very honorable people who keep their word and will do what is right. I really believe that if we put this in the Constitution, that vast majority will really make sure that this balanced budget amendment works. On the other hand, if we do not, my gosh, what hope do we have? I mean, I can just see where nobody could be seen above this stack 6 or 4 years from now. 
Frankly, I am absolutely solid in asserting, unless we have a balanced constitutional amendment, these stacks are just going to continue to grow ad infinitum, something that must be horrifying our Founding Fathers, many of whom are undoubtedly in Heaven, although there are a few I am sure who had a rough time getting there. But the vast majority of them probably are there with our Father in Heaven saying, `Let's do that which we failed to do when we had the chance, even though we thought about it.' But they, when they were here, never thought for a minute we would have 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets. 
So I suspect that the only way to solve this problem is to put some fiscal mechanism within the Constitution that makes sense. This amendment is that mechanism. It is a bipartisan amendment. 
I chatted with Charles Stenholm last night, our Democratic counterpart over in the House. I have to say he has done a tremendous job over the years doing his best to try to enact this amendment. It takes guts because he takes a lot of flak for it because people in his party in particular want to keep spending and taxing and claiming that they are doing a lot for people--they never say with their own money that could be better utilized by them and I think in a better way. So I want to praise him for the work he has done over there in the House, along with other Democrats and Republicans who have worked so hard through the years on this amendment. 
I want to praise everybody here who will vote for this amendment because it does--it does--hold hope for the future if we can pass this amendment and enshrine it in the Constitution where I think the vast majority of Members would honor it and do what is right. The spending games would be over. 
So I would hope that our colleagues will keep the language exactly the same. I do not know how it would affect other people who are currently willing to vote for the amendment, but we would like not to change it. In spite of the fact that my colleague is sincere and that this is a sincere amendment, I would hope that our colleagues will vote to table it. 
Mr. President, I am prepared to yield back the balance of my time. We could move to the Senator's next amendment, unless he wants to discuss it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say for the sake of this debate, if the Senator were willing to vote for the balanced budget amendment, I would accept his amendment because I think three-quarters of the States would ratify this amendment within the 3-year time period. I know he will not vote for this balanced budget amendment, and, frankly, it is better from a constitutional standpoint to give the States enough time to function. Some States do not even meet this year in their legislatures; others meet, but may not have time to consider this. It does take time to ratify a constitutional amendment, depending upon a lot of timing factors. 
So we prefer to have the 7-year period. But I will make that offer if the Senator will vote for the balanced budget amendment. I would encourage all my colleagues to vote for his amendment, but until he does, I think we have to reject this amendment unless he is willing to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I know my colleague is sincere. I have nothing but respect for him as he serves on the committee. I have a lot of regard for the distinguished Senator, and he knows it, and I know it. 
However long it takes, we need a balanced budget amendment, and I think this is drafted correctly. It has Democrat prints all over it and Republican prints all over it. It is the bipartisan amendment that has always been in play, and I think should always be in play. 
Frankly, I am hopeful we can pass it by next Tuesday. But however long it takes, we need it. If we do not do it, we will continue the status quo, and that is a stack of unbalanced budgets, which my friend and colleague admits will continue if we do not do something about it. 
Mr. President, I yield back the balance of time, and I understand these votes will be stacked. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent to move to table, with the understanding it will be able to come up at a later time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time is left for the Senator from Utah? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much is left for the other side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Eighty seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That ought to be enough to make some fairly powerful statements, but I will be happy to give him some more time after I make a few remarks. 
Let me make a point that my good friend and colleague, Senator Kyl, made at the outset of this debate. Senator Kennedy's amendment would allow the Federal Government to imprison any taxpayer who declines to pay an unconstitutional tax. His amendment is materially different from Senator Nunn's amendment 2 years ago. So I am very concerned about it. Let me just compare the two. 
The Nunn amendment provided that absent specific legislation authorizing judicial review, the courts would not have jurisdiction for claims arising under the balanced budget amendment. 
The Kennedy amendment provides that absent specific legislation authorizing judicial review, Congress has exclusive enforcement authority under the balanced budget amendment. Thus the courts would have absolutely no enforcement role. 
The difference is this. I know my colleague is trying to do what is right here, but the difference is this. The Kennedy amendment allows Congress unconstitutionally to raise taxes by a simple voice vote and no court in this land could hold that tax unconstitutional. The Nunn amendment did not have that draconian affect. 
Under the Nunn amendment, any taxpayer could raise as a defense the argument that the Congress passed an unconstitutional tax. The Kennedy amendment forecloses that defense. I do not think we want to go that far, even though I think I know what the distinguished Senator is trying to do. The Kennedy amendment, Senator Kennedy's amendment, would allow the Government to imprison taxpayers for refusing to pay an unconstitutional tax. 
I do not think we want to go that far. At least I do not. 
So I have to rise in opposition to the amendment offered by my good friend and colleague from Massachusetts. 
Mr. President, in each year that the balanced budget amendment has been debated, I notice that various arguments are presented as scare tactics by the opponents of the amendment. The devil resurrected now in the Kennedy amendment is the fear that under the balanced budget amendment the courts will raise taxes or cut programs. Indeed, President Clinton even claimed that he could refuse to disburse Social Security checks to our retired senior citizens if the budget is not balanced by the end of any particular fiscal year. 
The balanced budget amendment does not produce any such evils. On the contrary, the balanced budget amendment strikes a delicate balance between the reviewability by the courts and limitation on the courts' ability to interfere with congressional budgetary authority. It has always been my position that we should not foreclose all judicial review. No. Some judicial review may be necessary and should be permitted. 
What we should foreclose is any action by the courts that would interfere with Congress' budgetary authority. Judicial review should be available for the egregious, but unlikely, cases where Congress flouts the express procedures dictated by Senate Joint Resolution 1, such as the requirement that each House of Congress vote for a tax increase only by rollcall vote, when in fact we provide for a constitutional majority or a majority of the whole number of both Houses in order to have a tax increase. Such review does not mean that the courts will be able to interfere with the budgetary process but does ensure that the Constitution is enforced and respected. Let me explain this balance in greater detail. 
There are several reasons why courts will not run the budget process if Senate Joint Resolution 1 becomes law. In part, that is because several well-settled constitutional principles ensure courts do not make the budget decisions that we must make. In part, that is because section 6 of Senate Joint Resolution 1 gives Congress the power to decide how the balanced budget amendment should be enforced. Let us start with the Constitution. 
No. 1. Standing. The standing doctrine limits who may bring a lawsuit in Federal court. At bottom, to do so a party must show that it has suffered an `injury in fact.' That term is a technical one in the law. It does not allow clients to simply claim he dislikes a law or merely that the law is unconstitutional. No. A plaintiff must prove three elements in order to establish standing or to show, as I have mentioned before, that that plaintiff has suffered `injury in fact.' 
First, a plaintiff must prove that he has suffered, or likely will suffer, a concrete injury, not just a conjured up one or abstract one, but a concrete injury. 
Second, the plaintiff must show that the defendant has caused the specific injury that he has shown. In this case it would be the Government. 
And third, the plaintiff must show that the remedy he seeks will redress the specific injury that he has shown. 
It would be very difficult for a plaintiff to establish or any plaintiff to establish all three elements in a lawsuit brought challenging an action under Senate Joint Resolution 1 unless there was an actual violation of Senate Joint Resolution 1 such as I have mentioned--a refusal to follow the supermajority vote rule or a refusal to follow the actual vote rule. Dissatisfaction with Congress' policy judgment is not `injury in fact.' A plaintiff, therefore, cannot establish the ability to sue if all that a plaintiff can show is that Congress has not adequately funded or has been unduly generous in funding a particular program. 
A plaintiff cannot establish standing based merely on the claim that an act of Congress is unconstitutional. 
A plaintiff also cannot establish standing based simply on his or her status as a taxpayer. 
The Supreme Court long ago held that a plaintiff cannot establish standing based merely on his status as a taxpayer. The Court so ruled in the 1923 case of Frothingham versus Mellon. In 1982, the Supreme Court reaffirmed its Frothingham decision in the case of Valley Forge Christian College versus Americans United for Separation of Church & State. 
That is not all. Even if a party can prove he has suffered a judicially recognizable `injury in fact,' in all but the most extraordinary cases that party still would not be able to establish standing to sue. The reason why is that a plaintiff still could not make out the remaining requirements to establish standing. In particular, a party would not be able to establish either the `causation' or `redressability' elements. In a case brought under the balanced budget amendment, a plaintiff would not be able to show that a specific law caused his injury or that a specific law should be held invalid as the unconstitutionally necessary and appropriate remedy. After all, Congress appropriates money for numerous programs, so it would be impossible for a plaintiff to show, for example, that he is injured by any one specific program. 
Now, that is No. 1. 
No. 2 is justiciability and the political question doctrine. 
There are two other doctrines that are relevant here: Justiciability and the political question doctrine. 
Justiciability focuses not on the person who wishes to bring a lawsuit, but on the issue or claim that the plaintiff wishes to litigate. Not every claim is one that Federal courts are going to adjudicate, and claims that cannot be adjudicated are deemed `nonjusticiable.' 
In many ways, the political question doctrine is just the flipside of the justiciability doctrine. The reason is that a political question is an issue that the Constitution has given to someone other than the courts to decide. 
The political question doctrine is relevant here because of the origination clause in article I, section 7, clause 1, of the Constitution that provides that `All Bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills.' Because that clause gives to the House of Representatives specifically the exclusive power to decide whether to raise taxes, the courts cannot do so, even in a case that the courts otherwise may adjudicate. 
Because this is an important issue, let me just address it in some detail. 
I will refer to the judicial taxation issue of Missouri versus Jenkins. Can Federal courts order a tax increase? Some opponents of the balanced budget amendment have argued that the courts will use their remedial power to order that Congress raise taxes. In making that argument, some balanced budget amendment opponents rely on the Supreme Court's decision in Missouri versus Jenkins, a decision decided in 1990. There the Supreme Court held that a Federal district court has the remedial authority to order a local school district to raise taxes in order to ensure that a court-ordered school desegregation plan is carried into effect. The Jenkins case, however, supplies no authority for a Federal court to order Congress to raise taxes. 
The short and simple answer is that the text of the Constitution treats the Federal Government and the States differently in that regard. The Supreme Court did not discuss the effect of the origination clause of the Constitution in the Jenkins case, and that clause is critical to any discussion of this issue. The origination clause of the Constitution provides that `All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives, but the Senate may propose or concur with amendments, as on other bills.' That provision is not a mere matter of etiquette. No, the Supreme Court has said that it is a substantive, judicially enforceable constitutional requirement. And we, in the Senate, are very diligent in making sure that we do not tread on the House's authority to do that. All of us understand that, and we are very, very concerned about observing it. 
In United States versus Munoz-Flores, in 1990, the Supreme Court ruled that the courts can enforce the requirements of the origination clause. In that case, the Supreme Court rejected the argument that issues arising under the origination clause pose what are known as `political questions,' questions that are for the political branches, not the courts, to resolve. 
The upshot of the Munoz-Flores decision is twofold. First, all bills for raising revenue must originate in the House of Representatives, or else they are unconstitutional. Second, and more importantly, the House of Representatives has plenary authority for the `origination of revenue bills.' No entity created by the Constitution other than the House of Representatives can originate a revenue bill or order that a revenue bill originate in the House. That includes the Federal courts. Since the Supreme Court is created by the Constitution and since the lower Federal courts are authorized by the Constitution, neither the Supreme Court nor any lower Federal court has the power to order the House to raise taxes or, in any other way, to order Federal taxes raised. 
The same point can be made in another way. Under the political question doctrine, the Federal courts lack authority to adjudicate certain types of issues. The classic formulation of a `political question' case is set forth in Baker versus Carr in 1962. That formulation makes clear that a political question is an issue in part whose resolution is textually committed to a branch other than the courts. The issue whether taxes should be raised easily satisfies that standard, because the origination clause expressly vests that authority in the House of Representatives. 
At the end of the day, the question whether taxes should be raised is quintessentially a political question, because the Constitution expressly vests in the House of Representatives the authority over that issue. Since the resolution and political question is beyond the demand of the courts, no Federal court could order Federal taxes to be raised as a remedy in any case. Accordingly, the Supreme Court's decision in the Jenkins case is irrelevant in this contest. 
The principle that Federal courts cannot order taxes to be raised is consistent with the Framers of our Constitution. Let me quote from `The Federalist Papers' to make my point. James Madison wrote in Federalist No. 48: `The legislative department alone has access to the pockets of the people.' Similarly, Alexander Hamilton wrote the following about the courts in Federalist No. 78: `The Judiciary has no influence over the sword or the purse, no direction either of the strength or of the wealth of the society, and can take no active resolution whatever.' 
Those are important Founding Fathers' definable terms with regard to this particular issue. It is very important that we make this case, because there is a lot of misunderstanding on this constitutional issue. 
Now, No. 3, an additional safeguard against judicial activism lies in article III of the Constitution and section 6 of Senate Joint Resolution 1. Both provisions give Congress power to limit the jurisdiction of the courts and the remedies courts may provide. The Supreme Court has made clear on numerous occasions under article III that Congress can limit the jurisdiction and remedial powers of the Federal court. Under section 6 of the balanced budget amendment, Congress may adopt statutory remedies and mechanisms for any purported budgetary shortfall such as sequestration, rescission, or the establishment of a contingency fund. 
Pursuant to section 6, it is clear that Congress, if it finds it necessary, could limit the type of remedies a court may grant or limit a court's jurisdiction to prevent judicial overreaching. If the balanced budget amendment becomes law, and I hope it does, Congress will have the authority of both article III and section 6 of the balanced budget amendment in order to protect against unwarranted judicial action. Those two provisions help to ensure that Congress will retain the ultimate power to decide how Senate Joint Resolution 1 will be enforced and thereby prevents courts, whether Federal or State, from expanding their power beyond the limited role Congress assigns. These are issues that are important and have to be covered in the context of this debate. 
Some opponents have argued it would force the President to impound funds; that is, to withhold from spending already appropriated funds such as Social Security payments in order to balance the books. President Clinton has made that argument on several occasions recently. He made it in his State of the Union Address and he made in his Saturday radio broadcast. Shame on him, having taught constitutional law. I shall now explain that argument is a canard. 
Constitutional analysis, like all legal analysis, begins with the text of the relevant law. Here we need to look to the text of Senate Joint Resolution 1. That part of the analysis is conclusive. Nothing in the text of Senate Joint Resolution 1 authorizes, or otherwise allows, for the impoundment of any appropriated funds. On the contrary, it imposes a duty on the President, the duty to transmit to Congress a proposed budget for each fiscal year in which total outlays do not exceed total receipts. The text of Senate Joint Resolution 1 is clear: It does not authorize the President to impound appropriated funds of any type. 
We should now move on to the intent of the drafters of Senate Joint Resolution 1. Here, too, the answer is compelling. Neither I nor anyone else who supports Senate Joint Resolution 1 in this Chamber construes the balanced budget amendment as granting the President any authority to impound funds. That should end the debate. 
Now, under section 6 of Senate Joint Resolution 1, Congress must mandate exactly what enforcement mechanism it wants, whether it be sequestration, rescission, the establishment of a contingency, or rainy day fund, or some other mechanism. The President must enforce whatever mechanism the Congress enacts so Congress has the power to prevent the President from impounding funds. 
Indeed, even if Congress took no preventive action in that regard, the President could not impound funds if Senate Joint Resolution 1 became law. The reason why is that the Line Item Veto Act prevents the President from doing so. Let me explain why in three steps. 
First, unlike Gaul, all Presidential powers can be divided into two parts. Expressed powers such as the pardon power, or implied powers, which consist of every constitutional power that the President can invoke, that is not expressly granted to him. That is the complete universe of Presidential powers according to the Constitution. So any power to impound funds must fit into one of these two categories. 
Second, the Constitution grants the President the power to issue a pardon, but it does not grant him the power to impound funds. As a result, if the President has any impoundment power, that power can only come from the President's general executive power in article II, section 1, or in his duty in article II, section 3, to `take care that the laws be faithfully executed.' 
Third, how the President's impoundment power is classified is important, because Congress has greater authority to regulate the President's implied powers than his expressed powers. 
Congress has only very limited authority to regulate the President's exercise of an express power such as the pardon power of article I, section 2, clause 1. But Congress has greater room to regulate the President's general executive power. In fact, Congress may do so as long as Congress does not prevent the President from discharging his assigned responsibilities. 
Indeed, Congress already has regulated in the area of the President's implied powers by giving the President a line-item veto power. We gave the President such authority last Congress. As a result, even if Congress does nothing more to enforce the balanced budget amendment, Congress already has limited the President's ability to impound funds. Why is that so? Well, it is because Congress told the President that the only budget authority that he can exercise is the line-item veto power. The Congress gave the President that power, rather than the impoundment power, only last year, and that judgment by the Congress is naturally entitled to respect. By so granting the line-item veto power, Congress impliedly denied to the President the power claimed by President Clinton to impound funds. The one power implies that the other does not exist. 
Now, these are important issues, and I have to say they are issues that literally, I think, must be stated against the amendment of my friend from Massachusetts in this particular case. 
Mr. President, let me just end where I began. There are only two ways to assert constitutional claims. One, you can sue the Government; two, you can raise constitutional claims as a defense. Simply put, the Kennedy amendment would not allow the latter. You could not raise a constitutional defense. Imagine, the Leviathan IRS can prosecute an innocent taxpayer and the taxpayer can't tell the court that the IRS is acting unconstitutionally. Can you imagine that? We just could not put that in the Constitution. It would be awful. The Kennedy amendment does exactly that. This, alone, is a good reason to table Senator Kennedy's amendment. 
Taxpayers have rights, too and, frankly, the current amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment, protects those rights, whereby, the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts does not. 
Now, my friend from Massachusetts may not worry so much about some of the excessive powers of the IRS. I suspect he doesn't have too many worries there, compared to people who are scraping for a living every day of their lives. Be that as it may, that doesn't mean we should justifiably put this into the Constitution by amending the balanced budget amendment with this amendment. 
Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Would the Senator like me to yield him some time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will yield the distinguished Senator 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, is this vote set for a time certain? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield the balance of my time. 
I move to table the amendment, reluctantly, and I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as my friend has said, I move to table this amendment. It unnecessarily reduces the time for ratification from 7 years to 3 years, even though that 7 years has been the proper form of ratification for many amendments since 1921. 
However long it takes, we need the balanced budget amendment and there is no reason to reduce the time for the consideration by the States. So I hope our colleagues will table this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote by which the motion to table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank both my colleagues. Mr. President, I believe we should reject this amendment. Senate Joint Resolution 1 will not only help us to stop borrowing, but will help us to protect any savings we may build up. So, I do not believe it is necessary to make it easier to spend our hard-earned savings. 
Senate Joint Resolution 1 gives us appropriate flexibility with the appropriate protections. 
Mr. President, have we moved to table this amendment yet? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield back the balance of my time. Are the yeas and nays ordered? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I do not intend to take much time on this amendment. My colleague deserves certainly some response. 
This motion would alter the constitutional amendment and make it into a statute. I do not know if we need to say anything more because we are debating a constitutional amendment. 
The distinguished Senator from Arkansas is very ingenious. He is a great friend of mine; I appreciate him, but this motion very simply says, `We do not need a constitutional amendment to balance the budget.' 
Now, I insist that we do when you look at these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. I hate it when people come in here and say, `Let's just do it.' I have heard that throughout this debate. `Let's just do it'--the very same people who basically have never done it the whole time they have been in the Senate. That is not quite true because Senator Byrd was here, I suspect Senator Kennedy was here and maybe some others. Frankly, many of these people, I have never heard them ask: Where is the money coming from to pay for these spending programs? 
This motion says we can guarantee the fiscal discipline necessary to make balanced budgets the rule rather than the exception simply by enacting statutory changes to the Budget Act. 
As I said, I do not doubt that my colleague believes this and that he is sincere in offering this motion, but I must say that the proponents of this motion are dead wrong. 
The problem with this motion is that it puts us back to square one, forcing us to rely, as we have done time and time again, on statutory fixes to ensure fiscal responsibility. We have been down this road before, Mr. President, and the result is right here in front of me--28 unbalanced budgets in a row; 58 of the last 66 are unbalanced budgets. Just think about it. In the last 66 years, 58 years we have had an unbalanced budget. In every one of those years we have had people say, `Let's just do it. Let's do it statutorily.' 
Well, the time has come for a solution strong enough that it cannot be evaded for short-term gain. We need a constitutional requirement to balance the budget. 
The sad history of legislative attempts to balance the budget shows the need for a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Since 1978, we have adopted, as I have said many times on this floor, no fewer than five major statutory balanced budget mechanisms such as the distinguished Senator is putting forth here sincerely, none of which have worked. We have 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets. We have had statutory regimes for each of those 28 years, none of which has worked. Since 1978, we have adopted those five statutory regimes which promised faithfully to bring about balanced budgets. Every one of those failed and they failed miserably. Time after time, statutory fixes have met with increased deficits. Here it is. It does not take any brains, you do not have to be a rocket scientist to realize we do not have the guts to do what is right under the status quo, without the balanced budget amendment. 
Some people do not think we even have the guts to pass a balanced budget amendment. Well, in fact, nearly 85 percent of our current national debt has accumulated while Congress has operated within statutory budget frameworks designed to assure balanced budgets. The fact is we can never solve these problems through the enactment of mere statutes because statutes do not purport to correct the structural bias in favor of deficit spending. Statutes are only able to deal with temporary crises. 
Let's take a look at just a few of those statutes. 
In 1978, my first year here in the U.S. Senate, we passed the Revenue Act of 1978, P.L. 95-600. Section 3 of that act was straightforward. It stated: `As a matter of national policy * * * the Federal budget should be balanced in fiscal years 1982 and 1983.' But, if you look carefully, Mr. President, you will find the Federal budgets for each of those years in this stack here in front of me. In 1982 we ran a budget deficit of $128 billion. In 1983, our deficit was even higher at $208 billion. This while it was our national policy--as declared in statute enacted by Congress and agreed to by the President--that our budget should be balanced in each of those years. 
Now that is not to say that Congress was not serious about reaching balance. I was here and I can tell you that we were. In fact, later in that same year, 1978, we adopted an amendment offered by our former colleague Harry Byrd, Jr., from Virginia, which stated that `[b]eginning with fiscal year 1981, the total budget outlays of the Federal Government shall not exceed its receipts.' Two years later, in 1980, we modified the Byrd amendment to state that `[t]he Congress reaffirms its commitment that beginning with fiscal year 1981, the total outlays of the Federal Government shall not exceed its receipts.' You will notice that in reaffirming our commitment to a balanced budget we changed the language from saying that Congress `should' balance the budget to say that Congress `shall' balance the budget in 1981. And yet, Mr. President, the Federal budget for 1981 is also one of the 28 unbalanced budgets in this stack here in front of me. 
This again, is not to say that Congress' commitment to balancing the budget was in any way diminished. In 1982 we revised the Byrd amendment once again to say that `Congress reaffirms its commitment that budget outlays of the United States Government for a fiscal year may be not more than the receipts of the Government for that year.' And yet, Mr. President, the budget for every year since that commitment was enacted into statute is in this stack of unbalanced budgets. 
Perhaps the most well-known statute designed to ensure a balanced Federal budget was the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act of 1985. Many of my colleagues remember this act well. It was touted as the deficit reduction package to end all deficit reduction packages. I supported that legislation, and I held out great hope that it would actually bring us into balance for what then would have been the first time in 22 years. 
Much like the motion before us, the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act amended the Budget Act to provide for a point of order in the House or Senate against any budget resolution that exceeded certain deficit reduction targets. These declining deficit targets were to put us on the so-called glidepath to balance in fiscal year 1991. A point of order under this legislation could only be waived by a supermajority vote. The singular exception was for circumstances in which a declaration of war was in effect. 
That's pretty tough language, Mr. President. And it was backed up by an automatic sequestration mechanism to ensure that the deficit reduction targets were met. That's why so many of my colleagues and I supported the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act. And yet that law, Mr. President--the deficit reduction package to end all deficit reduction packages--was slowly amended, circumvented, and the requirement for a balanced budget finally eliminated altogether just one year prior to the year in which we were to achieve balance under the original act. As a result, we have now amassed an additional $1.3 trillion in debt since 1991. 
Mr. President, the Bumpers motion offers no better promises than the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act. Ultimately, as experience has shown, no Congress can bind a succeeding Congress by simple statute. Any balanced budget statute can be repealed, in whole or in part, by the simple expedient of adopting a new statute. Statutory limitations remain effective only as long as no majority coalition forms to overcome such statutory constraints. 
Now I know my colleagues have argued that things are different now than they were under Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. They cite too the fact that we have experienced four consecutive years of deficit reduction and that Congress and the President agree that the budget must be balanced. But the American people have plenty of reasons to be skeptical of this argument. 
Under the budget the President has proposed, we will have deficits larger than last year's budget deficit until the year 2000. Only in the last 2 years of his budget do we see the dramatic cuts necessary to bring us into balance. In other words, a full 75 percent of the deficit reduction planned in President Clinton's budget comes in the 2 years after he leaves office. Is this the sort of glide path to a balanced budget that is envisioned by section 1 of the Bumpers motion? 
This to me, Mr. President, is not the sort of commitment to balancing the budget that would support the argument that we can rely on yet another statutory fix to bring about long-term fiscal restraint. The reliability of this commitment is only undercut by the Bumpers amendment, which would remove Social Security receipts and outlays from the balanced budget calculation--something the President himself has said cannot be done while still bringing the budget into balance in the year 2002, as is promised by the Bumpers amendment. The truth is that the Bumpers amendment promises only more of the same--year after year of machinations and evasion of responsibility to those of the future generations who must pay for our lack of budgetary discipline. 
Now, Mr. President, I do not wish to lay blame on Democrats or Republicans for the fiscal indiscretions of the past. The simple fact is that the problems in our current budget are not the fault of any political party, they are inherent in our political system. As our late colleague Paul Tsongas once said:  
[I]f you ask yourself why are these deficits always voted, the answer is very simple; that is, there are a lot of votes in deficit spending. . . . []The balanced-budget amendment is simply a recognition of that human behavior. It is not so much an indictment of the people who are here now as it is simply a reflection this is how people act in a democracy. They act to maximize their votes, and in this particular case, the addiction to deficit spending takes them in a particular direction.' 
The fact is that we can never solve these problems through the enactment of mere statutes because statutes do not purport to correct this structural bias in favor of deficit spending. Statutes are only intended to deal with a temporary crisis. The deficit spending bias is not a problem that has lasted, nor will last, only a short number of years. It is a long-term problem that is deeply ingrained in our budget process. It demands a permanent constitutional solution. 
Senate Joint Resolution 1 is such a solution. It is a balanced, carefully crafted measure that has been developed in a bicameral, bipartisan fashion. I hope my colleagues will join with me in opposing the maintenance of the status quo and that they will vote to table the Bumpers motion. 
Having said that, I do get just a little uptight about people coming in here and blaming everything on Reagan and Bush. Yesterday, I had a debate with the distinguished Senator from West Virginia who tried to blame all of these deficits on Ronald Reagan and George Bush because during their tenure the deficits went up, and blame them on the tax cuts. 
I put into the Record yesterday evidence that those tax cuts, those marginal tax rate reductions actually resulted in a 40-percent, approximately 40-percent, increase in revenues because they stimulated the economy for 8 years, they contributed more jobs, more opportunity; 21 million jobs were created. They stimulated opportunity. They did a lot of things to get this country going again. But let me point out that during that whole time Reagan was in the Presidency, the Democrats controlled the House of Representatives. Tip O'Neil was in charge during the first part of that. And they kept spending. 
Now, I am not just blaming Democrats. There were liberal Republicans who helped them to do that as well. 
And there is no question that the increase in military spending did put pressures on the budget and that President Reagan was the one who did that. There is no question about that. 
But, on the other hand, if you think of the trillions of dollars that were saved because the Iron Curtain now has fallen and freedom has been restored to the East bloc countries, it probably was worth it. 
The blame should be on everybody. I don't think people should demagog this issue and stand up and say, `It is Reagan and Bush who did this thing to us and created this $5.3 trillion debt.' No, it is a continual, 58-out-of-66-year unbalanced spending process, during which time the Congress was controlled by liberals--let me put it that way, rather than Democrats and Republicans--liberals who spent us into bankruptcy. And during all of the Reagan years, the liberals did the same thing. 
Had we not continued to spend, those marginal tax cuts would have brought us out of the difficulties, except with the possible exception, at least as I view it, of the increases in the defense budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time remains? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am prepared to yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970227</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to table and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time remains on both sides? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, I will try to save some time for the distinguished Senator from California so she can make her wrap-up remarks out of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If you desire to say anything else, I will certainly extend that courtesy to you. 
Mr. President, the balanced budget amendment was written by both sides of the floor. This amendment has been developed over a period of almost 40 years. It has taken both Republicans and Democrats to do it. It is a bipartisan amendment. Even though some in this body might try to see some flaw in it, it is the only balanced budget amendment that has a chance of passage. It is well thought through, it makes sense, and it's the only one that can end having unbalanced budgets year after year, like this stack represents the last 28 years of our budgetary life in this country. I might add that for 58 of the last 66 years we have had similar unbalanced budgets. These stacks are obscene; we know that. I think it tells the story better than anything else I can do. These folks just want to continue the status quo. 
Now, the distinguished Senator from California is very sincere, and I admire her for it. She is on our committee. I care for her and I care for her ideas. But in all honesty, I have to rise in opposition to the substitute offered by my colleague from California. With the various escape clauses she has built into her amendment, it would be too easily gamed, and I believe it would be ineffective in stopping Washington's debt addiction. As we have debated the balanced budget amendment here on the Senate floor for the past several weeks, we have seen amendment after amendment that seeks to gut the substance of the proposed constitutional amendment. 
What we have here is yet another attempt to make the balanced budget amendment ineffectual by carving out ways to deficit spend. How does this amendment of the distinguished Senator from California, as sincere as she is, make it easier to deficit spend? `Let me count the ways,' to paraphrase Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 
No. 1, it scales back the number of votes necessary to raise the debt limit. We know how easy it is to raise the debt limit around here, when that is the only methodology you have. So it scales that back from a three-fifths vote to a constitutional majority. 
No. 2, it provides a waiver for undefined economic emergencies. These people are really clever in the Congress. They can define anything as an economic emergency. All they have to do is pass a statute saying it is an economic emergency. 
No. 3, it provides yet another waiver for undefined natural disasters. 
No. 4, it exempts Social Security from the balanced budget calculation beginning in the year 2003. 
No. 5, it carves out a separate exemption for items designated as capital investment. 
Can you imagine what these intelligent, ingenious, and, in some ways, devious people in the Congress who have done this to us over the last 28 years could do with capital investments? 
Now, Mr. President, I wonder what is left. The reason we are here on the floor debating a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution is not to make it easier to deficit spend. We are here to constrain that sort of runaway spending that has produced unbalanced budgets in every one of the last 28 years. The Feinstein amendment does not do that. 
Let me take a few minutes to address the substance of each of the changes proposed by the Feinstein amendment individually. The Feinstein amendment would alter section 5 of the bipartisan balanced budget amendment to allow for a waiver of the balanced budget rule by a constitutional majority in any year `in which the United States is experiencing a national economic emergency or major natural disaster.' 
As an initial matter, the undefined terms `economic emergency' and `natural disaster' are malleable terms and could be abused by any future Congress bent on deficit spending. What constitutes an economic emergency? We have already resoundingly rejected an amendment on this issue because it is a broad loophole. 
Now, what about natural disasters? Does this amendment mean to say that the balanced budget amendment can be waived by 51 votes in the Senate in any year in which there is a natural disaster in some region of the United States? There is hardly any year when we don't have something somebody claims is a natural disaster. If that is the case, and given the fact that natural disaster is not defined, isn't it plausible, or even likely, that Congress will routinely find something to classify as a natural disaster, thereby providing an excuse to waive the requirements of the balanced budget amendment. Twenty-eight years of unbalanced budgets would suggest that this is the case. Congress will find a way if you give them these kinds of generic terms that are not defined and really can't be defined. 
What's more, nothing in this amendment of the distinguished Senator from California would require the additional spending to be directed to the communities affected by a natural disaster or to be used to get us out of a recession. `Natural disasters' or `economic emergencies' are only the triggers that let us spend whatever we want for whatever purpose. Because these terms are so malleable and subject to abuse, we need a supermajority provision to guarantee fidelity to the balanced budget rule. 
The general three-fifths waiver contained in section 1 of Senate Joint Resolution 1 is both sufficient to answer the concerns raised by this 
amendment and strong enough to keep the balanced budget amendment meaningful. The Feinstein amendment would exclude Social Security outlays and receipts from unified budget calculations until 1 year after the effective date of Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. 
In essence, the Feinstein amendment is nothing more than the Reid amendment we debated yesterday to exclude Social Security from Senate Joint Resolution 1 and unified budgets, with one wrinkle--the exemption will not go into effect until 1 year after the date that the balanced budget amendment becomes effective. This would allow, of course, President Clinton to include the current Social Security surpluses in his budget calculations but would leave future Presidents and Congresses holding the bag when they are forced to unnecessarily slash programs like Medicare because the budget deficit appears larger without Social Security surpluses than it really is. 
Moreover, the explanation of the distinguished Senator from California of her provision, and the charts that illustrate it, contemplate implementing this change by a one-time massive cut in a single year. Opponents of the balanced budget amendment have regularly argued that such an abrupt change would cause serious economic distortions in our country. The Feinstein amendment suffers from the same disease as the Reid amendment. It is not a workable compromise because, for the most part, Social Security surpluses will be excluded from the protections provided by the balanced budget amendment. 
As King Solomon wisely knew, there is no practical way to split the baby without destroying life. If you split the baby and put Social Security exposed out there without any balanced budget protections and everything else is in the budget and protected, Social Security will become a political football to be used by those who want to get around the balanced budget. 
And everybody here knows that. Everybody knows what a phony issue that is. 
So, too, the Feinstein amendment will destroy the viability of the balanced budget amendment. 
First, as I discussed during the debate on the Reid amendment, it is necessary to include Social Security in any balanced budget plan. Obviously, without including Social Security, the largest single item in the Federal budget, other programs must be cut far more than they really need to be. I have the belief that the distinguished Senator from California would be among the first to want to oppose those cuts. Certainly I wouldn't feel good about cutting things beyond where they should be cut. But that is what inevitably would happen if the Reid amendment had passed yesterday, or the Feinstein amendment is passed today. 
The proponents of this amendment have not told us which programs they will cut in order to come up with approximately $100 billion per year that the total exclusion of Social Security surpluses will cost us. Astoundingly, this figure is greater than our combined annual expenditure on education, the environment, and transportation and infrastructure. In fact, between 2003 and 2019, when the Social Security outlays will exceed receipts, the trust fund is expected to earn more than $1.8 trillion. Where do the supporters of the Feinstein amendment propose to come up with the money necessary to cover this self-imposed shortfall? It is no secret around here that many on the other side support this amendment because they want to kill the balanced budget amendment. That is the whole game here. I do not believe that is the motive of the distinguished Senator from California. At least I hope it isn't. But that is the only reason why this amendment will be supported by our friends on the other side, if you really analyze it. 
Let's put it in perspective. Discretionary savings from last year's budget resolution, which were described as draconian, were only $291 billion. The Feinstein amendment would require that Congress cut spending or raise taxes more than six times that amount. 
Similarly, the projected revenues from the 1993 Clinton tax increase--the largest tax increase in history, many assert--were only $241 billion. The Feinstein amendment would require that Congress cut spending or increase taxes over six times this largest tax increase in history. These levels of spending cuts and tax increases are clearly unworkable. And the adoption of the Feinstein amendment would kill any chance the balanced budget amendment has of being ratified. That is really in the eyes of many who hate this balanced budget amendment, who do not want fiscal restraint, and who really want to continue their taxing and spending ways. That is really why they support the Feinstein amendment. 
One person who testified against the balanced budget amendment said--if you are going to have a balanced budget amendment you should not exclude anything from the budget. 
Second, exempting Social Security from the mandates of the balanced budget amendment for any considerable period of time will probably result in the demise of the Social Security program years 
earlier. Such an exemption will create a powerful incentive to redefine taxing and spending programs as Social Security, and to pay for them through what could become a giant loophole in any attempt to balance the budget. 
Opponents of the balanced budget amendment incorrectly contend that including present-day Social Security surpluses in a unified budget would raid the trust funds. Give me a break. This is a complete misnomer because the surpluses are nothing more than an accounting record. Social Security FICA taxes are deposited with other revenues. Interest-bearing securities are purchased equal to the amounts of Social Security receipts. And those are Federal Government U.S. interest-bearing securities. These securities provide safe investments as long as we are financially solvent in this country, as long as we don't go broke, as long as our economy is going ahead, and the only thing that is going to keep us doing that for sure will be if we pass the balanced budget amendment. 
The fact is that these securities provide a safe investment, the safest in the world, I have to say, as long as this country is safe. This safety, however, would be wrecked if Social Security were removed from the protection of Senate Joint Resolution 1's balancing requirements. In fact, the very fears of the advocates of the Feinstein amendment will be realized. Their exemption of Social Security will really cause the trust fund to be raided. That is the ironic situation here. Why? Because under the Feinstein amendment trust fund receipts would be used to finance other costly programs that they would simply call Social Security. 
I heard the distinguished Senator from Nevada, Senator Reid, 2 days ago say that Social Security is defined by statute. If it is defined by statute, it can be redefined by statute. There is no argument against that. It is ridiculous to sit here and argue that it will not be used as a loophole to spend anything they want to spend by calling it Social Security. Trust fund receipts really could be used to finance other costly programs by simply relabeling them `Social Security.' 
With the loophole proposed by this exemption in place there will be an irresistible impulse in future Congresses to redefine unrelated programs as Social Security. This in turn will create an incentive for Congress to include costly programs as part of Social Security. Congress has not been able to restrain itself. 
Look at these. There is just no answer to this by those who oppose the balanced budget amendment. Anything they try to say just comes out when you look at 28 years of unbalanced budgets, and 58 of them over the last 66 years. This is not rocket science. It doesn't take any brains to understand that Congress is incapable of living within its means unless we put in some sort of restraint within the Constitution that requires them to live within their means. 
So I am saying that if you carve out Social Security that in turn would create an incentive for Congress to include costly programs as part of Social Security. Like I say, Congress can't restrain itself from either wasteful spending or increasing this web of services provided by Social Security. What is going to prevent them from doing that in the future if you have all of the loopholes that the Feinstein amendment provides for? Are we 
willing to let future Congresses roll the dice with the financial security of America's seniors? That is what is going to happen if we do not have a balanced budget amendment. Mark my word, it certainly is going to happen if we pass the Feinstein amendment and put Social Security out there exposed all by itself and not subject to balanced budget protections. Frankly, if the Feinstein amendment passes the balanced budget amendment is dead. There is no use kidding about it. It would be killed, and for good reason because it wouldn't work anyway. So that is what we are talking about. 
Passing an exemption loophole would essentially create two Federal budgets. One would be based on sound principles of solvency, and the other, the Social Security budget, which would not be based on sound principles of solvency. One budget would be required to be in balance unless a supermajority voted to allow a deficit. The other the Social Security budget would be raided and bloated with unrelated spending programs and projects. 
Taking Social Security off budget will subject the funds to Washington's special interest scavengers. As I have said before, when you have rats in your house, you need to plug up the holes. If you do not, they are going to find a way in. If we leave Social Security off budget all of the special interest spending initiatives, which cannot survive or make their way in under a balanced budget plan, will smell out the scent of Social Security and devour it. 
This loophole would not only blow a hole in the balanced budget amendment but it would also seriously harm Social Security. This in turn could mean--and I think would mean--the end of Social Security as we know it, transforming it into the least secure of all Federal Government programs. I do not see how anybody can argue with that. 
Third, let's not forget about the troubling future for Social Security. The Feinstein amendment does absolutely nothing to protect Social Security, and, in fact, it will make it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to achieve balanced budgets. The Social Security Board of Trustees estimates that by the year 2070, if we keep going the way we currently are, Social Security is expected to run an annual $7 trillion deficit. If we include Social Security in our balanced budget calculations we will be able to prepare for and budget for these massive shortfalls. Under the Feinstein proposal we will not be including this deficit in our budgetary planning. 
As a result, under the Feinstein amendment, in order to raise revenue and increase the debt ceiling sufficient to cover the expected Social Security shortfalls of the next century, we will have to dramatically increase taxes or cut spending on other important programs or face an annual three-fifths-vote fiscal crisis to avoid financial default by raising the already staggering $5.3 trillion national debt ceiling. The way to protect Social Security benefits is to pass the balanced budget amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1. 
The proposal to exempt Social Security will not only destroy the balanced budget amendment but in all probability will cause the Social Security trust funds to run out of money sooner than they would have without an exemption. 
The final change in the amendment of the distinguished Senator would permit the creation of capital budgets for those major capital improvements which require multiyear Federal funding. Most programs are funded for more than 1 year. Exempting capital budgets from the balanced budget amendment is bad policy because it creates a powerful incentive for Congress and the President to balance the budget by redefining more programs as capital expenditures. This is just another loophole. A gimmick capital budget exemption could actually endanger capital investments as fake investments crowd out real investment. 
For these reasons, budget experts, including the President's Office of Management and Budget, the General Accounting Office, and the Congressional Budget Office, have suggested that capital budgets are inappropriate at the Federal level and certainly do not justify increasing debt to finance them. The amendment of the distinguished Senator from California would enshrine that into the Constitution. 
The most basic problem with the separate capital budget as envisioned by the Feinstein amendment is that there is no clear standard definition of a capital budget. So no one knows what expenditures will fall within that definition. For example, in President Clinton's proposed fiscal year 1998 budget, the Office of Management and Budget lists four broad categories of programs that may or may not be considered capital expenditures, ranging from physical assets owned by the Federal Government to social investment, including nutrition programs, health care and drug rehabilitation, all under the idea of a capital budget. 
Mr. President, perhaps the point was best made in a Washington Post editorial criticizing the Reagan administration for floating the idea of a capital budget. In that editorial, the Post wrote that `The concept of the capital budget applied to the Federal Government is pure fakery. It is the resort of an administration that, finding the realities of the budget intractable, wants to fuzz up the numbers.' Pretty hard to argue with that. Pretty hard to argue with that. 
Finally, Mr. President, given all these holes in the balanced budget rule proposal offered by the distinguished Senator from California, it is no wonder the proponents of this substitute have concluded that they need to reduce the supermajority requirement to raise the debt ceiling in their substitute. Given the high likelihood of substantial borrowing under this substitute for 
undefined capital spending, undefined economic emergencies and natural disasters and the possible loophole for the abuse of Social Security, no wonder the proponents of this substitute do not want to have the three-fifths vote to raise the debt ceiling. Instead, they reduce the antidebt protections of Senate Joint Resolution 1 to a constitutional majority. 
Now, Mr. President, I hope we will reject this substitute, which is essentially a hit parade of loopholes repeatedly offered over the years by opponents of the bipartisan consensus balanced budget amendment and which could literally endanger Social Security. 
The Feinstein amendment is a hit parade of loopholes offered in past debates. How can we keep borrowing? How can we keep doing this to ourselves, doing this to future generations, doing this to our children and our grandchildren? These volumes, this picture speaks a thousand words, a million words, maybe I should say trillions of words, as to why we have to get strong about doing something about these unbalanced budgets. 
Let me count the ways why this amendment is wrong. 
No. 1, it exempts an undefined capital budget, allowing any level of borrowing for capital as defined by future Congresses. They could do anything they want to under this amendment. Just define them--any statute, any simple majority. 
No. 2, it allows for a waiver of the balanced budget rule in times of economic emergency or natural disaster, however interpreted by any future Congress. They could do anything they want to if we adopt the Feinstein amendment. The balanced budget amendment would be a thing of the past. There would be no hope to have any fiscal mechanism at all. In fact, it would be the biggest joke you could possibly have. 
No. 3, it exempts whatever a future Congress calls `Social Security.' They could define anything as Social Security. This endangers the retirement security of current and future American seniors. 
And No. 4, because of all these loopholes for deficit spending, it reduces the supermajority requirement to raise the debt ceiling from a three-fifths majority to a constitutional majority or 51 percent. 
The substitute offered by the Senator from California should be rejected. It would allow continued deficit spending and borrowing, as has happened in the past 28 years, or should I say in 58 of the last 66 years. It would just continue the process, only make it easier to do it under the guise that we are somehow or other living within a balanced budget amendment constraint as defined by this amendment. 
Mr. President, look, we are talking about the future of our country. We are talking about our children. We are talking about our grandchildren. We are talking about our seniors. We are talking about a country that is going to be swallowed up in debt if we do not pass a balanced budget amendment. 
I had one of the leading liberals from the Democratic side tell me yesterday in no uncertain terms that--in fact, more than one--I have had at least three or four just flat out admit that if it had not been for these fights for the balanced budget--and 
these people, all but one of these people are against the balanced budget amendment--if it had not been for these fights over the balanced budget amendment, if we had not waged this battle, we would not even be talking about balanced budgets. 
All you have to do is look at this year's balanced budget submitted by President Clinton, and he is not alone. I saw budgets by several Presidents that also were smoke and mirrors because they have to; there is no restraint; there is nothing that forces them to do right. But you look at the budget that President Clinton called a balanced budget this year, that he just submitted. According to the Congressional Budget Office, which has been pretty accurate on some of these matters, that budget by the year 2002 will not be balanced; it will be at least $49 billion in deficit, and that is assuming that all these rosy scenarios the President has plugged into it are coming to pass. That is assuming that. The fact is, it will not be balanced. 
Second, even if it was true that it would be balanced, everybody knows the only way we can reach balance is to attack the deficits each and every year up to the year 2002. President Clinton's budget goes up for the next 4 years, and then he calls for a 75-percent reduction in the 2 years after he leaves office. It does not take a rocket scientist to realize that is a phony budget, that they have tried to get around the requisite of bringing up here a balanced budget. He said he would. But it clearly is not a balanced budget. And it clearly could not be balanced. Even if you assume that it is--and the Congressional Budget Office says it is not--the fact is, it could not be balanced by a 75-percent reduction in the 2 years after the President leaves office. It is as phony a budget as you can have from that standpoint. But we are going to work from it because we are going to have to. 
Let me just say this. If we pass the substitute amendment of the Senator from California today, those games will become even more pronounced. No, what we have to do is, we have to realize that over the last 20 years--frankly, longer than that--good Democrats and good Republicans have fought together to work this out. We have worked it out. This is the only amendment that has a chance of passage. It has to pass unamended. 
Frankly, I hope that our colleagues will vote down the Feinstein amendment and support the balanced budget amendment in the end. If this goes down, it is going to be because of one vote. No matter what the final vote is, it is going to be because of one vote. I can tell you that right now. I do not believe it is going to go down. I believe we will pass this amendment in the Senate, and I am hopeful that this will be an incentive to go to the House. 
Mr. President, do I have any time remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Then I yield back the remainder of my time, and I move to table and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am sorry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to table the amendment and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I know there are a couple of Senators who want to qualify their amendments. 
UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that immediately following the vote on Senator Torricelli's amendment, Senator Dorgan be recognized to offer his substitute amendment. I further ask unanimous consent that there be 2 hours of debate equally divided in the usual form, and following the expiration or yielding back of time, the Senate proceed to a vote on or in relation to the Dorgan amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Wisconsin. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 15 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we have before us an amendment that contains three separate changes to the balanced budget amendment. I do not believe that any of these three changes would be appropriate. I don't think they are wise or necessary, and so I have to oppose Senator Torricelli's amendment. 
Let me add that all of these things, at least in concept, have already been rejected by the Senate. There is no reason to adopt them now. 
The first change in the amendment would allow for a waiver of the balanced budget rule by a majority vote in any year where the United States is in a period of economic recession or significant economic hardship. 
Mr. President, this portion of the Torricelli amendment is similar to the Durbin amendment that the Senate defeated by an overwhelming 64 to 35 vote just 2 weeks ago. The reasons it was rejected apply to the Torricelli amendment as well. In fact, they may apply with greater force, as this language is more permissive and less clear than was the Durbin amendment. 
The terms used in this amendment are undefined. The determination of `an economic recession,' or `significant economic hardship,' could easily be manipulated by a spendthrift Congress as a way to avoid the discipline of the balanced budget amendment. Nearly anything could be seen as a significant economic hardship if considered from a certain point of view. It is important to note that even during times of national economic prosperity, some regions may experience localized downturns. This proposal could allow such regional hardships to justify waiving the balanced budget amendment and giving the country deficits at the exact time it should be running surpluses. 
Thus, the amendment, I am sorry to say, would create a huge loophole, a giant loophole, that would swallow the balanced budget rule. It is also important to note that if the balanced budget amendment is waived for a session, it is waived for all spending in that year. In other words, the amendment would permit deficit spending for any number of projects that are in no way related to the so-called significant economic hardship. 
Just remember President Clinton's 1993 attempt to push through a multibillion-dollar emergency stimulus boondoggle under the guise of trying to end a recession which had, in fact, already ended. Mr. President, if you take your finger out of the hole in the dike, then the whole town can be flooded. 
One of the arguments made in favor of this proposal is that without it, the balanced budget amendment will somehow inhibit the functions of the so-called automatic stabilizers. I have spoken extensively on this issue, and I think it is clear that the importance of automatic stabilizers has been overstated and, in any case, the balanced budget amendment will not inhibit their functioning. 
Moreover, this amendment does not respond to the concerns raised about the automatic stabilizers. It simply allows Congress to avoid the balanced budget by a lower threshold. Put simply, 
this proposal is a loophole and should be rejected, as I hope it will be, just as a similar proposal was overwhelmingly rejected a couple of weeks ago. 
The next change this amendment would make to the balanced budget amendment would be to permit a waiver by a simple majority when the United States `faces an imminent and serious military threat to national security.' If this proposal sounds familiar to my colleagues, it is because it is the same amendment that Senator Dodd proposed about 2 weeks ago. That amendment was discussed thoroughly and soundly defeated by a vote of 64 to 36. 
This provision would permit a waiver if the United States merely faces a threat. I understand what military conflict is. It involves shooting. But the notion of a mere threat is far more pliable. Indeed, ever since the advent and proliferation of nuclear weapons, it could be cogently argued that the United States `faces an imminent and serious military threat to national security' every minute of every day. Thus, anyone who seeks refuge from the tough choices necessary to balance the budget could invoke this threat and waive the balanced budget rule if this provision is incorporated into this balanced budget amendment. 
In short, Mr. President, this proposal is another huge loophole, or would create a potentially huge loophole. Its effect is to weaken and confuse the standard by which the balanced budget amendment may be waived and, thus, it would weaken the balanced budget amendment. It should be rejected, as it was before. 
The third change that the amendment of my friend from New Jersey would make would be to exempt spending on capital items from the balanced budget rule. Similar proposals were contained in the Feinstein amendment that the Senate just rejected only a few moments ago. 
One part of this proposal is that the definition of receipts, instead of excluding all funds derived from borrowing, would now exclude only those derived from `net borrowing and the disposition of major public physical capital assets.' Outlays still include repayment of debt principal, but also would exclude `those dedicated to a capital budget.' 
While I am not entirely clear on the purpose or full ramifications of the net borrowing provision from its placement, it appears to take account of depreciation of the current year's capital or economic income of an item in the capital budget. It might perhaps have other effects. In any event, it might artificially make receipts seem higher, as a matter of accounting, than they really are. That, in turn, could allow future Congresses to avoid a three-fifths vote in some years where there is a deficit by manipulation of the net borrowing provision of this amendment. I expressed concerns about this language when my colleague from New Jersey proposed it in the Judiciary Committee. Those concerns have increased now that he has expanded the exception from what it was in his committee amendment. Depreciation is a highly malleable concept which could allow substantial gaming of this provision. Additionally, this proposal would not count the proceeds from the sale of capital assets. I do not understand why we would limit commonsense flexibility in this way. 
The next change this amendment would make would be to exclude `investments in major public physical capital that provides long-term benefits' from the definition of outlays. Mr. President, what does this mean? How big must an investment be to be considered major? How far into the future must benefits be realized for the investment to be considered long term? Is a health program for children physical because children are an asset? 
I could go on for hours on the interpretation, or the potential interpretations, this huge loophole would make and allow. Exempting capital budgets from the balanced budget amendment opens up a tremendous loophole in the amendment. There would be powerful incentives for Congress and the President to balance the budget by redefining more programs as capital expenditures. 
A gimmick capital budget exemption could actually endanger capital investments, as fake investments crowd out real capital investments. The most basic problem with that is that all discussions of capital accounts are that there is no clear standard definition of a capital budget. So no one knows what expenditures will fall within that definition. Attempts to limit the reach of the capital budget definition are largely exercises in futility, because the terms are inherently malleable. 
Creative budgeters can find a way to get more spending into that capital category. 
Just yesterday the President recognized these activities and created a Capital Budget Commission to study whether the Federal Government should implement a capital budgeting procedure, since many in his administration, including the Secretary of Treasury, think it would be horrible to implement a capital budget procedure from the Federal standpoint. 
One of the primary duties of this Commission will be to report on the appropriate definition of capital budgets including `use of capital for the Federal Government itself or the economy at large; ownership by the Federal Government or some other entity; defense and nondefense capital; physical capital and intangible or human capital; distinctions among investments in and for current, future, and retired workers, capital to increase productivity and capital to enhance the quality of life; and existing definitions of capital for budgeting.' 
Gee, that covers everything. It just means that the balanced budget amendment would be a worthless piece of paper--with this amendment, it would become a worthless piece of the Constitution. 
This list of possible items to be included certainly suggests the difficulties in defining capital budgets and limiting the exceptions to the balanced budget amendment. Yet, today we are asked to enshrine some form of capital budgets in the Constitution before this Commission has even started its work. 
To be honest with you, nobody should be deceived. I think we are going through what we went through before when they needed a vote and formed a Commission to get that vote, and then totally ignored the findings of the Commission afterward. There is nobody in this administration that really believes in capital budgets for the Federal Government, or at least I do not know of anybody. And I have seen plenty of evidence that they do not believe in the use of capital budgets and that it is inappropriate to use them for the Federal Government. So it is just another attempt to try to defeat the balanced budget amendment by the White House. And I do not think anybody fails to understand that who has been around here for any period of time. 
The definitional problems inherent in capital budgeting are made clear in President Clinton's proposed fiscal year 1998 budget. In it, the OMB, that is, the Office of Management and Budget, lists four broad categories of programs that may or may not be considered capital expenditures, ranging from physical assets owned by the Federal Government to social investment including nutrition programs, health care, and drug rehabilitation, among other social welfare spending. That is taken from the `Office of Management and Budget, Analytical Perspectives, Proposed FY 1998 Budget,' at page 101. Even within those four broad categories, there are questions about which programs should be included. It is particularly inappropriate to place capital budgeting in the Constitution when there is no agreement on what constitutes a capital budget. Nor is there likely to be agreement after the so-called suddenly created Commission does its work. 
This concern has been echoed by the Congressional Budget Office in the testimony of Robert Hartman before the House 
Subcommittee on Economic Development in 1993. He stated the following:  
Establishing a capital budget imposes a significant risk of increasing Government consumption by reducing budget discipline and encouraging the reclassification of operating expenditures as investment. 
Now, put another way, capital budgets are a loophole which could reduce budgetary discipline. The very last thing our children need is for us to have less budgetary discipline. 
Mr. Hartman continued his criticism of capital budgeting by noting that the Federal Government is not constrained by the normal disciplinary factors that face most potential borrowers. Most people who want to borrow must demonstrate to the bank a reasonable likelihood that the investment will pay off, so that the bank can judge the risk of the investment. 
[T]he Federal Government--with the sovereign power to tax and create money--faces little discipline from lenders, who are assured of being repaid independent of the productivity of the Government's investment. The restraint that does exist is almost entirely internal and must be self-imposed. That was Robert Hartman. 
You know, we have seen, Mr. President, what happens when Congress tries to discipline itself. I think the best illustration I could give is standing right here, 28 straight undisciplined, unbalanced budgets. 
The fact is, these two stacks represent 28 solid straight years of unbalanced budgets. Yeah, we have people coming in here and saying, we can just do this. All we have to do is vote. This is the kind of discipline that we have without the balanced budget amendment. I tell you this. If we do not pass a balanced budget amendment, these two stacks are going to go to the ceiling of this Chamber and beyond because there is no way that there is going to be the fiscal discipline that really is needed. We have 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets. 
In the absence of external discipline, borrowing choices may not be made on economic grounds. Borrowing can instead become a source of seemingly unlimited money from which Congress could fund any special interest with sufficient political clout. It is exactly these types of perverse incentives that have gotten us into $5.3 trillion of debt. 
Building on the testimony of Robert Hartman, CBO has noted that: 
[The Federal Government] Unlike private investment that is guided by market considerations, political factors may dominate the choice of public investment projects. 
That is a nice way of saying what financial markets expert David Malpass stated as part of his testimony before the Judiciary Committee last month, regarding a Federal capital budget exemption: 
One person's capital investment is another person's pork-barreling. 
The Washington Post was even less diplomatic in an editorial that was highly critical of capital budgeting when the idea was floated during the Reagan administration. This is what the Washington Post said about capital budgets: 
The concept of a capital budget, applied to the Federal Government, is pure fakery. It is the resort of an administration that, finding the realities of the budget intractable, wants to fuzz up the numbers. . . . To introduce capital budgeting into the Federal accounts would create such wide realms of discretion, and such sponginess of the figures, that a diligent budget director could bring the deficit out at any number he chose. 
Well, as you can see, the Clinton administration joined the consensus against debt-financed capital budgeting when it stated in the President's 1998 budget document: 
. . . the rationale for borrowing to finance . . . investment is not persuasive. . . . A capital budget is not a justification to relax current and proposed budget constraints. 
The proposed budget constraints in the balanced budget amendment most certainly should not be relaxed. 
They further suggested that the Government borrowing crowds out private use of that capital which has offsetting negative effects on the overall economy and the return of the Government's investment. 
Let me add, that the Capital Budget Commission that the President announced yesterday specifically did not authorize the consideration of deficit-funded capital budgets. The administration clearly appears to be opposed to such proposals. But that is exactly what my friend from New Jersey's amendment encourages. I may not object to having a capital budget that is funded out of annual tax receipts, but it would be a risky gimmick to have debt-funded capital budgets which nearly everybody agrees should not be enshrined into our beloved Constitution. 
Mr. President, the nonpartisan General Accounting Office has also found fault with the notion of debt financing of capital budgeting. In a 1992 study by the GAO, entitled `Prompt Action Necessary to Prevent Long-term Damage to the Economy,' the GAO on capital budgets said:  
The creation of explicit categories for governmental capital and developmental investment expenditures should not be viewed as a license to run deficits to finance these categories. In the short run, both consumption and investment goods use economic resources, and deficit financing for either will absorb resources that would otherwise be available for private investment. Deficits also raise Federal interest costs, regardless of the source of the deficit . . . the choice between spending for investment and spending for consumption should be seen as the setting of priorities within an overall fiscal constraint, not as a reason for relaxing that constraint and permitting a larger deficit. 
In other words, capital expenditures should be kept inside the balanced budget role of the amendment, something that my friend's amendment would not do. 
Now, Mr. President, OMB, GAO, and CBO have all expressed serious reservations about implementing a debt-financed capital budget in even a statutory manner. Yet this amendment would enshrine it in the Constitution. Proponents of capital budgets have suggested that because States rely on capital budgets to finance depreciable investment expenditures, the Federal Government should likewise be able to account for such expenditures separately from its main operating budget. 
The simple fact is, Mr. President, that the Federal budget, unlike State budgets, is sufficiently large to handle capital expenditures. The Federal budget for fiscal year 1997 is projected to exceed $1.6 trillion. Of that we will spend approximately $21 billion in direct Federal outlays for what the President's budget defines as nondefense, physical capital investment, the category most analogous to State government or private capital budgets. That is a mere 1.3 percent of the total Federal budget for that year. There is no reason why these relatively small investment expenditures cannot compete with other budget priorities under the stricture of the balanced budget amendment. 
The fact is that the Federal Government does not need capital budgeting as much as smaller entities because it commands such a large budget. The analogy to capital budgeting by businesses or States is inept because the Federal Government is not subject to the same checks as either private businesses or State and local institutions or governments. 
Private businesses are disciplined by markets. State and local government capital budgeting is subject to bond ratings. These checks on the abuse of capital budgets will not exist under a Federal capital budget, making it far more likely that a Federal capital budget would be abused. CBO has observed, and let me just quote them, 
The main difficulty with relying on Government investment spending is that unlike private investment that is guided by market considerations, political factors may dominate the choice of the public investment projects. 
Now, Mr. President, all three proposals in the amendment of my friend from New Jersey have already been debated, all have been rejected during this debate, two of them in stand-alone amendments. The last thing we need to do is weaken the rules requiring a balanced budget. We have 28 years of unbalanced budgets here to show that. 
Under the Torricelli amendment, we would absolutely be expecting more of the same. There is no question about it. I know the distinguished Senator from New Jersey, and I know that he wants to get spending under control. I know that he is sincere in bringing this amendment forth. Literally, it would open up so many doors to violating the balanced budget rule that I have to oppose it, I reluctantly have to oppose it. 
What we need is a straightforward amendment like we have, like Senate Joint Resolution 1, the amendment that most of us are fighting for so hard, an amendment without risky gimmicks and without loopholes. Senate Joint Resolution 1 is such an amendment. It has been carefully drafted over many years and represents a balanced, bipartisan, bicameral approach, and it is the only way that we can return fiscal responsibility and sanity to this Government. I am convinced of that, and I think there is no question the vast majority of our Senators are convinced of it. The question is, can we get 67 votes in order to pass? I believe we can. I have faith that we can. I think this is the last chance. This is the only amendment that has any chance of passage for the Congress. It is the last chance to do it, and it really is coming down to just one vote. 
Now, I pray with all my heart that we will be able to pass it here. I do not know what they will do in the House. I suspect if we pass it here, it will have momentum going to the House, and I expect it to be passed there. I expect to pass it here. 
I do not want to spend any more time on this amendment. I have done the best I can to explain why I cannot support it and why I am asking my colleagues not to support it. Yet I understand that it is a serious amendment, and I appreciate the seriousness of my colleague from New Jersey. He is on our committee. He played a significant role during the debate of this matter in the committee, and I respect him. 
With that, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, I think the Senator raises a very good point, which is that there are some who say that we ought to balance the budget like the States. Well, there are 44 States that have balanced budget amendments. First, that is a difference there. We don't have a balanced budget amendment in the Constitution; they do in theirs. Second, some States do have capital budgets and, therefore, are different. But the reason they are different is because States don't print the money. We print the money. We have a huge budget. They have to live within certain constraints. So it isn't exactly alike, there is no question. What we are requiring here is the Federal Government--I mentioned in my remarks that in the fiscal 1998 budget are some $20 billion-plus, less than 1.6 percent of the total budget, that would be used for capital budgets. 
The Federal Government has such a massive budget that it doesn't need capital budgets. Most budgeteers will say don't do it to the Federal Government, for a wide variety of reasons. Let me read from this because I think it applies directly to what my friend has raised. He always raises good questions, and this is certainly a good one. This book is entitled `Analytical Perspectives: Budget of the United States Government, Fiscal Year 1998,' prepared by the administration. 
In one section here, it says: 
State borrowing to finance investment, like business borrowing, is subject to limitations that do not apply to Federal borrowing. Like business borrowing, it is constrained by the credit market's assessment of the State's capacity to repay. Furthermore, it is usually designated for specified investments, and it is almost always subject to constitutional limits or referendum requirements. 
We are not subject to referendum requirements. We are not subject to constitutional limits. If we had the amendment of the Senator from New Jersey and that became part of this constitutional amendment, we would not have the same designated, specified investment routine. You could do almost anything you wanted to do with the language in that amendment. Of course, there is no bond rating that can rate the Federal Government. I think that is why we don't have the same free market or even economic marketplace ideas that literally would constrain the Federal Government. 
I have to also say that the amendment of the distinguished Senator from New Jersey literally opens up the door to anything. You could call anything capital budgeting, including perhaps even physical welfare matters which, of course, when you think of capital budgeting you think of roads and bridges. Frankly, you could just put anything in there. That is why this language is so broad that it can't be put into the Constitution because there is no definition. It could be used in any way that the proponents of more spending want to use it. There would be no limitation of restraint. There are no referendums that you could use to stop impropriety and excessive spending and vesting, if you will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would be glad to do that. If my colleague gets short on time, I will try to accommodate him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Indeed, it does. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, there may be some responsible economists who are for putting capital budgets into the Federal Government's budget process. I personally do not know of any. If there are, I do not think that their arguments would stand up. To compare the State and the Federal Government, the distinguished Senator from West Virginia raises a good issue. You can't fully compare State budgeting with Federal budgeting. I agree with him. On the other hand, you can't say we should have a capital budget in the Federal budget because it is clear that the Federal Government doesn't operate like the States. We print the money. We don't have a referendum nor do we have a balanced budget amendment that would restrain the spending. If you have these huge loopholes, whether you have a balanced budget amendment or not, it just wouldn't work. Plus you have 50 States where it is pretty tough for State legislators in an individual State with a balanced budget amendment to fudge and fuzz up the language. In the Federal Government it is a lot easier. We just can't put this kind of language in there. It is just that simple. And if you do that, then you have made a loophole, an undefined loophole that would allow any subsequent Congress that is irresponsible--and we have had 28 years of irresponsibility. I mean all you have to do is look at this stack of unbalanced budgets for the last 28 years, and headed higher. I have to tell you. Here is one which I am just now discussing which is certainly going higher, this 1998 budget. Without the balanced budget amendment we are just lost. We are going to have more and more of this and less and less responsibility. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Now, be nice. Be nice. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. And $4.3 trillion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is true. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, if I could answer that, I would be more than happy to. First of all, these are not props. These are real books. These are real unbalanced budgets, 28 of them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is real debt. And let us just understand the basic principle of government. The President proposes, whoever that President may be, but the Congress disposes. 
To be honest with you, Reagan's tax cuts involved 40 percent growth in revenues more than they had predicted. But he had to deal primarily with the House of Representatives where all money bills must originate, controlled by those who did not agree with him, who kept spending. And that is Congress. And even those in the 1980's who did not agree with President Reagan and wanted to spend more in Congress, even they should not be totally blamed for this because this all began basically with the Great Society programs that have been going out of control ever since. We now have almost two-thirds of the budget in entitlement spending. I know President Reagan did not ask for that. Neither did President Bush, and neither, I guess you can say, has President Clinton. I do not even think President Carter asked for that. We did that.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could finish. I would like to finish. I want to make this point because the Senator has raised this. 
We did that. Congress did that. Congress is responsible primarily for this. I admit it could take some Presidential leadership from time to time, too. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. As well as some Presidential vetoes. That is true. I remember when President Ford used the veto some 60 times. He was vastly criticized by his political opponents for what he did. Now, I think there is plenty of blame for everybody involved--Presidents, but mostly Congress. 
See, I am not particularly picking on Presidents today. I am picking on us. The President can propose but we dispose. We are the ones who create these appropriations bills and these 
budget bills. We are the ones who have done the spending. We are the ones who have failed to get entitlement spending under control. We are the ones who have failed to reform Medicaid and Medicare that are going into bankruptcy. All money bills have to originate in the House of Representatives, and during all of the Reagan years the House of Representatives was controlled primarily by those of the liberal persuasion, in both parties I might add. I suspect you could say the Senate was, also, if you added up the liberals versus moderates and conservatives. I think there were more liberals in almost every year of the Reagan administration in both Houses of Congress. 
Frankly, I am not going to blame President Reagan. I am not going to blame President Bush. I am not going to blame President Clinton or President Carter. I might go back to President Johnson and say there were some problems there. That is when all these Great Society programs, all well-intentioned, many of which do good but many of which are out of control today, that is when they originated. I believe the distinguished Senator from West Virginia was here at that time 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. What is the time for both sides? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be glad to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Not really. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Senator was a part of the Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I kind of admired the Senator for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I said I admired the Senator for that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That the Senator came across the line and actually produced 40 percent more revenues than they thought. The problem is we kept spending. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am still proud. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-37-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say this in response. The fact of the matter is, I do not think anybody escapes responsibility. But I know one thing, the Reagan tax cuts resulted in an increase of revenues because there was more opportunity, more investment, more creation of jobs, more people paying taxes. And we actually had more tax revenues come in by 40 percent over what was estimated. 
Where Reagan got into trouble--and I was here--was in the 1981 or 1982 tax bill. In order to get the marginal tax rate reductions that all of us knew would work--and they did, and this administration is benefiting from that to this day because the tax rates were 70 percent at that time. I have to admit they are outrageously high today, but they are not 70 percent. But, in order to get that, they had to agree, the President had to agree to all kinds of congressional spending programs. He wanted the marginal tax rate so bad because he knew that would create a good economy. And it did for 8 solid years, some say longer. And it is really one of the things that is benefiting this economy today, because the tax rates are so much lower than they were before Reagan took office. But then, in the 1986 tax bill, which I voted against, he wanted marginal rates reduced again, and to get that he had to give all kinds of concessions that I think helped trigger the S&L crisis. And it was Congress that did it. It was Members of both parties in Congress that did it. 
I do not think we can avoid the responsibility by just saying, well, the debt went up during the Reagan and Bush years, and now, with the biggest tax increase, it has come down as a total number. But it is still a $107 billion deficit this year, and next year it will be more. It is going up every year for the next 4 years until we are supposed to somehow conjure up 75-percent savings to bring it down in the 2 years after President Clinton leaves office, according to his budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-38-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I can just finish? These books were created by us, these 28 years of deficits. I am saying we have to do something to help us to be responsible. If we do that, the President, whoever that President may be--whether that President is a supply-sider like Reagan, or not--will have to be more responsible. If we do not do it, we are going to have more of the same. 
I have to say it was triggered long before the Great Society programs, because we have had 58 years of unbalanced budgets in the last 66 years. So it happened even before the Great Society. But once the Great Society programs started and this move toward entitlement spending--I know my dear colleague knows that. He has to deal with it every day on the Appropriations Committee, and he deals with it very intelligently. But he is stuck because almost two-thirds of the budget is entitlements. It was not the Presidents who did that; it is us. I have to tell you, the only hope for this country to get these things under control--and I have to say I don't want my dear friend to make another mistake. He is repentant for having voted for the Reagan tax cuts. I don't think he should make another mistake that he is going to have to repent for by 
not voting for the balanced budget amendment. 
I really am still hoping I can get him to change his ways and to come across here and help get this thing done. Because he, above all people in both bodies, knows how really irresponsible the Congress has been through these years.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-39-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. On Mr. Torricelli's time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-40-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will, because I know how much time--how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-41-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will you mind if we do it for just a limited period of time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-42-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-43-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield on that point? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-44-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Where do all money bills have to originate under the Constitution? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-45-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Who was in charge during those years? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-46-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No, in the House I'm talking about, where all money bills originate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-47-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Wait, it wasn't Republicans in charge. We didn't originate those money bills. Or did we? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-48-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-49-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am not saying that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-50-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, 1 more minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-51-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I forgive you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-52-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No. They were. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-53-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That's what I said. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-54-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could the Senator from New Jersey yield additional time, because I have some other speakers coming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-55-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say this, I will allow a vote up or down on the Torricelli amendment. It is the only exception I am going to make. I hope my colleagues on my side will---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-56-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will do it at your request. But let me just say this, the Senator is talking about overall spending. I am talking about revenues that came from the tax cut. We actually had revenues increase 40 percent during that period of time. 
Be that as it may, whether I am wrong and you are right, the fact of the matter is that the Congress, during all of those Reagan years, was controlled by the more liberal persuasion, and all money bills originated in the House, which was controlled by the Democratic Party. Now, allegedly we did have Republican control in the Senate, but if you look at the total number of liberals versus moderate conservatives, the Senate was still liberal during those years, and we were the ones primarily responsible for these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. To lay it at the feet of Reagan, Bush, or Clinton is not right. 
I yield the floor. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
Mr. TORRICELLI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-57-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-58-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-59-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I appreciate the courtesy of the Senator. 
I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate resumes Senate Joint Resolution 1 on Thursday at 11 a.m., Senator Graham of Florida be recognized to offer his amendment regarding public debt; I further ask unanimous consent that there be 90 minutes for debate equally divided in the usual form, and following the expiration or yielding back of time, the Senate proceed to a vote on or in relation to the Graham amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-60-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent that immediately following the vote on the Dorgan amendment today, the Senate resume consideration of Senator Boxer's amendment No. 16 relating to a disaster exemption, and the amendment be limited to 30 minutes of debate equally divided in the usual form, with a vote occurring on or in relation to the Boxer amendment at the expiration or yielding back of any debate time. 
I further ask unanimous consent that on Thursday, immediately following the disposition of the Graham amendment, the Senate resume consideration of Senator Feingold's amendment No. 13 under a 30-minute debate limitation equally divided in the usual form, and following that debate, the Senate resume debate on Senator Feingold's amendment No. 14 under a 40-minute time limitation equally divided, after which both Feingold amendments will be temporarily set aside, and the Senate will then begin 2 hours of debate equally divided on the Kennedy amendment No. 10. 
I finally ask unanimous consent that immediately following the expiration or yielding back of that debate time, the Senate proceed to a vote on or in relation to the Kennedy amendment No. 10, to be followed by 1 minute equally divided for debate, then a vote on or in relation to the Feingold amendment No. 13, to be followed by 1 minute equally divided for debate, and a vote on or in relation to the Feingold amendment No. 14. 
I further ask unanimous consent that following those votes, the Senate begin 2 hours of debate equally divided on the Bumpers amendment No. 12, with a vote occurring on or in relation to the Bumpers amendment at the expiration or yielding back of time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-61-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, Senator Dorgan's substitute, simply put, would add to Senate Joint Resolution 1 language that would exempt Social Security from the requirement that `total outlays for any fiscal year not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year,' unless three-fifths of each House concurs. In essence, the Dorgan substitute's exemption for Social Security is identical to the Reid amendment, which we fully debated yesterday. As such, we are all familiar with the arguments--pro and con--of the effect of removing Social Security from the safeguards of the balanced budget amendment. 
It is my fervent hope this renewed debate over the proposed exemption of the Social Security funds from the requirements of Senate Joint Resolution 1 will convince my colleagues to support the balanced budget amendment. As Justice Brandeis so eloquently wrote in the 1927 case of Whitney versus California, `[i]t is the function of speech to free men from the bondage of irrational fears.' I truly believe that many of my well-meaning colleagues' desires to exempt the Social Security Program is based on unfounded fears. I hope to allay those fears and demonstrate that far from harming Social Security, including the program within unified budgets subject to the amendment, will help to preserve the program. Moreover, ironically, by exempting Social Security from the amendment, the very fears of some of my colleagues may come about because the program will certainly be weakened if we agree to to remove it from the unified budget. 
Before I directly address my colleagues concerns, it is helpful to put this debate in a larger context. Today, the accumulated national debt is nearly $5.4 trillion. Interest payments on this debt consume $250 billion annually, which the Washington Times recently estimated, is more than the combined budgets of the Departments of Commerce, Agriculture, Education, Energy, Justice, Interior, Housing and Urban Development, Labor, State, and Transportation. This means that the share of the debt for every infant born today is about $20,000. 
There is a crying need for sound fiscal reform. Unless we do something, this Nation will continue to have stagnant economic growth with less jobs. Unless we do something, the interest payment on the debt will continue to devour capital that could be otherwise used for investment or Federal programs. Let's not kid ourselves that Washington politicians will remedy this problem; the blunt truth is that no balanced budget deal has worked in the past, that is why we need to amend the Constitution to provide for fiscal sanity. 
Yet opponents of Senate Joint Resolution 1 argue that Social Security should be removed from the protection of the balanced budget amendment. But to do as they request would be a risky gimmick that would harm Social Security and open a loophole in the constitutional amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-62-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to table the amendment and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-63-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-64-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time remains on both sides? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-65-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I listened to my colleague, and I 
know she is sincere. But I have to point out that her amendment, like all of the others, is just another way of making sure the balanced budget amendment has no effect. Let me read it to the people: 
At the end of section 5, add the following: `The provisions of this article may be waived for any fiscal year * * *' 
That means for the whole fiscal year. 
* * * in which there is a declaration made by the President (and a designation by the Congress) that a major disaster or emergency exists, adopted by a majority vote in each House of those present and voting. 
This amendment is simply a permutation of the amendment we voted on today, the Feinstein amendment, which was rejected by 67 Senators just a few hours ago. It would have provided for a waiver of the balanced budget requirement for any fiscal year in which the United States is experiencing a serious economic emergency or major natural disaster. I was one of the 67 Senators who opposed that amendment. But I have to say that I actually prefer that amendment to the one being offered now by my friend from California. For one thing, the spending loophole created by this amendment is even more gaping than the one in the amendment we voted down this evening. As Senator Enzi said, you can `sail an aircraft carrier through the loophole created by the Feinstein amendment.' If so, then you can sail an entire fleet through the loophole this amendment would provide. This would provide for a waiver of the balanced budget requirement in any fiscal year in which Congress and the President declare there is a major disaster or emergency. Unlike earlier amendments, this amendment does not even require that the disaster be a natural disaster or that the emergency be an economic one. That being the case, I wonder what exactly qualifies as a disaster and an emergency under this amendment. 
According to the language of this amendment, a disaster is whatever Congress says it is. I think the worst disaster we are facing are these continual, piled-up unbalanced budgets every year. That is what we are trying to resolve here. Just think of all the things that a creative Congress, bent on deficit spending, could categorize as a disaster or emergency in order to justify more borrowing. Does this amendment mean to say that a drop in SAT scores can be deemed an emergency by Congress and thereby be used as a basis for borrowing to increase educational funding, without having to abide by the strictures of a balanced budget amendment? 
The fact is that, under this amendment, just about anything can be classified a disaster or emergency and serve as a springboard for continued deficit spending. 
For one thing, Mr. President, this is precisely the type of behavior that has put us into the $5.3 trillion of national debt. These unbalanced budgets for the last 28 years demonstrate that. They demonstrate the sad result of such loosely defined exemptions from borrowing or spending limits. For another thing, this amendment does nothing more than preserve a distorted version of the status quo. 
Under this amendment, a waiver of the balanced budget requirement may be obtained by a declaration made by the President and a similar declaration by Congress. But the precise procedure is not clear. Does this mean that the President must first declare an emergency or disaster by Executive order before the Congress acts to ratify or adopt that declaration? Does it then need to be signed by the President? 
Or, if that is not what this amendment means, then perhaps, in effect, it means that Congress must declare an emergency or disaster--by a joint resolution or some other legislative vehicle--adopted by a simple majority vote and then signed by the President. That is what we have been doing when we came up with these 28 straight unbalanced budgets. That is also what we've done in piling up unbalanced budgets in 58 of the last 66 years. That sounds more familiar to me. Indeed, it is familiar to me because it is exactly how we operate today. It is exactly how we have gotten our Nation into a $5.3 trillion national debt and have produced unbalanced budgets for every one of the last 28 years. 
Mr. President, Senate Joint Resolution 1 is a clear, concise amendment carefully drafted over several years with input from Members on both sides of the aisle. I heard earlier in the day one of our colleagues say that this is a Republican amendment. Give me a break. Yes; all 55 Republicans are supporting it. But there are 11 courageous Democrats supporting this. I wonder what Charlie Stenholm thinks about remarks like that, another courageous Democrat from the House who has helped to work on this. And Senator Bryan, Senator Graham, Senator Robb, and so many others who have played a pivotal role in this. 
The three-fifths waiver contained in section 1 strikes an important balance in that it is both sufficient to answer the concerns raised by the Senator's amendment and strong enough to keep the balanced budget amendment meaningful. 
The simple fact is that in actual circumstances of disaster or emergencies, Congress has had little difficulty achieving the supermajority vote required under the balanced budget amendment. I have done some research on the disasters in this Nation during the past 7 years with the help of the Congressional Research Service. I found that in virtually every circumstance, emergency spending bills placed before the House and Senate passed with supermajorities, even when no such requirement was in place. 
For example, in fiscal year 1995 the House and Senate voted on H.R. 1944, which provided $7.2 billion in disaster aid, mostly to help with recovery efforts in Los Angeles from the 1994 earthquake. The bill passed the Senate with a vote of 90 to 7--well over the supermajority requirements of Senate Joint Resolution 1. In the House, the bill passed by 276 votes--also a supermajority. 
The 1994 fiscal year disaster supplemental appropriations bill, H.R. 3759, received similar treatment. That bill, to provide nearly $10 billion in new appropriations for emergency expenses of the Los Angeles earthquake, humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping activities, as well as for Midwest flood assistance, and highway reconstruction from the San Francisco earthquake, passed the House by a vote of 337 to 74--some 75 votes more than would have been necessary under Senate Joint Resolution 1's supermajority requirement. The same measure passed the Senate by a vote of 85 to 10. 
Mr. President, I could go on, but I will summarize by saying that in the past 7 years we have voted many times on emergency disaster funding. I count only two situations where a supermajority was not reached--this despite the fact that no supermajority was needed. The reality is that when there are truly meritorious circumstances the general three-fifths waiver will not stand in the way of what is best for the American people. What will stand in the way is the kind of frivolous expenditures and disregard for the financial well-being of future generations that has plagued our budget process for each of the last 28 years, exemplified by these two stacks of unbalanced budget books. 
Mr. President, we are here to instill in the budget process the fiscal discipline that has been lacking for much of this century. I will say once again that what we need to do is pass a balanced budget amendment free of loopholes and gimmicks. Unless we do, we will never rein in the out-of-control spending habits that have brought us to where we are today. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing the Boxer amendment, and hopefully we will move quickly to pass the balanced budget amendment. 
Mr. President, there was a discussion earlier today on whether or not the Reagan tax cuts enacted by Congress caused the debt we now have or whether it was congressional spending that has run up our debt. I would like to add some more concrete figures to illuminate that discussion. I believe the facts are clear--the Reagan tax cuts increased revenues. But spending increased faster. 
Let me explain further: 
Excessive spending and not tax cuts are responsible for increased deficits during the 1980's. 
Even with tax cuts, Federal tax revenues continue to increase. 
In fact, Federal revenues have continued to grow in every fiscal year after the 1981 tax cuts. The only exception to this was fiscal year 1983, after the recession of 1982. 
This increase in Federal revenues was consistent through the sources of Federal receipts--individual income taxes, corporate income taxes, Social Security insurance taxes and contributions, and other taxes. 
Total receipts went up by the following percentages: 1980-1986: 48.7 percent; 1981-1986: 28.8 percent; 1981-1987: 42.5 percent. The middle percentage from 1981 to 1986 is probably the most representative of the effects of the Reagan tax cuts. 
Further, tax revenues grew faster after the Reagan tax cuts than they have following the Bush and Clinton tax increases. From 1983 to 1989, tax revenue grew at a real rate of 8.7 percent compared to a 5.9-percent growth rate from 1990 to 1996. 
Similarly, President Kennedy knew the growth effects of lower taxes. During the years of the Kennedy tax cuts revenues increased 6.4 percent a year. 
As President Kennedy said in his address to the American people concerning his tax proposal:  
Prosperity is the real way to balance our budget. * * * By lowering tax rates, by increasing jobs and income, we can expand tax revenues and finally bring our budget into balance.. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-66-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
Mrs. BOXER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-67-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-68-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-69-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, in spite of the sincerity of my colleague from California, I think I have said all that needs to be said on this. I yield back the remainder of my time, and I move to table and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Thank you, Mr. President. 
SCHEDULE 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970226</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I announce that today the Senate will begin consideration of Senator Feinstein's amendment to Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. Under a previous agreement, there will be 2 hours of debate on Senator Feinstein's amendment with a vote occurring on or in relation to that amendment at 11 a.m. 
Following the vote, Senator Torricelli will be recognized to offer an amendment relating to capital budgeting. Senator Torricelli's amendment is limited to 3 hours of debate, with a vote expected at the expiration or yielding back of any debate time. 
Following disposition of Senator Torricelli's amendment, the Senate will continue with amendments to the balanced budget amendment. Therefore, all Senators should anticipate additional votes throughout today's session. I thank all of our colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, simply put, Senator Reid's amendment would exempt Social Security from section 1 of the balanced budget amendment, which requires that `total outlays for any fiscal year not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year,' unless three-fifths of each House of Congress concur. Senator Reid, and many of those who favor exemption of Social Security, make rhetorical points that `we shouldn't balance the budget on the backs of the elderly,' and that `unless exempted, the Social Security trust funds will be raided.' Those are direct quotes from those who have spoken on the other side of the aisle. 
The primary paradox of this debate, in a debate full of paradoxes, is the fact that removing Social Security from the protection of the balanced budget amendment will create an overwhelming incentive to do exactly what these critics of the amendment fear, for this would focus budget pressures on the Social Security trust funds that could destroy the viability of the Social Security program itself. It is a folly that has no real relationship to the goals sought, which should be the protection of the Social Security trust funds. What they are doing is a risky gimmick; it's a riverboat gamble. Frankly, it's a real mistake should this amendment be adopted. 
Furthermore--another paradox--exempting the trust funds is simply unwarranted. There already exists an elaborate statutory scheme of firewalls. 
Mr. President, I notice the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts is here. I have a rather extensive statement to make. So what I will do, if he cares to make his statement, I will yield the floor at this time, and then I will finish my statement afterward. I ask unanimous consent I not lose my right to the floor following the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will forego, so the Senator can have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am always happy to work out the schedule for my colleague from Massachusetts and always enjoy hearing my colleague. I think it is good for the acoustics from time to time, and it is also good for all of us who seem to talk at just a normal level. I always enjoy hearing my colleague, and I have enjoyed hearing him on this today, as bad and as dire and stressful as he seems to think things are. But then again, let's go back. 
Simply put, Senator Reid's amendment would exempt Social Security from section 1 of the balanced budget amendment, which requires that total outlays for any fiscal year not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year unless a three-fifths vote of both Houses concurs. Senator Reid, and many of those who favor exemption of Social Security, make the rhetorical points that we should not balance the budget on the backs of the elderly; that the Social Security trust funds will be raided. Poppycock. The fact is, those funds are going to be invested in the very same bonds, no matter whether it is off budget or on. 
The question is, what is the best budgetary approach to take? What is in the best interests of our senior citizens? What is in the best interests of our senior citizens is to understand that everybody in Congress will protect Social Security, and it is better off having it in the unified budget where it has always been protected. Show me a time when it wasn't. It has always been protected, at least in all the time I have been here. Put aside whether it is a riverboat gamble or whether it is a risky gimmick; it is pretty pathetic when you stop and think about it. 
We have heard a lot of talk about how our uses of surpluses would be criminal conduct if done by business people and done in the private sector. But no one is going to prison around here. The fact is that removing Social Security from the protection of the balanced budget amendment would be the worst thing we could do to senior citizens. Talk about a risky gimmick, a riverboat gamble. 
The primary paradox of this debate, as I have said before, in a debate full of paradoxes is the fact that removing Social Security from the protection of the balanced budget amendment would create an overwhelming incentive to do exactly what these critics say they fear. For this would focus budget pressures on the Social Security trust funds that could destroy the very viability of the Social Security program itself. It is a folly that has no real relationship to the goals sought. And that goal should be the protection of the Social Security trust funds. 
Furthermore, another paradox that I will mention is that exempting the trust funds is simply unwarranted. There already exists a statutory scheme of firewalls that protect the trust funds from Presidential and congressional tampering. Nothing in the balanced budget amendment is inconsistent with the statutory firewall scheme that would warrant the firewall protections being declared unconstitutional. The truth is, the passage of Senate Joint Resolution 
1, the balanced budget amendment, will be the best protection to Social Security that we can get. 
Yet another paradox is that the Reid amendment does nothing to respond to the concern that Social Security benefits will be reduced. There is no language in his proposal that would protect Social Security recipients from either further budget cuts or tax increases. In fact, the Reid amendment expressly reserves the right to cut benefits. Get that. It expressly reserves the right to cut benefits. 
Removing Social Security from the protection of the balanced budget amendment would weaken the financial integrity of the Social Security system. Presently, the Social Security program is producing annual surpluses because the huge baby boomer generation is still working and paying FICA taxes into the system. But the surpluses will end no later than the year 2019, when most of the baby boomers retire. 
Moreover, under current projections, Social Security will have exhausted the trust funds and will be running a huge deficit by the year 2029. By the year 2070, Social Security will face a startling $7 trillion annual shortfall. Excluding Social Security ignores this problem and places this system in dire jeopardy. Including Social Security in the budget calculations forces Congress to address the pending crisis in a responsible manner before it becomes too late. 
Let me just explain this in more detail. Let me talk about the Social Security exemption that they are asking for here. This risky gimmick of exempting Social Security would open up a loophole in the amendment and siphon off revenues from the trust funds. Placing the trust funds off budget will harm the Social Security program and make balanced budgets a virtual impossibility. The consequences of this could be very dire indeed. Further, I must emphasize that nothing in the Reid amendment protects recipients from either budget cuts or tax increases. 
Under the Reid amendment, we would have two budgets. One would be based on sound principles of solvency and the other, the Social Security budget, would not be. One budget would be required to be in balance unless a supermajority votes to allow a deficit. The other, the Social Security budget, if they have their way, would be raided and bloated with costly unrelated projects. Anybody who doesn't believe that has not watched this outfit for the last 28 years as we unbalanced the budgets in each of the last 28 years. 
Social Security--don't leave it out. If you leave it out, you are going to have special interest rats eating all the Social Security cheese, whereas if we leave it in, it is protected by the balanced budget amendment. We protect it because we keep a sound, good economy. We all know who these rats are. They are special interests that come in here and buy their way into influence. Taking Social Security off budget will subject funds to Washington special interest scavengers. When you have rats in your house, you need to plug all of the holes. If you do not, they are going to find a way in. 
If we leave Social Security off budget, new and old special interest spending initiatives which cannot survive or make their 
way if they have to compete against other programs, will smell out the scent of Social Security and destroy it just like these high-class rats are destroying the cheese here on this chart. That is what is going to happen to Social Security. We all know it. 
This is a game. The people who are arguing for it, with the exception of a few--certainly, Senator Reid is very sincere about this--the people arguing for this hate the balanced budget amendment. It puts the screws to their spending programs, programs that are eating us alive and mortgaging our children's and our grandchildren's future. They want to defeat this amendment at all costs. And, therefore, they use these phony arguments that taking Social Security off budget is going to protect it when everybody knows it will not. This loophole will not only blow a hole in the balanced budget amendment, but it would also seriously harm Social Security. 
Senator Reid and supporters of the Reid amendment incorrectly contend that including present day Social Security surpluses in the unified budget would `raid' the trust funds. This is a complete misnomer. Here is how it works. The people pay the FICA tax. The Social Security Administration gets it and then sends it to the Treasury. All FICA tax proceeds are commingled with the general funds. The Social Security Administration receives Treasury bonds in recognition of the debt--and those bonds are the greatest redeemable securities in the world, United States bonds. They buy them to be redeemed later. The only way they are going to be redeemed is if we have a sound economy. The only way we are going to have a sound economy is if we live within our means. We clearly are not living within our means. 
These documents are just 28 years. If we put the 58 years of the last 66 years, my goodness, what we have done to America is criminal. That is the where the real criminals are: people who continue to spend. 
The fact is if you are looking for people who have committed wrongs, then look to Congress, and it would be a double wrong if we moved Social Security out the protection of the balanced budget amendment, where it is vulnerable, where it is out there open, where all these special-interest rats can attack it because it is the only thing left to be able to spend and spend and spend. That is exactly what is going to happen here if we do not watch out. The FICA tax, moneys that they get from the bonds of Social Security, are going right now for entitlement spending and discretionary spending. Many of these programs are critical programs. If you take this Social Security off budget in the sense they want to in the Reid amendment, every one of the important social spending programs we have in this country, every one of them is going to be hurt. And in the end Social Security will be hurt because then there will be that much more of a push to go to that nice big second budget there that is not subject to balanced budget requisites and hang all these programs on it. If that happens, mark my word, senior citizens, every one of you are going to be hurt. 
Social Security receipts are by law used to purchase interest-bearing securities, as I have said. Nothing in Senate Joint Resolution 1 would change the Social Security program, but if Social Security were removed from the protection of the Senate Joint Resolution 1 balancing requirements, the trust fund really would be raided. Under the Reid amendment, Social Security receipts would not be designated as `receipts' or `outlays,' as under the balanced budget amendment. Spending Social Security surpluses, therefore, would not have to be offset by other receipts as it must if there is no exemption. This creates a powerful, yet perverse, incentive for Congress to spend the surpluses by redesigning other programs as Social Security. 
That is what they will do to you. You know that. They want it off so they can redesign other programs, call them Social Security and eat up the surpluses and add to the deficit that we are all dying from right now. 
Look, it is the biggest con job I have ever seen. Sincere or not, it is a con job. Let me just say this. This would be real raiding because what constitutes `Social Security' will be expanded, with the present day surpluses funding newly relabeled programs, only they will be called Social Security, and they will just continue to spend just like we have been doing for 58 of the last 66 years. This is only 28 of those unbalanced budgets, the last 28. 
If projects are not immediately redesignated Social Security as I just discussed, thereby consuming accumulated Social Security surpluses, surplus proceeds would be used in the only possible manner that would avoid section 1's prohibition on outlays exceeding receipts, and that is to make debt repayment. 
Normally, this would be wonderful, but, in fact, it creates a dangerous mechanism for the Congress to continue deficit spending if we adopt the Reid amendment. If the surplus is used to pay down the public debt, the total debt level will be reduced, creating a gap between the public debt total and the statutory debt ceiling. As a result, Congress would then be able to increase spending out of Social Security, which is not constrained by a balanced budget 
rule, without immediately bumping into the statutory debt ceiling. This would in essence allow a future Congress to again increase the Nation's debt without facing the balanced budget amendment's required three-fifths vote. Thus, any surplus generated by Social Security and used to pay off the debt would be squandered because the Congress could simply deficit spend under the Social Security exemption until the statutory debt ceiling is reached. This scenario would not be possible if Social Security was not exempted from the balanced budget amendment. 
This secondary loophole constitutes an indirect way of using surplus Social Security receipts. 
So, Mr. President, through one loophole or another, the Reid amendment would drain off the Social Security surpluses in the short term and fail to protect Social Security from tremendous deficits in the long term. Consequently, the Reid amendment not only fails to protect Social Security but is a risky gimmick, a riverboat gamble that will endanger the trust funds. 
The net effect of the loopholes will be the depletion of the trust funds years early. When the balanced budget amendment does take effect in the year 2002, the trust funds will stop growing as all annual surplus funds would be reallocated for programs that have been redesignated Social Security. So instead of growing from 2002 to 2019, the years the trust funds are estimated to stop growing, the system would become stagnant. Exemption of Social Security from the balanced budget amendment will consequently speed up the system's demise. 
If you do not believe that, then you have not watched Congress over the last 28 years. I think there might be some logic to what they say if you really stretched the cord, if you did not have the good old 28 years of unbalanced budgets sitting here, knowing the Congress cannot stop spending unless there is something in the Constitution that says we have to stop; you have to start living within your means; you have to start budgeting; you have to start doing what is right for the American people and especially the future of our children. 
Removing Social Security from the protection of Senate Joint Resolution 1 would make balancing the budget virtually impossible. Based on the gimmickry of the past, the most likely scenario Congress will follow is to pass legislation to fund any number of programs off budget through the Social Security trust funds. The budget could be balanced simply by shifting enough programs into the Social Security trust funds. Where would the senior citizens be then? You would be the ones who are being ripped off. You talk about criminal conduct. 
Congress could simply add to an exempted Social Security enough budget items to make up any deficit from the official budget. Congress could then eliminate the deficit by simply transferring costly programs to the exempted Social Security program. We would have a balanced budget but on paper only. Talk about a risky gimmick. 
FICA taxes have grown significantly over the years. Odds are that the loophole would only accelerate this increase. In fact, all kinds of new `Social Security' taxes would be enacted such as a `Social Security' income tax or a `Social Security' value-added 
tax. As this process continues, the loophole created by this exemption by the Reid amendment would easily swallow both the spending and taxing provisions of the balanced budget amendment. 
The balanced budget amendment will allow the use of Social Security surpluses to fund benefits. 
Some Senators have proffered another argument in support of removing Social Security from the protections of Senate Joint Resolution 1. They allege that the very wording of the balanced budget amendment will not allow the use of surpluses in following years. This is so, they claim, because in succeeding years the spending for benefits from the saved surpluses becomes `outlay' under the constitutional amendment. They created quite a storm when they claimed that a CRS memorandum confirmed this. The only problem with their elaborate theory is that it is wrong. 
Simply put, Mr. President, I must say once more that passage and ratification of the balanced budget amendment will not harm the Social Security Program. In fact, the very passage of Senate Joint Resolution 1 will help stabilize the program. CRS never concluded that the balanced budget amendment will harm Social Security. I believe that the Congressional Research Service memorandum my friend from Nevada was alluding to was, unfortunately, quoted out of context. 
Let me explain. The CRS memorandum, dated February 5, that my colleague was alluding to, did not conclude in any way whatsoever that the balanced budget amendment would harm Social Security. All the CRS memorandum concluded was that, assuming the Social Security surplus survived through to the year 2019, the year Social Security will start running huge annual deficits, this previously accumulated surplus could be used to help pay for future deficits but only if it is offset by revenue or budget cuts. 
Now, despite what my good friend asserted, under the balanced budget amendment, assets of the Federal Treasury could be drawn upon to ensure payments to beneficiaries when the system starts running deficits, annual deficits, that is. 
To clear up any confusion, the Congressional Research Service produced another memorandum dated February 12, 1997, at Senator Domenici's request. This memorandum stated `We,' that is, the Congressional Research Service, `are not concluding that the trust fund surpluses could not be drawn down to pay beneficiaries. The balanced budget amendment would not require that result.' 
So where is the problem? In the near future, when Social Security runs in the red, the Congressional Research Service concluded that under the balanced budget amendment, `The trust funds will be drawn down to cover the Social Security deficit in that year, and the Treasury will have to make good on the securities with whatever moneys it has available.' 
Senator Mack and I also requested that the Congressional Research Service clear up any confusion concerning the use of the February 5 CRS memorandum. CRS stated, in a letter dated February 14, that its memorandum was quoted out of context, and reiterated that under the balanced budget amendment, Federal receipts, including Social Security surpluses, could be used to pay for Social Security benefits. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Furthermore, to nail the point home, the nonpartisan Concord Coalition entered the fray. In a memorandum dated February 18, 1997, the Coalition concluded that the Senate position--that if the balanced budget amendment does not exempt Social Security it will somehow nullify Social Security benefits and prevent payments of benefits to retired baby boomers--is, and I quote, `nonsense.' Let me quote further. 
`What the balanced budget amendment would do is to raise national savings, and thus make Social Security--along with the myriad other claims on tomorrow's economy--more affordable. It would be ironic indeed if concern about funding Social Security, whether real or pretended, turns out to be the issue that sinks the balanced budget amendment.' 
`Let us be clear,' they go on to say, `The balanced budget amendment would in no way alter the status of the Social Security trust funds.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Even more important, yesterday, the very same Concord Coalition revealed a major analysis studying the effects of exempting Social Security from the unified budget. 
This is the Balanced Budget Amendment and Social Security, the Concord Coalition Issue Analysis, 97-1, dated February 24, 1997, as of yesterday. Because of the significance of the analysis, let me quote its major conclusion: 
Trust fund accounting is, and always has been, an arbitrary legislative artifact. Whether a trust fund is in surplus or deficit has little economic relevance. What does matter is the net difference between total Federal revenues and outlays, otherwise known as the unified budget balance. 
Although some Senators and Representatives mistakenly believe that exempting Social Security from the balanced budget amendment would protect boomer retirees, it would, in reality, do nothing to guarantee future Social Security benefits, which would remain mere statutory promises, subject to change by Congress at any time. 
`Instead,' and let me go to this next chart--`Instead,' it says: 
. . . legislators should focus on how the balanced budget amendment without an exemption for Social Security would strengthen the Social Security program and the ability of our Nation to finance retirement benefits not only for the baby boom generation, but for succeeding generations as well. The BBA, the balanced budget amendment, would raise national savings and thus make Social Security--along with Medicare and other claims on tomorrow's economy--more affordable. 
That's a statement of the Concord Coalition, The Balanced Budget Amendment and Social Security--6, in 1997. 
The Concord Coalition is a nonpartisan group made up of Democrats and Republicans, business people and nonbusiness people, people who are concerned about fighting these budget battles in an appropriate way. They do not have any axes to grind except they are leading the fight to try to balance the budget. They are not playing games with the letters from the Congressional Research Service. Which really has occurred in this matter. 
`Right now we find ourselves waist deep in deficit water,' the Concord Coalition goes on to say. 
The purpose of the balanced budget amendment is to require Congress to raise the deck above water and keep it there. The Social Security exemption would defeat this purpose. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Reid amendment will make it harder to balance the budget. And it will harm not only Social Security, but other social programs. 
Furthermore, in another paradox, the exclusion of the present-day surpluses in the budget would make it extraordinarily difficult to balance the budget by the year 2002, the date Senate Joint Resolution 1 mandates balancing. Between now and the year 2002, the surplus is estimated to be over $500 billion; over $500 billion. On this chart we have 10 years of the surplus. You will notice at the bottom the surpluses are worth $1.067 trillion, that is 10 years from now. Mr. President, $1.067 trillion is more than our expenditure this year on Medicare, education, veterans' benefits, the environment, national defense, Social Security, transportation, and infrastructure and national resources combined. In fact, between the year 2002 and 2019 when Social Security outlays will exceed receipts, the trust fund is expected to earn more than $1.9 trillion. 
Where do supporters of the Reid amendment propose to come up with the money necessary to cover this supposed shortfall? This is an annual surplus average of approximately $100 billion each year. According to current budgetary figures, $100 billion per year is more than our current annual expenditure on education, the environment, transportation and infrastructure. Where will we come up with the money if this goes off budget to fund these programs if we exclude Social Security surpluses from the unified budget, and if we are serious about getting to a balanced budget by the year 2002? Show me the money. We are going to have to come up with $1.067 trillion, and it is going to have to come out of these programs that are critical programs, if you follow this amendment that the distinguished Senator from Nevada has filed here. 
Federal programs would have to be cut under his amendment, or taxes raised by that amount to reach the balanced budget goal. If the American people think they are taxed enough now, wait until they have to be taxed to make up part or all of $1.067 trillion in the next 5 years. Keep in mind, the fact of the matter is, Social Security goes from the people to the Social Security Administration, funds go into the Treasury, and then they are invested, the surplus funds are invested in bonds that go back to the Social Security Administration to be redeemed later. They happen to be invested in the most important securities in the world. The only way we are going to be able to pay those bonds is if we have a balanced budget amendment without any gimmickry or games, and especially risky gimmicks at that, that literally help us to have a good enough economy to redeem those bonds. 
If we do not do that, then many of these discretionary spending programs such as Head Start, education, entitlement spending programs such as veterans' pensions and benefits are going to be seriously harmed. It is just that simple. 
Additionally, I have to point out again, not all of President Clinton's budgets have included the Social Security surpluses in their calculations. Doesn't that bother you, that the President says, `Oh, I think we ought to take Social Security out just like Senator Reid does?' Why doesn't he? Why doesn't he take it out? 
Because he knows he cannot even make a claim to getting close to a balanced budget without those surpluses and he also knows he would have to cut most of the expensive social welfare programs that he and most of us up here would like to keep going in the best interests of people. 
Indeed, Secretary Rubin, the Secretary of the Treasury, testified in a recent judiciary hearing, that without including the surpluses in budget calculations, it would be virtually impossible to arrive at a balanced budget. In his recent press conference President Clinton admitted the same when he confessed, and this is what he said, `Neither the Republicans nor I could produce a balanced budget tomorrow that could pass if Social Security funds cannot be counted.' And the reason is because those surpluses are now being used to help balance the budget. But the obligation will be the same. The bonds are still going to be there. It will still be invested in bonds, whether the Reid amendment passes or whether we continue the same system. So, to say if we were in the private sector doing this we would all go to jail is not only a misnomer, or a misstatement, the fact is that we are putting them into the securities that are the only great securities in the world. 
But they are only as great as this country is. And if this country continues to spend into bankruptcy, we will not have the money to redeem those securities. If we do what the distinguished Senator from Nevada wants done here, we will not have the monies. Then you really will harm those trust funds by putting them out there all alone, not subject to balanced budget requisites, not subject to any reforms that need to take place with regard to the whole budget as a whole, but out there, vulnerable to the special interest rats who come along and eat it like cheese. 
The Social Security trust funds consist not of cash but of debt securities, as this chart shows. And they will be, whether this amendment passes, the Reid amendment passes, or not. 
But these debt securities have to be paid back. 
How do you pay them back if you don't get the country's spending under control? If you look at reality--that is these 28 budgets that have been unbalanced since 1968--how are we going to get spending under control so we can pay back those bonds and redeem those bonds and pay back that money to the Social Security fund? 
Part of the problem in addressing the Social Security issue in this debate results from the confusing terminology used by our opponents. They complain that the present trust fund surplus will be `raided' if we have a unitary budget that includes Social Security. But the fact is the Social Security trust funds are not a giant wallet of $100 bills or $1,000 bills or gold, for that matter. The FICA tax receipts come from the people to the Social Security Administration, and the bonds are given to the surplus, which are used to balance the budget today, and it will be the same system if the Reid amendment is adopted. The only difference is there is no balanced budget amendment. That is the only difference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Social Security FICA tax receipts are used to pay benefits, and any excess is, by law, loaned to the Treasury to pay other Federal obligations in exchange for Treasury bonds. These bonds are interest-bearing bonds. That is all. They are evidence of the debt the Federal Government owes itself. 
The most important question for future retirees is whether the Federal Government will be able to pay off its debts. The only way they will be redeemed in the future is if a budget is balanced and we have enough revenue to redeem the securities. 
Mr. President, the best protection for Social Security is passing and ratifying Senate Joint Resolution 1. This would create the needed discipline to balance the budget. Payments on debt interest would be substantially reduced. The chance for Government default would be significantly diminished. The economy will grow at a brisker pace, repayment of Social Security obligations will be more secure, and we will end this process of never-ending mounting national debts, which have been continuing since--well, 58 of the last 66 years, but 28 of the last 28 years. 
As I stated, the Social Security system is facing a future crisis. By the year 2029, the system will be bankrupt. We will put that chart up and you can see, when you get up to 2029, the system is bankrupt and we go into very serious deficit. Sadly, the Social Security trust fund's board of trustees estimates that by the year 2070, Social Security will be facing a $7 trillion annual deficit. In 1996 dollars, that amounts to more than $1 trillion in deficits each year. Our current total annual Federal budget is only $1.5 trillion. Where will we get the revenue to redeem the Social Security securities, then, unless we plan and budget for it as required under our balanced budget amendment? 
The trust fund securities are only a claim on the General Treasury funds with no capital to back up that claim. If the country ever defaults on its debts, the Social Security trust funds will suffer. For this reason alone, Social Security recipients, both current and future and those who are concerned about them, 
should strongly support the balanced budget amendment--for that reason alone. 
The biggest threat to Social Security, therefore, is our growing debt and concomitant interest payments. The Government's use of capital to fund debt slows productivity and income growth and, thereby, lessens the pool of revenues available to fund Social Security. The real way to protect Social Security benefits is to pass Senate Joint Resolution 1. The proposal to exempt Social Security will not only destroy the balanced budget amendment, or any plan to balance the budget, but in all probability will also pose a real risk to the Social Security system. 
Section 13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 does not require that Social Security be placed `off budget.' Supporters of exempting Social Security argue that section 13301 of the 1990 Budget Enforcement Act literally exempts Social Security trust funds from the President's and the Congress' budget calculations. They claim that the balanced budget amendment would change this because it requires a unified budget. 
These critics of the balanced budget amendment are wrong on both counts. Under section 13301(a) of the Budget Enforcement Act, the receipts and outlays of the Social Security trust funds are, indeed, not counted in both the President's and Congress' budgets, but only for certain specific purposes. The primary purpose for this exclusion was to exempt Social Security from sequestration by the President under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings procedures and from the act's pay-as-you-go requirement. 
In addition, as added protection, sections 13302 and 13303 of the Budget Enforcement Act also created firewall point of order protections for Social Security trust funds in both the House and the Senate. All this is made clear by the conference report accompanying the 1990 act. 
Indeed, the 1990 Budget Enforcement Act does not preclude both Congress and the President from formulating a unitary budget that includes Social Security trust funds for national fiscal purposes. Surely the opponents of the balanced budget amendment are not suggesting that the President of the United States and the Congress have been flouting the law when they include the Social Security trust funds in their respective budget calculations. Look, we all know that Social Security will need reform if it is to continue to be viable over the long haul. This chart shows that. There is no way that we can continue to go the way we are going without reforming Social Security. 
We all know that, but the problem is not the inclusion of Social Security trust funds in the budget. The problem is that at the time of the retirement of baby boomers, there will not be enough FICA taxes to fund their retirement. Moreover, the surplus Social Security taxes being collected today will not cover the future cost of the system. Most of the current Social Security taxes are used to cover benefit payments to present retirees. 
Outlays will exceed receipts of the system in about the year 2019, maybe even before. The guarantee of future benefits, therefore, will depend on the Federal Government's future ability to pay benefits. 
Not including Social Security in the budget would harm the 
program. Congress could redesignate programs as part of the exempted Social Security system. The distinguished Senator from Nevada yesterday said Social Security is statutorily defined. Let's understand what that means. When something is statutorily defined, a subsequent statute can change the definition of it, and that only takes a simple majority in both Houses of Congress to do. Anybody who doesn't understand that doesn't understand the legislative process. 
Let me tell you, if you don't include Social Security in the budget, the program is going to be harmed. Congress could rename anything `Social Security,' as they have done before, by a simple majority vote. If they just name it Social Security and use the FICA taxes to fund these programs, then you will really see the program raided. 
The problem that the Reid amendment raises in reality is not with the balanced budget amendment, but with the problems that the Social Security Program faces. We need to fix that, and adopting the balanced budget amendment and getting rid of these unbalanced budgets is a heck of a good start. 
The balanced budget amendment does not overturn existing statutory protections for Social Security. In a related argument that seeks to justify the exemption, some have argued the balanced budget amendment will override the existing statutory protections for Social Security. Contrary to this assertion, it is clear that the current statutory protections for Social Security would not be eliminated by the amendment. Of course, the supremacy clause of the Constitution provides that any legislation contrary to a constitutional provision must fail. As the great Chief Justice John Marshall held in the landmark 1803 decision of Marbury versus Madison: An act of the legislature repugnant to the Constitution is void.' 
But what critics fail to mention is that there is absolutely nothing in the balanced budget constitutional amendment that is inconsistent with current statutory schemes. The Social Security statutory protections are not legislative acts `repugnant to the Constitution' as amended by Senate Joint Resolution 1. Congress, under the balanced budget amendment, can also create statutory protections for the Social Security Program. 
Further, the Reid amendment has absolutely no protection against Social Security benefit cuts. The plain fact is that the best thing we can do for Social Security, the best thing we can do for retirees, and the best thing we can do for all Americans is to enact the balanced budget amendment without loopholes, without exemptions, and bring fiscal sanity and a little common sense back to Government. 
Opponents of Senate Joint Resolution 1 who argue for a Social Security exemption contend that the balanced budget amendment will not in reality produce a balanced budget because gross debt will still rise. This is clever but it is misleading. 
Mr. President, the balanced budget amendment does indeed require a balanced budget. Outlays must not exceed receipts under section 1 of Senate Joint Resolution 1. But it is also true that gross debt may still increase even if the budget is balanced. That is because the Government's exchange of securities for incoming FICA taxes is counted as gross debt. It is merely an accounting or bookkeeping notation of what one agency of Government owes another agency. It is analogous to a corporation buying back its own stock or debentures. Such stock and bonds are considered retired obligations that once paid have no economic or fiscal significance. Thus if we enact the balanced budget amendment the debt the United States owes to everyone but itself will stop growing. 
This is very different from obligations owed by the Federal Government to the public. This type of debt--termed net debt or debt held by the public--is legally enforceable and is what is economically significant. If net debt zooms--because of interest payments of debt--which last year amounted to more than $250 billion--budget deficits balloon with all the dire economic consequences. To assure that budgets will be balanced unless extraordinary situations arise, debt held by the public cannot be increased unless three-fifths of the whole number of each House concur. 
That net debt is considered to be of far greater economic significance than gross debt is a widely held truism among economists. Indeed, in the study `Analytical Perspectives: Budget of the U.S. Government Fiscal Year 1998,' the Clinton administration no less concludes that net debt or `borrowing from the public, whether by the Treasury or by some other Federal agency, has a significant impact on the economy.' 
On the other hand, the study also maintains that gross debt or debt issued to Government accounts `does not have any of the economic effects of borrowing from the public. It is merely an internal transaction between two accounts, both within the Government itself.' 
Now, it is true that the balanced budget amendment does not by itself reduce the $5.3 trillion national debt. But what it does do is straighten out our national fiscal house and make it orderly. Passage of Senate Joint Resolution 1 will increase economic growth and allow us to run surpluses. With this, our national debt may be decreased if Congress desires to do so in the interest of national economic stability and prosperity. Without Senate Joint Resolution 1, this would be and will be an impossibility. 
The Reid amendment, on the other hand, adds nothing to protect the trust funds from accumulating debt. In fact, by creating this loophole, this risky gimmick, this riverboat gamble, the Reid amendment may cause the trust fund to dry up sooner and run deeper deficits. Thus, the Reid amendment is a risky gimmick that endangers Social Security. 
The Reid amendment is confusing and its application is going to harm Social Security. Let me just say, finally, Mr. President, 
the Reid amendment should be rejected because it is confusing. As I have said, its application may harm the Social Security Program, the very thing the Reid amendment claims to protect. The amendment exempts the Social Security trust funds from the balancing requirement, but it also includes the proviso `as and if modified to preserve the solvency of the Funds.' 
Explicitly exempting Social Security by placing it in the Constitution may `constitutionalize' the program in perpetuity unless a subsequent constitutional amendment provides for the program to be altered or abolished. As a result of the Reid amendment, do minor technical changes to Social Security every year require amendments to the Constitution? The constitutional amendment process was designed by the Framers to be lengthy, to prevent specious changes to the Constitution. If we must go through this time-consuming process for every change to Social Security because we have written specifically a statutory scheme into the Constitution, a statutory program into the Constitution --even minor technical alterations--I fear major needed reforms to Social Security will come far too late if at all. 
Similarly, does the proviso language mandate the solvency of the Social Security system, or does that language merely allow the Congress to take such steps? If the answer is that Congress must take measures to assure solvency, does this require mandated tax increases or benefit cuts? 
Frankly, this proviso language strands us in unchartered territory. We do not know exactly how this language is going to be interpreted. Once it becomes part of the Constitution, assuming this amendment would pass, this language could also very well mean that the scope of Social Security as a constitutional provision could be amended by statute. For instance, in 1965, Social Security was broadened by a statue to include hospital insurance. That is, part A of Medicare. My question is this: If under the Reid amendment Social Security can be variously modified by statute, would we be constitutionalizing a massive loophole through which we could constitutionally enforce spending on any program redesignated as `Social Security?' If, on the other hand, we can only modify Social Security by constitutional amendment, will that not require a two-thirds Senate vote, approval of 37 States, and a 7-year delay to enact even the most minor changes? 
All of this demonstrates the danger that the Reid amendment as a whole creates--that Congress ought to be responsible and not amend the Constitution to include specific statutory programs like Social Security. A constitutional amendment should be timeless and reflect a broad consensus and not make narrow policy decisions. We should not place technical language or overly complicated mechanisms in the Constitution and undercut the simplicity and universality of the balanced budget amendment. Explicitly exempting Social Security may constitutionalize the program in perpetuity unless a subsequent amendment provides for the program to be altered or abolished. It would also invite, in the opinion of many, gaming, and I can tell you it will invite gaming and endless litigation as the terms of the program are altered. 
Former Assistant and Acting Attorney General Stuart Gerson and attorney Alan Morrison, on different sides of the fence, both have 
extensive experience litigating constitutional issues and testified in a Judiciary Committee hearing on Senate Joint Resolution 1. Although the two disagree about the wisdom of the balanced budget amendment, they agree that exempting Social Security is a bad idea, and both strongly oppose exempting Social Security from the balanced budget amendment. Stuart Gerson is for the balanced budget amendment. Alan Morrison was against. But both agree Social Security should not be exempted. Nothing should be. It ought be in the unified budget, to approach it intelligently. 
According to Alan Morrison, a liberal, against the balanced budget amendment, a litigator with Public Citizen who opposes the balanced budget amendment and testified for the minority:  
Various proposals have been floated to exclude Social Security from the amendment, presumably as a means of attracting additional votes. Given the size of Social Security, to allow it to run at a deficit would undermine the whole concept of a balanced budget. Moreover, there is no definition of Social Security in the Constitution and it would be extremely unwise and productive of litigation and political maneuvering to try to write one. If there is to be a balanced budget constitutional amendment, there should be no exceptions. 
That is pretty important testimony given before the Judiciary Committee by a person who, although he hates the balanced budget amendment and does not want it as a liberal, nevertheless believes it would be tremendously detrimental to the Constitution if we put a statutory scheme in the Constitution. 
In conclusion, Mr. President, the biggest threat to Social Security is our growing debt and concomitant interest payments. Debt-related inflation hits hardest on those on fixed incomes, and the Government's use of capital to fund debt slows productivity and income growth and siphons off needed money for worthwhile programs. The way to protect Social Security benefits is to pass Senate Joint Resolution 1, get rid of the year after year of unbalanced budgets, get us living within our means. The proposal to exempt Social Security will not only destroy the balanced budget amendment, but in all probability would also cause the Social Security trust funds to run out of money sooner than they would have without an exemption, perhaps mortally wounding the very program the Reid amendment was designed to protect. That would be the paradox indeed. 
Let me just finally conclude, anyone who believes Social Security will not be harmed are simply wrong. 
The Reid amendment is a risky gimmick. The Reid amendment is a gamble. Special interest scavengers will sniff out Social Security. Before long, we will be using Social Security to fund all sorts of perks like the S.S. Social Security battleship. If we can put that chart up to make the point. We can see it happening. Now, that is bizarre but not nearly as bizarre as what has been done for 28 years, with all these unbalanced budgets. There is nothing in the Reid amendment that protects Social Security. Indeed, the Reid amendment threatens Social Security. It is a risk, it is a gamble, and it should be defeated. 
I reserve the remainder of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me first suggest the absence of a quorum with the time to be divided equally. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum and ask unanimous consent that the time be divided equally. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time does the Senator need? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield such time as the Senator needs. 
I yield 15 minutes to the distinguished Senator from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 8 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask how much time is remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, it is my fervent hope that during the debate over the proposed exemption of the Social Security funds from the requirements of Senate Joint Resolution 1, I have convinced my colleagues to support the balanced budget amendment. As Justice Brandeis so eloquently wrote in the 1927 case of Whitney versus California, `It is the function of speech to free men from the bondage of irrational fears.' 
I truly believe that many of my well-meaning colleagues' desires to exempt the Social Security Program is based on unfounded fears. 
Look, if we take the largest item in the Federal budget and put it outside of balanced budget purview, we are left with no mechanism at all for its protection. Social Security will be out there all alone, with no protections whatsoever. Whereas, if we keep a unified budget and keep everything in it, Social Security will be protected because everybody in the Congress wants to protect it, and it can compete better than any other Federal program for the available funds. Frankly, I know it would get them. Every one of us would vote for Social Security, for its protection. 
But if you agree to the risky gimmick of putting Social Security outside the budget, and everything else is subject to balanced budget amendment requirements but Social Security, then those who want to destroy Social Security or those who want to continue to spend for social programs, all they have to do is statutorily--because that is all Social Security is, a myriad of statutes--statutorily add anything they want to to Social Security and go on spending forever more without any budgetary restraint at all. The more provisions they add to the total Social Security bill outside the purview of the budget, the more Social Security will be watered down, diminished, and eaten away. That is the difference here. 
We have a unified budget, and with a balanced budget amendment that unified budget is going to have to be balanced by the year 2002 or we are going to have to stand up and vote not to balance it. There is no reason in the world to put the largest item in the budget outside of the purview of the balanced budget amendment, since every dime that comes in from the FICA funds will be invested in Federal Government securities anyway. Whether we keep it in budget or put it out on its own without any budgetary restraints, those surpluses are going to go into Federal Government bonds, and the only way we can pay those bonds off, the absolute, only way, is if we pass this balanced budget amendment intact without excluding any program from its purview. 
Last but not least, in this limited time, if you write a statute into the amendment, that means you make it constitutional. Can you change Social Security to reform it or make it better or help people or increase funds without a constitutional amendment? Unfortunately, I am not sure we can answer that today. It might well be the case that it would take a constitutional amendment to do it. If that is so, that would be a tragedy. 
I do not think this amendment is well thought through. I hope our colleagues will not support it. Constitutionally, it is the wrong thing to do. Most important, even if you do what the distinguished Senator from Nevada sincerely wants to do here, you are not protecting Social Security because you cannot protect it outside of the budget from suspect spending practices. It is free floating without any of the budgetary restraints that the balanced budget amendment would put on the whole unified budget. 
Let us do what budget people really know we have to do, and that is live within the constraints of the unified budget, keep Social Security in there where it will compete better than any other program, and, in the end, I think our country will be so much better off because we will be able to balance the budget, reduce interest rates, and make this country really run properly. 
It is always helpful to put this debate in a larger context. Today, the accumulated national debt is nearly $5.4 trillion. Interest payments on this debt consumes $250 billion annually, which the Washington Times recently estimated, is more than the combined budgets of the Departments of Commerce, Agriculture, Education, Energy, Justice, Interior, Housing and Urban Development, Labor, State, and Transportation. This means that the share of the debt for every infant born today is about $20,000. 
There is a crying need for sound fiscal reform. Unless we do something, this Nation will continue to have stagnant economic growth with less jobs. Unless we do something, the interest payment on the debt will continue to devour capital that could be otherwise used for investment or Federal programs. Let's not kid ourselves that Washington politicians will remedy this problem; the blunt truth is that no balanced budget deal has worked in the past, that is why we need to amend the Constitution to provide for fiscal sanity. 
Yet, opponents of Senate Joint Resolution 1 argue that Social Security should be removed from the protection of the balanced budget amendment. But to do so as they request would be a risky gimmick that would harm Social Security and open a loophole in the constitutional amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to table and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I announce today that the Senate will resume consideration of Senator Reid's amendment to Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. Debate is expected throughout the day on this amendment, with the vote occurring on or in relation to the Reid amendment at 6 p.m. today. 
By previous agreement, at 2:10 p.m. today, the Senate will begin 5 minutes of closing remarks, followed by a rollcall vote on adoption of House Joint Resolution 36, the resolution regarding U.N. population control. 
On Wednesday, the 26th, the Senate will debate Senator Feinstein's amendment from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Following the vote at 11 a.m. on or in relation to the Feinstein amendment, Senator Torricelli will be recognized to offer an amendment relating to capital budgeting. Senator Torricelli's amendment is limited to 3 hours of debate. 
I also remind Senators that on Thursday, February 27, at 10 a.m., there will be a joint meeting of Congress for an address by His Excellency Eduardo Frei, President of Chile. Members are asked to meet in the Senate Chamber at 9:40 a.m. to proceed as a group to the joint meeting. 
I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, this is an important amendment, but it is not as important as the proponents think. The fact of the matter is that Social Security is much better protected within the purview of the unified budget than it will be out there standing all by itself where they can add anything to it, or take anything away from it that they want to, and where it will become a spending loophole device that I think will be to the detriment of the senior citizens. 
To say that the trust funds are raided is the biggest charade I have heard in all my time in the Senate. First of all, when the FICA funds come in, they are immediately invested into U.S. Government bonds, the best securities anywhere in the world. Those bonds are kept. There is no great big trust fund or a big place where they keep all this money. They are bonds due and owing by the American people some time in the future. The only way we are going to be able to pay back those bonds is if we get spending under control and get our economy under control. The only way we are going to do that, after looking at 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets--those 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets are represented by these actual unbalanced budgets, since 1969--the only way we are going to do that is to pass a balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
Some say, well, we want another type of an amendment. The fact is that this is a bipartisan amendment that has been put together over 21 years. I know because I have participated in every word of it with my bipartisan colleagues in the House and Senate, on the Democratic side as well as the Republican side. This is the only amendment that has a chance of passage, the only thing that actually will give a real sense of protection and actual protection to those people who are on Social Security now. 
For people to come on this floor and say, They are raiding the trust funds, because literally they are exchanging bonds for the funds and helping to balance the budget with whatever surplus exists now, is not only a charade; it is absolutely false. I get a little tired of people saying they are raiding the trust funds, not treating the trust funds right. The fact is, if you take Social Security out of the purview of the 
balanced budget amendment--if this amendment passed and we take it outside the purview of the balanced budget amendment, first of all, this amendment won't do what they say it will do. It is very poorly drafted. Even if it does do what they say it would do--and I will, just for the sake of discussion this morning, argue within that context, that it will do what they say it will--and you take Social Security out of the budget, the surpluses that will occur between now and 2008 will be invested in Federal Government bonds, which is exactly what they are doing now. The only difference is that the moneys they have then may be used for social spending programs other than Social Security, and that means another ability to spend more without making the reforms that have to be made in programs like Medicaid, Medicare, and so many others in our society, which are running out of control today. And the people who are going to be hurt the most are going to be those people who are counting on the Social Security funds being there some day, because we will not get Federal spending under control without this balanced budget amendment. We will continue to have these tremendous stacks of unbalanced budgets that will go all the way to the ceiling. 
When people come to the floor and say, `Let's just have the will to do it'--and I have heard it from opponents of the balanced budget amendment now for 21 years of unbalanced budgets--they ought to look at this stack and realize it is going up every year, and there is no will to do it. It is too easy to spend, too easy to spend the taxpayers' money. It is too easy to just act irresponsibly. Putting Social Security outside of the purview of the unified budget and outside the purview of this balanced budget amendment would be one of the most reckless things we could do. It would be the most risky gimmick you could have. I think it is not only a risky gimmick, it would be a riverboat gamble, where you are almost guaranteed to lose. Social Security would become a football to be kicked back and forth by those who want to play games with the budget, because there would be no fiscal discipline involved in that particular issue. They want to take the largest item in the budget out of the unified budget. 
Now, to show how ridiculous it is to take that riverboat gamble, put it out there where it is all by itself, where it could be attacked by anybody, instead of keeping it within the budget, I ask this one thing. Why do that when Social Security is the one item in the whole budget that everybody, every person sitting in the Congress today, be they Republican or Democrat, would support, would help, would keep viable? It is the largest item in the budget. I have to tell you that it can compete better than any other single budgetary issue. So where is the issue? Where is the meat here? 
The fact is that those who are bringing these amendments to the floor, by and large--and I am not talking about the distinguished Senator from Nevada; he is very sincere in this amendment, and he believes this. I don't know why he believes this, if you look at the facts of the 28 years, and at what all of us have done throughout the years. But most of the others who are bringing this to the floor and arguing for this are people who would not want a balanced budget constitutional amendment in the Constitution for any reason, or for a variety of reasons, some very sincere and some because they want to spend and tax more with ease, and they want to do it with voice votes so they don't have to come here and stand up and let 
people know how they voted. I have to tell you, they want to defeat the balanced budget amendment. Now, that might be all right to have this out there if it were a better system, but it would not be. You would be exposing Social Security to direct attack and to direct manipulation over and over. 
Madam President, I will have more to say in a few minutes on this. I notice the distinguished Senator from Michigan is here. He came to speak. 
I yield such time as he needs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I suggest the absence of a quorum, with the time equally charged. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as always, I enjoyed the distinguished senior Senator from West Virginia. He is always colorful. He always uses a great number of metaphors that are very interesting. He is intelligent. He is competent. And he is formidable, one of the most formidable Senators in history. So it is very difficult for the Senator from Utah to be as formidable. But I can say this. If we are going to talk about Ezekiel and bones, dry bones, here is 28 years of it, 28 years of dry bones lying over everywhere with no sinews and no possibility of any sinews, in other words, resurrection, unless we do something to countermand this philosophy of taxing and spending the American people blind. 
My friend talks about Hannibal crossing the Alps. If my historical background is correct, the discussion of Hannibal in the Alps was by Livy, who wrote the `History of Rome'. I think it was a little unfair to bring in 37 elephants. Actually, as I recall the estimate was at least 100 donkeys who, if Hannibal was alive today, would probably, as the good Democrat that he was, be trampling all over the balanced budget amendment with all of those donkeys--not elephants. I think the elephants would be nudging him forward to try to do what is right. 
What the distinguished Senator from West Virginia seems to be saying to me, and to the world at large, in his comments here today is that the estimates that we use in the budget system today are faulty. They have never been right. He does not take into account the fact that Congress has continually changed the rules in the bills and the spending practices throughout each year. And that is one of the reasons why the estimates have not been even close to being right in most cases. 
Therefore, he seems to be making this syllogism. We use faulty estimates now. It appears to him that we will not be able to prevent the use of faulty estimates if the balanced budget amendment is passed. Therefore, rather than do something that might put some discipline into the budgetary process, let us retain the current faulty system. 
His amendment does not address the problem he is raising. So the distinguished Senator seems to be arguing for the current unsatisfactory system, no change whatsoever. I have to add, these unbalanced budgets are higher than I am, I guess, or pretty close to it. The Senator argues for no change of the continuation of unbalanced budget after unbalanced budget, because there will not be any incentives to get the estimates right, will not be any incentives to stop Congress from continuing to spend and raise new spending programs every year that we are in this budget process. The balanced budget amendment would give us incentives to get things right. 
If there is a charade, if there is a joke, if there is a dodge, it is during each of these 28 years. I have been here 21 of them, and I am ashamed to say that every one of my 21 years in the Senate, we have had an unbalanced budget. The reason is because we do not have a good system, we do not have a constitutional mandate to force us to do what is right. 
That is what this amendment will do. 
Now, my friend says Americans do not trust their politicians. I think that is right. I think his points are well taken. The fact of the matter is, the reason they do not trust us is because they have seen 28 straight years of this, and for 58 of the last 66 years, we have had these kinds of unbalanced budgets. 
Now, is that a good argument for keeping the status quo, for continuing what we are doing and mortgaging the future of our children? I do not think so. I do not know anybody who looks at it carefully who would think so. 
There are hoptoads all over the current system, whatever a hoptoad is, but they are all over the current system. The system is not working. The reason it is not working is because there is no incentive to make it work other than to tax and to spend more. You get more credit for spending around here than you do for standing up and saying, `Hey, where will the money come from?' Some of my colleagues of the more liberal persuasion have been here longer than I have, and I have yet to hear some of them say, `Where do we get the money for that program?' No, they go ahead and spend away our children's future, spend away our grandchildren's future. Do not worry, have a good time now and let them pay for it. 
We have reached a point where every living man, woman, and child in this country owes about $20,000 as their share of the national debt right now, as we stand here. Yet, some are arguing for the status quo, a system that is not working, a system that will go on as a broken system, a system where there is no discipline. We have tried five different statutory plans since 1978 and none of them have worked. 
Now, I have to say if it was up to my friend from West Virginia and myself, I think we could get together.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. On your time, I am happy to yield to the Senator, and if you need extra time, I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Did I say that? I am implying that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am strongly suspicious that the Senate may prevail over the balanced budget amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I acknowledge that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The same thing that is meant in every constitutional amendment since the Civil War. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me answer the question. 
In addition, and I will take back my time, in addition to the fact that we have no strong incentives under the current system to stay within either the estimates or the budget that is under the current system, Congress often compounds the problems inherent in using estimates by making changes in policy that the estimates did not foresee. There is no disincentive under the current system for doing this without great concern about the effect on compliance with the budget plan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could finish. I want to answer your question, and it will take me a second because it is an interesting question, and then I will be happy to yield. 
Under Senate Joint Resolution 1, Congress will, by necessity, need to be more careful about its decisions through the year in order to comply with the constitutional directive of the other sections. For instance, section 6 simply recognizes that to be reasonable and workable, we will need to rely on estimates throughout the fiscal year in complying with the balanced budget amendment rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me finish. If there is a minor or negligible drop below balance at the end of the year, and we find out that has occurred after the fiscal year has ended, we can avoid constitutional problems for minor deviations. However, we still have an incentive to get the budget back in line because section 2's debt ceiling provision does not rely on estimates. 
That is where the distinguished Senator is missing the point of this amendment. Section 2 does not rely on estimates. It requires that we not increase the debt without a three-fifths vote, 
and to avoid hitting the debt ceiling we have every incentive to stay at or above balance and to ensure that small deviations are actually made up. 
All of this is substantially better than the current system, which is not working. The current system is where we make our estimates and then we immediately forget about them and pass whatever legislation we want to, and that is why they are always out of balance. It has given us 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets, and deficits for 58 of the last 66 years--enough to drive anybody who is fiscally responsible wild. 
To argue that this current way of doing things is better than having fiscal discipline written into the Constitution, I think completely misses the point. Senate Joint Resolution 1 is a necessary step to give us the incentives to do something about this mess of unbalanced budgets that are going to continue unless we have something like this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will answer the Senator. First, how much time remains on both sides? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right. I thank the Chair. The term `by law,' used in the Senate Joint Resolution 1, sections 1 and 2 is used there in order to make clear that Congress cannot imbalance the budget or raise the debt limit by an internal rule. Why? The President must sign a bill for it to become a `law.' The President is not involved in the adoption of rules in the Senate or House. 
The term `by appropriate legislation' is used in Senate Joint Resolution 1, section 6, because that is the standard term used in all other enforcement clauses in the Constitution since the Civil War. So we have followed that which has been used. And I believe it will be interpreted similarly to the word `law.' But be that as it may, it has not been a problem since the Civil War, and I don't believe it will be a problem now. 
Specifically, `appropriate legislation' means that it satisfies article 1, passed by both Houses and is signed by the President. But the language actually mirrors all enforcement clauses in the Constitution since the Civil War. So I don't quite see the problem that the distinguished Senator from West Virginia does, and I don't think anybody else will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Does the Senator need more time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I don't want to spend a lot of time on this because I don't think that is a good point. Ever since the Civil War, the 13th, 14th, 15th, 19th, 24th, and 26th amendments have used the language `appropriate legislation,' which, under the Chadha decision of the Supreme Court, is interpreted as a law as signed by the President. It has to be submitted to the President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Not that I know of. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Under the Supreme Court decision in Chadha, appropriate legislation has to go to the President and become a law. I think it is a moot point, to be honest with you. Frankly, we are using the language of the Constitution itself, and appropriately so, in my opinion. 
I notice the distinguished Senator from Wyoming is here. He would like to speak for 8 minutes. I yield to him, and then I would like to have the time back so I can finish my statement. I 
want to respond to my dear colleague's thoughtful comments. They are intelligent comments, and I always enjoy listening to him as one of the true experts in this body. I mean every word I am saying, as well. I don't agree with him on much of what he is saying here today, but so what. The fact is, I respect him. 
I yield 8 minutes to the Senator from Wyoming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the new counsel on my committee staff, Brian Jones, be granted floor privileges for the remainder of the day on the balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am going to try to reserve some time out of my time for the Senator from West Virginia to make closing remarks here today. If that is all right, I will reserve some time for the distinguished Senator from West Virginia to make closing remarks out of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time would the distinguished Senator like to have to close out at the end? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me reserve 5 minutes for the distinguished Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague. I have great respect for him, as I have said. I have been around here a long time, and I have seen Senators come and go. This Senator is one of the greatest of all time, and I have respect for him. I do not agree with him here today, but I do have respect for him. And I want his amendment to be given every consideration. 
Mr. President, today we begin our third week of debate on the balanced budget amendment. Our national budget as of right now is going to $5.4 trillion. That is about $20,000 for every man, woman, and child in America. 
Believe me, when we are talking about the debt we are placing on the backs of our children and grandchildren, we are truly playing with fire, and we have been getting burned for 28 years, the 28 years represented by these unbalanced budgets--these stacks are obscene, and yet that is what we face ad infinitum if we do not have this balanced budget amendment. These stacks will reach all the way to the ceiling of this Chamber. And it is time to do something. We have been getting burned for 28 years now--actually, 58 of the last 66 years. That is what those two towers of debt mean. There is only one way to scale this tower of debt and only one way we will ever reach and remain at a balanced budget. There is only one cure that I can think of for this addiction that we have for debt. That is this balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
Everybody knows it is a bipartisan amendment. Everybody knows it has been worked out with Democrats and Republicans. Everybody knows it is the only one that has a chance of passage. Everybody knows we have to keep amendments off or we lose Senators here or Senators there. Everybody knows it is the best possible language we can arrive at and still have it be bipartisan. 
There are Senators over here who want to have a three-fifths vote to increase taxes. We cannot do that and have it bipartisan, even though the Senator from Utah may have some sympathy for that attitude. We have Senators on the other side who wish that we did not have a constitutional majority to raise taxes, and that certainly they would like us not to have a three-fifths majority to increase the debt. But in order to have a bipartisan amendment and satisfy people on this side of the aisle--and, by the way, people on the other side--we have come to this conclusion. So anybody who says that they have to have their one little amendment or they cannot vote for this, they are for balanced budgets and they are for a balanced budget amendment but they cannot vote for this, they may be sincere, but, in most cases, they are obfuscating. The fact is, they knew at the beginning of this debate if we cannot pass this amendment as it is, there will never be a balanced budget amendment and there will never be, at least I do not think there 
will ever be, a fiscal mechanism put into the Constitution that will require us to at least do what is right here. 
This afternoon we are resuming the consideration of the Byrd amendment, which would remove the ability of the Congress to rely on estimates in implementing the balanced budget amendment. 
Let me just say a few things about this proposal, keeping in mind I want to reserve some time for my colleague on the other side. If there are any Republicans who want to speak, I hope they will get over here soon, because I am going to reserve the last 5 minutes for my colleague from West Virginia. 
Estimates are a necessary tool to be used by a more vigilant Federal Government living under current law or under the balanced budget amendment. The very first step in the perennial budgeting process is the presentation of the budget estimates of OMB and the CBO, the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office. 
We have just seen this process in action this last month as the President proposed his budget and the Congressional Budget Office came out with its latest deficit predictions, predicting that even though the President is trying to balance the budget--of course, 75 percent of the cuts are in the last 2 years after he has left office--even at that, it is $49 billion in debt come the year 2002. 
This process has not been the subject of intense scrutiny or recriminations. I do not understand why, if it is satisfactory now, some have argued it is insufficient under the balanced budget amendment. 
Now, we all know that no budget can be predicted to the penny more than a year and a half in advance, particularly not the $1.6 or $1.7 trillion Federal budget. Even I am amazed at how high it is now. The bottom line is that we have no crystal ball, only reasonable estimates upon which to work. The President and the Congress use estimates now in budget planning. They are a necessary part of the process. They will continue whether this passes or not. But there will be some incentives to be more careful if the balanced budget amendment passes. The balanced budget amendment accepts the plain truth that the President and Congress use estimates in the budget process and that they are a necessary part of the process and that they will have to have continued use. 
The difference is that the balanced budget amendment provides new incentives for Congress to be more vigilant in actually getting to balance or being more deliberate and accountable in our spending and borrowing decisions. In the past, estimates have been off target at least in part because there was no incentive to get them right in the first place and no real sanction for getting them wrong or failing to live within them. It is ultimately up to Congress to determine the estimates that we use, and, more importantly, it is up to Congress whether they will work to stay within Congress' projected budget or the estimates' projected budget. 
Under current practice, once the Congress passes a budget resolution, it never looks back at these predictions with an eye to adjusting its behavior to accommodate new information. Whether the 
estimates were in fact right or wrong, high or low, Congress is never held accountable under the current system for the accuracy of its estimates or its failure to stay within the stated budget based on those estimates. Under the balanced budget amendment, we would have to be much more vigilant. If the estimates are incorrect, then we, the Congress, will have to set things right to get back on track. Failure to do so would force the Congress to muster a three-fifths vote to approve the deficit and announce to the American people that we have failed to do our job. That is what it will mean. In other words, Congress will be held accountable for its own predictions. This incentive can only help us make more realistic projections and to work to abide by our stated budget goals. 
Further, we have only heard part of the story on the accuracy of estimates. The statistics most often cited to show that the CBO is frequently off target when trying to predict the budget are the earliest estimates that the CBO compiles, often a full 20 months before the end of the fiscal year they are predicting. But there are many other sources of updated information throughout the year. Both OMB, the President's Office of Management and Budget, and the CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, update their budget statistics for the current year and their estimates for the next year every February and every August. Further, the Treasury Department issues monthly statements showing detailed information on receipts, outlays, and borrowing. These multiple reports and any additional ones we might require under the balanced budget amendment give the Congress increasingly accurate information, providing the ability to anticipate a trend towards a deficit and to make appropriate adjustments to the budget. 
Let us also recognize that the early estimates are often distorted by the subsequent volitional acts of the Government. Life under a balanced budget amendment can use estimates more effectively than they are now. The first thing the Congress and the President will do is pass a budget resolution laying out the general scenario for outlays and receipts in the fiscal year. This resolution will be based on estimates, as is now the case. 
At this stage, the wisest policy is to shoot for a budget which is in surplus, which would be a very wonderful thing compared to what it has been over the last 66 years, shoot for a budget that is in surplus to provide a margin for error in case outlays are in fact greater or revenues less than expected during the year. That would become the norm rather than to not do anything, which is the norm today. 
Over the course of the fiscal year, the Congress will need to monitor outlays and receipts. While it is not required that the budget remain in balance during every moment of the year, Congress must work to get its budget back in balance by the end of the year unless it votes, by a three-fifths vote, to authorize a specific deficit. If a trend towards an unintended deficit is observed, Congress should adjust its budget in order to rectify the problem. Indeed, the reconciliation process was originally created for the purpose of adjusting outlays and receipts, if necessary, before the end of each fiscal year. 
Should it be determined that circumstances are serious enough to warrant deficit spending, the Congress could approve an appropriate deficit and raise the debt ceiling, if necessary, as provided for in the balanced budget amendment. 
As the fiscal year comes to a close, Congress will have a very good idea of whether the budget is likely to be out of balance or out of line. This is where Congress will be held accountable for the accuracy of the estimates it adopted earlier. Sloppy estimates will require more work to keep the budget in balance. Realizing this potential difficulty will keep Congress honest in its budget estimates. 
If the budget is balanced or is in surplus, the country will have prospered from disciplined fiscal policy. On the other hand, if it appears that there may be an unintended deficit due to unexpected economic conditions or events, a deficit could be approved but it would take a three-fifths vote to do it. Even if the precise size of the deficit is unknown at the close of the fiscal year, budget forecasts will certainly provide a range in which the deficit will fall. In order to anticipate all contingencies, the Congress would simply approve a deficit at the high end of the projections. That way, the Government would continue proper operations even in the worst case scenario. 
So you see, the Federal budget process can work smoothly and efficiently under the terms of the balanced budget amendment. Further, it will provide the strong incentives towards fiscal responsibility, reasonable budget forecasts, and, most important, a balanced budget. The reality is that under a balanced budget amendment, the Government will have increased accountability for its decisions and increased incentives to act responsibly throughout the year to get to a balanced budget at the end of the year. This is a real change from the system we now have that has given us an unbroken chain of unbalanced budgets for each of the past 28 years. 
Each of the past 28 years--I don't care who you are, you have to be shocked by that. I am so afraid of knocking these over for fear I will crush somebody, but literally, these stacks really tell it all. There is just no real argument against this, other than the argument that you want to spend more, you want to tax more, and that old argument, let us just have the will to do what's right. Come on, give me a break. We haven't had the will for 28 years, we are not going to have it for 28 more if we don't put some fiscal discipline into the Constitution. It is about time to end this game and do what's right. 
And, yes, I have to admit I am very loathe to amend the 
Constitution. It is, to me, an inspired document. Those Founding Fathers never thought for a minute, they never thought for a minute that we would have 28 straight unbalanced budgets and 58 out of 66 years of unbalanced budgets. They never thought that for one minute. They thought the only way you would ever have an unbalanced budget is during time of war or serious, real serious economic distress, and they could understand that. But you would immediately get in balance once the economy picked up or you got out of war. The Founding Fathers knew that, and nobody ever thought in their wildest imaginations that we would be brought to the pitiful, or should I say pitiable, position that we are in today. 
Nonetheless, some proponents of the Byrd amendment contend that the reliance on estimates somehow turns the balanced budget amendment into a gimmick. That claim is simply untrue. And, to paraphrase the distinguished senior Senator from Maine, basically she said, `I'll tell you this, if a balanced budget amendment were a gimmick, Congress would have passed it long ago.' 
I think that says it all. `If the balanced budget were a gimmick, we would have passed it a long time ago,' because we love gimmicks around here, the biggest of which, and the biggest hoax of which, is saying that you have to take the largest item in the Federal budget, Social Security, out of the purview of the balanced budget and then let it sit out there all naked so it can be attacked, manipulated, poked at, taken apart.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Of course I will. And I will also acknowledge it is still $107 billion in debt. If I can just finish, it is amazing to me--I give credit for that. We had what some think is the largest tax increase in history and the deficit has come down. But the fact of the matter is, only in Washington would people say that a $107 billion deficit is making real headway. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just respond. I guess I will do it again. I will stand behind these two stacks of unbalanced budgets for the last 28 years and I will just repeat what the Senator said, the distinguished Senator from Vermont. All you have to do is sign the bill and send it to the President, but we have not been able to do it for 28 years, or 58 out of the last 66. And, by the way, I will give the President credit for bringing down the deficit from around $170 billion to $107 billion, but in each of the next 4 years, according to his budget, the deficit goes up until we are almost back to where we were until you reach 2001 and 2002, after he leaves office, when 75 percent of the cuts are going to take place. And everybody knows that is impossible. I should also mention that there were a lot of factors that helped lower the deficit that had nothing to do with the President. So he deserves some credit, but certainly not all of it. 
So, the same game is still going on, saying all you have to do is present the budget to him and he will sign it. If you believe that, you don't believe that these are real. Anybody who makes that argument just does not know what has gone on for 28 years and they just don't believe these books are real. I am telling you they are real. This is America, this is where we are going. We are in a fiscal deficit like you cannot believe and only in Washington, DC do people believe that a $107 billion deficit for a fiscal year is wonderful. 
And, by the way, even the poor are paying more under the so-called tax cuts that the distinguished Senator is talking about. When you look at the Social Security tax they are paying, they pay more in Social Security taxes than they do income taxes; user fees, various user fees; they are paying more for pharmaceutical products because of user fees. I was not very happy with it at the time. They are paying higher gas taxes, at least 4 cents or 5 cents a gallon more. That hits the poor harder than anything else. You can go right on down the line. There are an awful lot of extra taxes that people are paying that we hide around here every year because we don't have to be responsible under the current system. 
We have shared responsibility for our debt. I am not just blaming colleagues on the other side. There are colleagues on our side--all of us are responsible for it. And we have shared responsibility for our recent gains because some of the cutbacks in programs and restraint of growth occurred from this side of the aisle. 
The tax increase did occur from that side of the aisle. We did not support that. 
I think we should stop the partisan bickering and do what we need to do. I think what we need to do is adopt Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment, and if we do that, I really believe we will be able to make real headway in a joint effort and in a bipartisan way to solve the problems of this country, especially the fiscal problems. 
As I have pointed out, common-sense reliance on estimates is the best way to apply the balanced budget rule. Further, the opponents' claim focuses only on the deficit vote in section 1 of the balanced budget amendment, but ignores the debt ceiling vote that is required in section 2. 
Under the balanced budget amendment, if we want to raise the limit on the debt, we need a three-fifths vote of both Houses of Congress. The debt is not an estimate. It is the real, cold, hard fact. The bottom line is, regardless of what the estimates say, under the balanced budget amendment, our children cannot be saddled with more debt unless there is a vote under the appropriate provision, and, in this case, it is section 2. 
There are no loopholes here. Reliance on estimates is both reasonable and sound. If we did not permit a reliance on estimates, someone on the other side would be arguing that the balanced budget amendment would be unworkable because it does not let us rely on estimates. You can just bank on it. Indeed, on the one hand, some opponents argue that the balanced budget amendment would be a straitjacket, while this proposal by my friend from West Virginia argues that it is not stringent enough. If this pending amendment of the distinguished Senator from West Virginia were adopted, this balanced budget amendment would be much harder to work with, and you could bet that we would hear from the critics then. 
Mr. President, this balanced budget amendment that we are debating is the real thing, and that is why so much noise is being made about it. If it wasn't important, there would not be this colossal fight every time we bring it up. It would shake things up in Washington, and there are some who are afraid of that. Personally, I think this town could use a good shaking by its neck. I am not one of those who is afraid of what the balanced budget amendment would do. I am not willing to add many more books to this pile. Even if we pass the balanced budget amendment and it is ratified by 38 States, or three-quarters of the States, we will still have another 5 years leading up to a balanced budget, but at least we know the game is over; we will have to get there. 
I am not willing to ruin this country's economy, and I am most certainly not willing to increase that $20,000 in debt that every man, woman, and child in America currently owes as their share of the national debt. I hope our colleagues will defeat the pending amendment and move on to passing Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. 
Mr. President, how much time do I have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 5 minutes to the distinguished Senator 
from West Virginia. I will reserve 1 minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I say in relation to section 6, the term `appropriate legislation' has appeared in every enforcement clause that has been adopted since the Civil War. But in order for appropriate legislation to become a law, it must be passed by both Houses of Congress, presented to the President, and signed by him into law. I do not think there is any question about it. I yield back the balance of my time. I move to table and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am hoping we can conclude debate for this evening. I will say a few words and hope that our leadership will be ready to end the session for today. I give warning that I am prepared to close down the Senate if the Senate is prepared to be closed down. 
Let me just say a few words about my friend's amendment. My friend, Senator Reid, and others seek to remove Social Security from the protections of the balanced budget amendment. I look forward to a lengthy debate tomorrow on this subject and this issue. But while I respect these critics, and I certainly do, the truth of the matter is that the Reid amendment is merely a diversion from what should be the real focus of this debate: whether the Constitution should be amended to require a balanced 
budget amendment except in exigent circumstances. 
When I say that, I again look at these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. This is the real issue. Everybody knows that if the Reid amendment passes, this is going to only get worse. The fact of the matter is, if we are going to do anything about this, we have to pass the underlying balanced budget amendment without the Reid amendment on it. Exempting Social Security from the balanced budget amendment will create an overwhelming incentive to do just what these critics fear. 
Let me point out this chart here. Social Security--don't leave it out. The budget is protected by the balanced budget amendment. If Social Security is left out, special interests will eat Social Security surpluses like cheese. There is no question about it. This exemption would focus budget pressures on the Social Security trust fund that could destroy the viability of the Social Security trust fund itself. It is a risky gimmick, and it has no real relationship to the goals sought. 
Taking Social Security off budget will subject its funds to Washington's special interest scavengers. When you have rats in your home, you need to plug up all the holes. If you do not, they will find a way in. If we leave Social Security off budget, new and old special interest spending initiatives which cannot survive or make their way in under a balanced budget plan will smell out the scent of Social Security and simply devour, just like these rats that are devouring the Social Security cheese. You need to leave it in because the budget will be protected by the balanced budget amendment. Do not take it out. 
Furthermore, exempting the trust funds is simply unjustified. There already exists an elaborate scheme of firewalls that protect the trust funds from Presidential and congressional tampering. Nothing in the balanced budget amendment is inconsistent with the statutory firewall scheme. The truth is that the passage of Senate Joint Resolution 1 is the best way to preserve Social Security benefits. 
Mr. President, I must emphasize another reason why the Reid amendment is unnecessary. The proposal to remove Social Security from the protections of the balanced budget amendment does nothing to respond to the concern that Social Security benefits will be reduced. This is the language of the Reid amendment. Nothing in the exemption would protect Social Security recipients from either benefit cuts or tax increases. Just look at the message there. In fact, the Reid amendment could weaken the financial integrity of the Social Security System. 
Under current projections, Social Security will have exhausted the trust funds and will be running deficits by the year 2029. Many of us believe they will run deficits before then. By 2070, as shown on the chart, Social Security will face a startling $7 trillion shortfall. Just look at these deficits--by 2070, a $7 trillion shortfall. 
Excluding Social Security ignores this problem and places the whole system in dire jeopardy. Including Social Security in the budget calculation forces Congress to address the pending crisis in a responsible manner before it becomes too late. Why? Because exempting Social Security creates two budgets, one which must be balanced because receipts must equal outlays, and the other, a Social Security trust budget which will contain the current trust fund's surplus. This second budget presents the political branches of Government with a powerful incentive to redefine costly spending programs as Social Security and pay for them through what would become a giant loophole in any attempt to balance the budget. 
There is no telling where these games might lead. Imagine the christening of the SS Social Security battleship, or the creation of the Social Security National Park, which will probably, of course, be located in Utah if this administration has anything to say about it. Thus, this loophole would make it easy to balance the budget on paper without changing anything except accounting methods. And, in perhaps the ultimate paradox, Congress could use the loophole to seem to eliminate the deficit without a single spending cut. 
According to Wall Street analyst David Malpass, who recently testified before the Judiciary Committee, `Financial markets would react negatively to a budget concept that ignores Social Security.' By passing a balanced budget that excludes Social Security, Congress would, according to him, and I think anybody else who looks at it objectively, `game' the system, saying, in effect, that it does not intend to balance the consolidated unitary Federal budget. For Malpass and other market analysts, `This would be a decidedly negative signal for financial markets leading to higher interest rates.' That would hurt every citizen in this country, but most of all the poor. 
Furthermore, Wall Street's support for the balanced budget amendment was made evident today in a full-page advertisement that Merrill Lynch placed in Roll Call. The ad was entitled `Why the Balanced Budget Amendment Makes Sense.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I believe that this gamesmanship is exactly what must be avoided. The way to avoid it is to reject such exemptions. The best way to protect retirees of future generations is to adopt a clean and strong balanced budget amendment, free of loopholes. Significantly, critics of Senate Joint Resolution 1, who wish to exempt Social Security, have not demonstrated in the least how they would balance the budget without including the present Social Security trust fund surpluses, which, as I stated, is only temporary. Presumably, without including the present surpluses in budget calculations, other programs would have to suffer greater cuts. 
It is ironic that many of those who argue that a balanced budget constitutional amendment would cause cuts in social programs are themselves calling for the exemption of Social Security, advocating draconian cuts in their most favorite programs. Let me give you an example. Between the years 2002 and 2007, without including the surplus, the deficit will appear to be $700 billion larger than it is. This means either a mammoth tax hike on all American families--almost $1,100 per year per household--or devastating cuts in important programs like Medicare, cancer, and other disease research, Head Start, and environmental cleanup. I might add that Treasury Secretary Rubin, at a January 17 balanced budget constitutional amendment hearing, testified that the trust fund surplus will be included in the Presidential budget, and that this view of budget policy reflects the view of the President and the Congress. 
Indeed, President Clinton, in a recent press conference, while opposing the balanced budget constitutional amendment, admitted he could not balance the budget without counting the present Social Security surpluses. In the words of the President, `Neither the Republicans nor I could produce a balanced budget tomorrow that could pass if Social Security funds could not be counted.' In fact, all the budgets the President has submitted to Congress have contained the Social Security surplus. Some would think it hypocritical to not argue that it should not be included. I would never go that far, but it is a game that is being played by the White House and, frankly, it is time for the games to end. 
The President knows that not including the present day surpluses would require draconian cuts to other worthwhile Federal programs. By the way, contrary to what Senator Reid has alleged, CRS did not--let me emphasize this--conclude in any of its memoranda that the balanced budget amendment requirement and the Social Security program would prohibit the use of surpluses or other receipts to finance benefits in succeeding years. In fact, today, the nonpartisan Concord Coalition--a nonpartisan group founded by a Democrat, Paul Tsongas, and a Republican, Warren Rudman--revealed a study that clearly demonstrates that the best way to protect Social Security is to adopt this clean, unamended balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
I want to point out that the Concord Coalition has been cited by both sides as a responsible group trying to do the best to bring about good budgetary matters in this country. I also want to point out that these amendments that are attacking this balanced budget amendment would, for the first time, place a statutory reference in 
the Constitution. The constitutional effect of this is unclear and likely to engender much confusion that could be destructive in both balanced budgets and Social Security. In fact, former Assistant and Acting Attorney General Stuart Gerson, and attorney Alan Morrison, a liberal attorney, as witnesses for the majority and minority, respectively, in a recent hearing on Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget constitutional amendment, agreed that exempting Social Security from the balanced budget amendment is a bad, bad idea. 
According to Alan Morrison, a litigator with the Public Citizen, who opposes the balanced budget amendment and who testified for the minority:  
Given the size of Social Security, to allow it to run at a deficit would undermine the whole concept of a balanced budget. Moreover, there is no definition of Social Security in the Constitution, and it would be extremely unwise and productive of litigation and political maneuvering to try to write one. If there is to be a balanced budget constitutional amendment, there should be no exceptions. 
He is a liberal and is affiliated with the Ralph Nader group. But he is a competent constitutional expert. Normally, he is advocating the most liberal constitutional principles. But even he said there should be no exemptions like the Reid amendment to this balanced budget amendment. 
Mr. President, I am eager for the debate tomorrow over the Social Security exemption. I am confident that when the dust settles, the Reid amendment will go down to defeat because it will be shown to be not only unnecessary, but also harmful to the very thing it sought to safeguard, Social Security. 
I have stated that the debate on the Reid amendment is really a diversion from the real underlying issue--whether this Nation has the will to avert a common fiscal crisis. Mr. President, the absolute biggest threat to Social Security is our growing debt and concomitant interest payments. Debt-related inflation hits hard those on fixed incomes, and the Government's use of capital to fund debt slows productivity and income growth and siphons off needed money for worthwhile programs. The way to protect Social Security benefits is to pass Senate Joint Resolution 1. The proposal to exempt Social Security will not only destroy the balanced budget amendment, but, in all probability, will also cause the Social Security trust funds to run out of money sooner than they would have without an exemption, risking the viability of the Social Security program itself. 
Finally, the Senator from Nevada has raised the specter that the balanced budget amendment may cause the Social Security trust funds to be `raided,' because the amounts of the present day surplus will be included in budget calculations. This contention is erroneous for several reasons. 
The argument to exempt Social Security surpluses disregards the fact that the United States has a unified budget, and not including the present trust fund surpluses will make the budget very difficult to balance and threatens the vitality of other Federal programs. 
The Social Security trust funds are, in actuality, nothing 
more than an accounting device. Let's consider this chart on how the system works. Social Security tax receipts are not kept in some sort of isolated bank vault. Instead, Social Security taxes are deposited into accounts maintained by the Federal Government with various financial institutions. Social Security taxes, along with other deposited receipts, become part of the U.S. Treasury. FICA tax receipts go to the Social Security Administration, and they are passed on from there to the Treasury, where all FICA tax proceeds are commingled with the general funds. In return, the Treasury invests in Treasury bonds which will be redeemed later. These bonds are, incidentally, the most important and stable securities in the world. 
All the Treasury moneys are indistinguishable from other deposited moneys. But the Social Security revenues are accounted for separately through the issuance of Federal securities to trust funds. The trust funds do not hold the moneys. They are simply bookkeeping accounts. 
Thus, as part of unified budget, any surplus derived from the trust funds, much like other revenues, is used to finance the operations of the Federal Government. Like all of us, the Federal Government has one budget. Listing categories of spending in discrete bookkeeping entries does not reduce the size of what we owe or spend. 
Moreover the surplus Social Security taxes being collected today will not cover the future cost of the system. Most of current Social Security taxes are currently used to cover benefit payments to present retirees. 
Outlays will exceed receipts of the system, and the year that it is suspected to do that is the year 2019. The guarantee of future benefits, therefore, will depend on the Federal Government's future ability to levy taxes, the size and the amount of the benefits, and the overall health of the economy, not the balances or `surpluses' of the trust funds. 
To characterize the use of the surplus as `raiding' the trust funds is, therefore, erroneous and absolutely wrong. Furthermore, the exclusion of the present-day surpluses in the budget will make it extraordinarily difficult to balance the budget by the year 2002, the date Senate Joint Resolution 1 mandates balancing the budget. Between now and the year 2002, the surplus is estimated to be over $500 billion in current dollars. Ten years from now, the year 2007, the value of trust fund surpluses is expected to be $1.067 trillion. This is an annual surplus average of approximately $100 billion. 
According to current budgetary figures, $100 billion per year is more than our current annual expenditure on education, the environment, and transportation and infrastructure. Mr. President, $1.067 trillion is in fact more than our expenditure this year on Medicare, education, veterans' benefits, the environment, national defense, Social Security, transportation and infrastructure, and natural resources combined. 
Where will we come up with the money to fund these programs if we exclude Social Security surpluses from the unified budget? Federal programs would have to be cut, or taxes raised by this amount to reach the balanced budget goal. Ironically, it appears that those who yell the loudest to exempt Social Security are the very same people who wish to increase the very social welfare programs that are being put at risk by this exemption. They are the ones that are really screaming about wanting to spend more on social programs, which will have to be cut if this amendment becomes law. 
The real issue is where are we going to get the money to redeem the Federal securities that make up the Social Security trust funds? 
Let's put that other chart up. Where will we come up with this $1.067 trillion shortfall if Social Security is exempted from the balanced budget amendment? 
The trust funds are not being raided. We owe the money to the Social Security trust fund, and we will have to pay. But if Social Security is exempted from the balanced budget amendment it will be mortally wounded. Either other programs will be relabeled `Social Security' so that they take away from the luster of Social Security and the willingness of people to support it like it should be. Either programs will be relabeled `Social Security'--as we have done in the past--and the present surpluses will be spent, or the surplus will be used to pay down our national debt. And thereafter we will keep spending until we have reached the debt ceiling. Either way, the surplus will be used up. 
Well, frankly, it is the Reid exemption and the Reid amendment that will ultimately destroy Social Security. The best way to face the coming problems with the Social Security System is through a unified budget. We all have to work together within constraints to 
redeem those securities, and not allow any other programs to be relabeled Social Security or affect the Social Security trust funds. But if we don't, if we take Social Security outside the unified budget, the rats will come and eat it away. Inside, Social Security competes better than any other issue for budgetary markets. So, it is penny-wise and pound-foolish to take it out and risk having to reduce all of these other good social welfare programs. Head Start, education, environment, highways and infrastructure--all of these programs that are so important would have to be cut to reach a balanced budget by the year 2002 if Social Security is exempted. 
We show that by the year 2019--on this chart, the green part is the surpluses--surpluses drop, and huge deficits will be as high as $7 trillion a year by the year 2007. Without the balanced budget amendment, that is where we are headed. 
We would not get this balanced budget if the Reid amendment happened to pass. And, if it did past, it would put us at tremendous risk as we try to reach a balanced budget by the year 2002. We would have to cut almost every social program that we have more than we should. Naturally we are going to have to find restraint in growth, and we are going to have to find ways of cutting without cutting to the bone. 
Taking Social Security out. I have to tell you, it will still be the same system. The only difference is we will still be investing in the bonds which I was showing--these Federal Government securities. The only difference is our colleagues who want to spend more will be spending those surpluses for more social welfare programs without reaching a balanced budget. 
The fact is that this country will be doomed. We have to pass this amendment. Frankly, it is the only thing I know to stop the rats from raiding all of our budgetary assets. And this will start us on the the pathway of getting things in order. 
Look. We know that we cannot keep up the same system. We cannot keep doing this. We just can't keep doing this. And the only chance to put an end to these types of unbalanced budgets year after year is to pass this balanced budget amendment, and to pass it intact without these amendments, as sincere as they may be. 
Mr. President, I am prepared to move on this side of the Senate, if we can.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19970224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I do not want to prolong the debate tonight, but I have to say no matter what you do, those funds are going to be invested in bonds, U.S. securities. That is what is statutorily required. 
The fact is, if you set Social Security outside of the budget, if Social Security is defined by statute, it can be redefined by statute. So we have accounting surpluses in Social Security. I am just using bizarre examples, but what about Medicare? People around here are not willing to reform Medicare. They are not willing to pay the price to get it done. They just want to find some other revenue source to pay for it. It would be easy to shove it into Social Security and make the surplus pay for it rather than facing the music which the balanced budget amendment would make us do. 
And it is not just that. It is all social spending they want to do. They will use that surplus for that rather than using it for what it needs to be used for, and that is to balance the budget. And the only way you are going to get the payment for that Social Security surplus in the future is if the United States can redeem its bonds. And the only way the United States can redeem its bonds in the year 2020 is if we do what is right today and we pass a balanced budget amendment. 
That is the only way, because every dime of it, if there is a surplus up to the year 2020, every dime will be invested in Federal Government bonds, every dime, just like it is today. 
The question is, will we be using those dollars, every dime in those dollars, to balance the budget or will it just be another big spending spree by those who want to spend us blind and who have done so for 28 straight years? 
I do not mean to sound rabid about this, but this is important stuff. And when we start talking about putting Social Security outside the balanced budget amendment, we're really talking about milking that program to death. You cannot get away with it if it is all on budget. If it is a unified budget, you cannot get away with it. And these people say it is currently raided. Everyone knows that every single nickel of that money is going to go into Federal Government bonds. The question is whether that money is going to be used to reduce the deficit and get us to a balanced budget by the year 2002 or whether we are going to have people raiding it and using it to pay for other additional social spending programs because it is not subject to balanced budget requisites. 
This is a pretty serious issue. I have here a wonderful article by Stephen Chapman in Sunday's Washington Times entitled `Balanced Budget Shell Game.' 
He says:  
Opponents of a simple balanced budget amendment, which include President Clinton, say it would harm retirees by allowing Social Security surpluses to be used to offset deficits elsewhere in the budget. 
North Dakota's Democratic Sen. Byron Dorgan says such a `misuse' would violate `a solemn promise:' 
How is that, since all that money is going to be invested in 
Federal Government bonds? The question is, what is it going to be used for, once the Government gets the money? Is it going to be used to balance the budget or used for more spending, which is going to happen if the Reid amendment passes? 
This tax taken from your paycheck goes into a trust fund to be used for only one purpose, and that is to fund the Social Security system. The critics say the amendment would encourage Congress to cut retirement benefits to pay for tax cuts and other programs at the expense of the elderly. 
They propose an alternative version that excludes Social Security from deficit calculations. For many Members of Congress, this option has an extra attraction: It has no chance of enactment, since it would force Congress to come up with another $465 billion in spending cuts or tax increases between now and the year 2002. So there will be no need to make the unpleasant choices that our lawmakers have been dodging for an entire generation. 
As they have passed these 28 unbalanced budgets and 58 of the last 66. 
The opponents have found a clever way to gull voters into accepting a continued tide of red ink. 
But the public shouldn't be fooled. The opponents are playing a shell game, hoping voters won't be able to detect their sleight of hand. The fears they have for Social Security are unfounded and their solution would protect only fiscal indiscipline. 
Indiscipline, not discipline. 
First of all, excluding Social Security would create a loophole big enough to drive a $300 billion deficit through. If Social Security is exempt from the balanced-budget requirement, everything will be Social Security. Any program with any remote benefit to the elderly can easily be renamed. `Housing, national health care, highways will be treated as Social Security,' says Heritage Foundation budget expert Daniel Mitchell. We would end up with a `balanced' budget that drives us ever deeper into debt. 
The exclusion is billed as a way to prevent looting of the trust fund, but its actual effect would be zero. Right now, the retirement fund is running a surplus every year. The surplus is `invested' in government bonds--in other words, it is lent to the Treasury, which uses the borrowed money to pay for other government programs. Once it is excluded from the budget, the surplus will still be lent to the Treasury. Mr. Dorgan says Social Security taxes should never be used except to pay Social Security benefits. But his proposal does nothing to prevent that. 
The ostensible reason we are running a surplus is to build up a reserve that can be used to pay benefits when the Baby-Boom generation retires. Dorgan and Co. say the original balanced-budget amendment would deplete that reserve, seriously endangering future benefits. Nonsense. The `reserve' consists of government bonds. These are nothing more than IOUs, which cannot be repaid unless future taxpayers are willing. When the Baby Boomers retire, taxes will have to rise to pay their benefits. That's true whether Social Security runs a surplus today or not. 
The opponents insist that excluding Social Security from the amendment would shield it from politicians eager to starve Grandma so they can hand out goodies to special interests. Since Congress wouldn't be able to reduce the deficit by cutting Social Security benefits, those benefits would be as safe as the gold in Fort Knox. 
This argument is neat, simple and hopelessly naive. What it overlooks is that if Congress can't use the surplus to balance the budget, it can always get rid of the surplus by cutting payroll taxes--then raise taxes an equivalent amount elsewhere to pay for the programs it wants. It could also cut benefits to allow even deeper cuts in the payroll tax, which would permit additional tax increases to finance spending that doesn't help the elderly. The protection for Social Security would soon turn out to be no protection at all. 
The opponents of the original amendment take the politically easy position of saying that the Constitution shouldn't require the budget to be balanced at the expense of the elderly. What they mean is that the Constitution shouldn't require the budget to be balanced at the expense of anyone. 
The fact is, the same funds will be invested in the same bonds, and the credit of the United States will have to take care of those bonds in the future or people on Social Security will not have the money. You saw the deficits expected in Social Security during the next century. 
The fact is, unless we balance this budget, unless we get fiscal discipline into the Constitution, I guarantee we are not going to do what is necessary to solve our fiscal problems. We are certainly not going to have the funds to take care of Social Security in the future. 
So, passing the balanced budget amendment in its current form, in the form that we have here, the only one that has a chance of passage, is our only hope to get spending under control. 
Mr. President, I am prepared to turn the floor over to the majority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970213</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with many others in Utah who have expressed their appreciation to Bill Hodson, director of the Salt Lake City Veterans Medical Center. 
Bill recently retired after many years of faithful service to our Nation's veterans from New Jersey to Arizona, including the last 11 years in Salt Lake City. These years have been ones of great accomplishment, not just for Bill personally, but for the VA. We have all, in one way or another, benefited from his innovation and determination. In 1992, Bill received the Secretary's Award for advancement in nursing programs. 
But, we in Utah owe Bill a particular debt of gratitude for his stewardship of our Salt Lake VA Medical Center. Bill Hodson led the way on a $30 million project to renovate the main building of the VA Medical Center for patient areas and ambulatory care clinics, successful management of a dynamic heart transplant program, and expanded research and training programs. The buildings and services that Bill has built will be a lasting legacy of Bill's leadership and commitment to public service. 
There can be no question that Bill was a highly able administrator; but, more importantly, his compassion and concern for others has earned him a special place in the hearts of veterans--and indeed all the citizens of Utah. 
Bill Hodson has been active in our community, particularly in the Greater Salt Lake Council of the Boy Scouts of America. This involvement clearly shows that he not only honors those citizens who have already contributed to our country, but also that he believes in our youth and their capacity for contributing to our future. We will miss him at the head of the Salt Lake VA Medical Center, but look forward to his continuing involvement in our community. 
I hope that as he reads this tribute, Bill is already sitting on a nice warm beach and enjoying the first well deserved fruits of retirement. I wish him all the best and hope my colleagues will join me in recognizing an exemplary public servant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970213</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I report to the Senate the rules adopted by the Committee on the Judiciary as provided for in rule 26.2 of the Standing Rules of the Senate. These rules were unanimously adopted by the committee in open session on January 23, 1997, and I ask that they be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970213</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to take this time to briefly respond to Senator Hollings concerning his remarks claiming that passage and ratification of the balanced budget amendment would harm the Social Security Program. As did Senators Dorgan, Reid, and Conrad at a press conference held yesterday, Senator Hollings claimed that a one-page memorandum, dated February 5, 1997, from the Congressional Research Service--which was inaccurately termed a `study'--was characterized as proof that passage and ratification of the balanced budget amendment will harm Social Security. This is alleged to be true because the balanced budget amendment would not allow the present day surplus to be used in the future when the program goes into the red to pay benefits. The problem is that the CRS memorandum did not conclude that at all. 
All the CRS memorandum concluded was that Social Security existing surpluses after 2019--the year the program no longer produces surpluses because of the retirement of the baby boomers--could not be used to fund the program unless benefit expenditures were offset by revenue or budget cuts. Of course this is technically true. That's what a balanced budget does. It balances outlays and receipts in a given year, and expenditure of any part of the budget is an outlay. Despite what Senator Hollings alleges today, and Senators Conrad, Dorgan, and Reid claimed yesterday at their press conference, under current law, assets of the Federal Treasury could be drawn upon to ensure payments to beneficiaries today and when the system starts running annual deficits. 
To clear-up the confusion that the Conrad-Dorgan-Reid press conference created about the February 5 CRS memorandum, which Senator Hollings has apparently bought into, CRS produced another memorandum at Senator Domenici's request. I want to thank Senator Domenici for requesting this new CRS memorandum--dated February 12, 1997. This memorandum clearly states--and I quote--`We [that is CRS] are not concluding that the trust fund surpluses could not be drawn down to pay beneficiaries. The balanced budget amendment would not require that result.' 
Senator Hollings and the other critics of the balanced budget fail to mention a few things. They fail to mention that CRS in the memorandum also concluded that the present day surpluses are merely `an accounting practice.' Past CRS studies clearly demonstrate that the Social Security trust funds are indeed an accounting measure. There is no separate Federal vault where Social Security receipts are stored. There exists no separate Social Security trust fund separate from the budget. Social Security taxes--called FICA taxes--are simply deposited with all other Federal revenues. The moneys attributed to Social Security are tracked as bookkeeping entries so that we can determine how well the program operates. 
As soon as the amounts attributed to FICA taxes are entered on the books, Federal interest bearing bonds are electronically entered as being purchased. This is the safest investment that exists. 
This country has a unified budget. This means that the proceeds from Social Security Taxes are part of the Treasury--of general revenue. CRS has recognized this. Moreover, I might add, without including the present day surpluses, the budget cannot be balanced. That is why President Clinton has included the Social Security funds in every one of his budgets. Did Senators Hollings, Conrad, Dorgan, and Reid oppose this? 
Senator Hollings also denies that we have a unitary budget. He says that the 1990 Budget Enforcement Act [BEA] placed Social Security off-budget. That, in fact, we have two budgets--one for Social Security and one for the rest of the Nation. Let me expand on the remarks I made yesterday concerning the 1990 Budget Enforcement Act and explain why Senator Hollings position is false. Under section 13301(a) of the act, the receipts and outlays of the Social Security trust funds are indeed not counted in both the President and Congress' budgets. So it is off-budget, but for only certain specific reasons. The primary purpose for this exclusion was to exempt Social Security from sequestration by the President under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings procedures and from the act's pay-as-you-go requirement. In addition, as added protections, sections 13302 and 13303 of the BEA also created firewall point-of-order protections for the Social Security trust funds in both the House and Senate. Nevertheless, this does not preclude both Congress and the President from formulating a unitary budget--that includes Social Security trust funds--for national fiscal purposes. 
Look, I recognize that Social Security is in danger. But the problem is not the inclusion Social Security funds in the budget. The problem is that with the retirement of baby boomers, there will not be enough FICA taxes to fund their retirement. CRS, in an other study, concluded that the present day surpluses would not be sufficient to resolve this problem. These Senators never mention that. CRS also concluded that the Social Security Program needs to be fixed. 
Indeed, not including Social Security in the budget would harm the program. Congress would rename social programs--as they have done before--as Social Security and use the FICA taxes to fund these programs. Then you'll really see the program raided. 
My colleagues problem--in reality--is not with the balanced budget amendment, but with the problems the Social Security Program faces. We need to fix that and adopting the balanced budget amendment is a good start.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order following the remarks of Senator Moseley-Braun. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. When I got the unanimous consent-agreement, I did so that all time would be divided equally. Can the Senator give me an indication of how long he will be speaking? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could we divide the time so the Republican time will be taken off our time and the Democratic time is taken off your time? It would be fairer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand the distinguished Senator from Michigan would like to make his remarks. I have some remarks I would like to make immediately thereafter, so I ask unanimous consent I defer to him so he can make his remarks in support of the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Connecticut, and then I would like to proceed immediately thereafter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask how much time the distinguished Senator from Michigan needs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I ask unanimous consent he be permitted to speak for 8 minutes and then the floor return to me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I did not realize the distinguished Senator from Connecticut had not finished his remarks. I will be happy to allow him to finish. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I will proceed then on our time. I have to oppose this amendment proposed by the Senator from Connecticut, and I hope all of my colleagues will do the same. 
Senator Dodd has offered an amendment to section 5 of the balanced budget amendment. I might add, section 5 is a very important part of Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. We realize that protecting the security of the Nation is the most important responsibility that we have. Indeed, it is the most important duty for any government. Thus, we have dealt with that problem in section 5 of the balanced budget amendment. In that provision, we allow the requirements of this amendment to be waived in two circumstances. One is `any year in which a declaration of war is in effect.' The other is when the Nation is `engaged in a military conflict which causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security and is so declared by a joint resolution adopted by a majority of the whole number of each House, which becomes law.' 
Those are two very important protections. They protect us from all that the distinguished Senator has been talking about, and, frankly, his amendment, I think, gums this up pretty badly. 
The balanced budget amendment, therefore, deals with the two situations in the modern era in which the Nation faces a challenge to its ability to survive, situations in which there is a declared war between this Nation and another country and situations in which there is a military conflict that is unaccompanied by a declaration of war, but that nonetheless causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security. 
In those circumstances the authors of the balanced budget amendment believe that the Nation may need greater flexibility than the amendment otherwise allows. At the same time, the carefully balanced text of that provision makes sure that the circumstances in which such a waiver can be more easily accomplished are limited only to those situations in which such a waiver is necessary. 
I have the greatest respect for my colleague from Connecticut, Senator Dodd. We are very close friends, but his amendment would upset the balance that we have achieved in section 5. 
Senator Dodd's amendment would permit a waiver of the balanced budget amendment whenever we face a serious military threat by a simple joint resolution, but he explicitly removes the requirement that the resolution become law. That is troublesome in this context. Ordinarily, being silent about such a matter would be of no consequence. After all, any Member of this Chamber, like any Member of the House of Representatives, can introduce a joint resolution or can submit a resolution on this matter. The real work comes in getting a bill or a resolution passed. But here, by removing the requirement from section 5 of the BBA, [the balanced budget amendment], that the joint resolution `become law,' Senator Dodd's amendment could be read by an activist court as eliminating the requirement that the resolution actually become law. 
Thus, in order to waive the balanced budget amendment under the Dodd amendment, the President would not have to sign the resolution, would not have to put himself on the line, or herself on the line, and neither House of Congress would have to pass or even vote on the resolution. No committee would have to mark up the resolution. No hearings need be held. Apparently, all that it would require is that any Member of either body merely introduce a joint resolution declaring that the United States faces a serious military threat. 
That sole action would apparently suffice to waive the balanced budget rule for the entire fiscal year under the Dodd amendment. Clearly, that would be a bizarre state of affairs. I would be much more impressed with this amendment if it was sponsored by those who literally have been long-time supporters of a balanced budget amendment. Literally, this is an amendment that looks as though it is making every attempt to gut the balanced budget amendment. 
Madam President, both the balanced budget amendment waiver for national security and the Dodd amendment use the threshold phrase of `an imminent and serious military threat to national security' as being a situation in which the balanced budget amendment requirements could be waived. Even though both the balanced budget amendment and the Dodd amendment used that phrase, there are two critical differences between the two. 
The first critical difference is the following: Unlike the Dodd amendment, this amendment that is currently pending, the balanced budget amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, that we want to pass, also requires that the United States actually be `engaged in military conflict' in order to waive the balanced budget rule by less than a three-fifths vote. 
By contrast, the Dodd amendment does not require that this Nation be engaged in such military conflict. In fact, the Dodd amendment would delete the term `military conflict' from the final balanced budget amendment. 
That alone is a significant difference between Senate Joint Resolution 1 and the amendment offered by our distinguished Senator from Connecticut. I understand what a military conflict is. It involves shooting, combat, or the like. By contrast, the term `threat' is far more expansive and far more pliable. That term embraces a broad range of situations that could fall far short of the type of circumstance in which section 5 of Senate Joint Resolution 1 as presently written would allow the balanced budget amendment's requirements to be waived. 
It is easy to imagine various events that could occur that would trigger the waiver provisions of the permissive Dodd amendment. For example, last year China fired several missiles in the vicinity of Taiwan, a valuable friend of the United States, as is China. That could have triggered the provisions of the Dodd amendment if somebody merely filed a resolution, pursuant to the Dodd amendment. The United States also has been witness to oil embargoes which also could trigger the Dodd amendment in the future. These events and others--you can go down a long list--would have allowed the Congress to easily waive the requirements of the balanced budget amendment if the Dodd amendment became part of the final, passed balanced budget amendment. 
Indeed, ever since the advent and proliferation of nuclear weapons, it could be cogently argued that the United States has `faced an imminent and serious military threat to national security.' You can argue that every year in a sense. And that threat would be presented not just by the republics of the former Soviet Union or by China, which are nuclear powers, but also by other countries that may be on the cusp of developing nuclear weapons, chemical weapons, biological weapons, and so forth, by terrorist nations, to say nothing of any other weapons that may come along. So anyone who sought refuge or seeks refuge from the tough choices necessary to balance the budget could invoke this threat and waive the balanced budget rule. So it would never be effective, that is, if the Dodd amendment is adopted. That is just as clear as the amendment. 
The second difference between the balanced budget amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, the amendment we are trying to pass as written, and the Dodd amendment is closely related to the first. The balanced budget amendment requires that the military conflict cause the imminent and serious military threat to national security. That would be the only circumstance under which the balanced budget amendment's requirements could be waived. The existence of a military conflict, therefore, is not sufficient by itself to allow Congress to escape the requirements of the balanced budget amendment. No. That military conflict also must have a particular effect; namely an imminent and serious military threat to national security. 
These two requirements in Senate Joint Resolution 1, Madam President, which the distinguished Senator from Connecticut would like to amend with this permissive language, are two important requirements. As much as we pray that these events do not occur, we must face the reality that there may be times when our Nation is at war. We also must face the reality that there may be times when our Nation is embroiled in a military conflict imminently threatening national security but unaccompanied by a formal declaration of war, such as occurred during the gulf war. When either such event occurs, the Nation and the Congress may need greater flexibility than the balanced budget amendment would allow. I am sure we all agree that protecting the survival and safety of our Nation is our most pressing responsibility. 
Senator Dodd's proposal does not serve these goals. His amendment is not designed to allow the military to deal with threats to national security that do not rise to the level already discussed by me. Nor is his amendment limited to permitting the 
military to increase spending to respond to such a threat. No. His amendment would waive all the requirements of the balanced budget amendment even though Congress has not declared war and even though the President has not committed our Armed Forces to a military conflict. His amendment provides an escape hatch for all other--for all other--situations. 
In short, Madam President, the Dodd amendment is a gigantic loophole. Its effect is to weaken and confuse the standard by which the balanced budget amendment may be waived and thus weakens the balanced budget amendment itself. In this age, it is well established that nations with greater economic power stand a much better chance of prevailing in sustained military conflicts. There is nothing that would be better for our economic strength than to pass Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. 
If we pass this loophole offered by the Senator from Connecticut, it will be abused and thus allow our debt to continue to increase. In years when we should be in balance, the debt will continue to pile up. Our children will be saddled with even more debt, and we will be woefully unprepared as a nation if it is ever necessary to defend our liberty in the future. 
By the terms of the President's proposed budget, we would spend nearly as much on net interest in the debt next year as we will on the defense needs of our Nation--just to pay the interest on the debt. That makes the need for the balanced budget amendment about as clear as it can be. 
If we continue to allow this debt to skyrocket, if we put loopholes such as this into the balanced budget amendment, if we do not stop this fiscal insanity that currently pervades our Nation, we will simply not have the economic strength to stand on our own militarily or to protect our interests in times of threat. There is nothing better for our Nation's defense than to adopt Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment, and be certain that we will have the economics necessary to keep our military the best equipped, best trained force in the world. 
Indeed, the Dodd amendment could be abused in a way that hurts our military preparedness. Congress could purposely underfund the military at the beginning of the fiscal year to use the extra funds for other programs. 
In fact, I suspect that is what is really deep down behind this. If we can waive the balanced budget for almost any reason that we call a threat to our national security, without the constraints that we have written in section 5, which is what the Dodd amendment would do, then those who want that to happen and want that loophole so that we can waive it any time we want to under almost any circumstances could spend more on liberal spending programs rather than really doing for the military what needs to be done. 
Our amendment requires them to do what is right for the national security interests of this country, if this matter is going to be waived. It requires the President and the Congress to take some responsibility in that matter, and it does not just waive all these obligations that we think have to be there. 
But under the Dodd amendment, they could underfund the military, knowing that during the course of the year they could take any international conflict and use it as a justification to waive the balanced budget amendment. 
In effect, if we pass this amendment by the Senator from Connecticut, those who support it would generate their own crisis by having purposefully underfunded the military. I mean, if we in fact abuse the way the balanced budget amendment would be used, that is what it would amount to under the Dodd amendment. 
Madam President, this sort of gaming of the system shows that the Dodd amendment is a risky gimmick that will endanger both our military readiness and our economic strength. 
I might add that the amendment that will come later on Social Security is even a more risky gimmick that will endanger Social Security for all of our senior citizens because they would take it off the budget so that it does not have to be dealt with not just in times of surplus, but in times of tremendous default and in times when there are not enough moneys there to run it. We have to keep it on budget to keep the pressure on everybody to do what is right to keep Social Security going for our seniors. 
Let me just take a few moments and elaborate on the military readiness issues. 
The Dodd amendment is too vague. It merely acknowledges the status quo--that there exists national security threats that are routinely handled by the readiness components of our defense budget. Its adoption could actually undermine our ability to provide a responsive surge to escalating threats to our vital interests. 
The amendment of the Senator from Connecticut does not acknowledge the differences of national security interests, nor does it tell us what is at stake. It is too broad, and by consequence so vague as to allow exceptions to the balanced budget amendment based on the status quo, day-to-day operation of our defense policy. 
To quote from former Secretary of Defense William Perry:  
Vital U.S. interests can be at risk when the United States or an ally is threatened by conventional military force, economic force, by economic strangulation, or weapons of mass destruction. These threats to vital interests are most likely to arise in a regional conflict and, by definition, may require military intervention. 
Madam President, as you can see, the Dodd amendment would allow the waiver of the balanced budget amendment at almost any time in our country's history where there is any kind of military threat that fits within the broad language that the then Secretary of Defense, in contrast, as seen from the statement, says that vital interests can be placed at risk by threat. And he continues, such threats by our vital interests `may require military intervention.' 
Senate Joint Resolution 1 complies with current defense thinking. It says that when the President takes a step beyond the normal acts of protecting national security interests and places our forces in harm's way, then should Congress, and only then should Congress, consider by majority vote suspending the balanced budget amendment restraints on defense spending. 
My next objection is that military spending is not and was never intended to be the only way to meet national security threats. In fewer words, still, Madam President, the amendment does not acknowledge either the multiple military and nonmilitary strategies that meet our national security requirements, nor does it appear to realize that we employ a military strategy only when diplomatic and other foreign policy remedies fail. 
Finally, the Dodd amendment contradicts and challenges some basic readiness, budgeting and programming concepts that both the President and the Congress support. The Secretary of Defense says, `The number one priority of the Defense Department is maintaining the readiness and sustainability of U.S. forces.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes, I yield if I do not lose my right to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, of course the underlying amendment of the Senator from Connecticut threatens the very purpose of the balanced budget amendment. Even if he does make this small change of adding language that makes the resolution became law, this certainly would improve his amendment. That is a small matter. The reason he would have to do that, if his intention is that the resolution be passed by both bodies and signed by the President, is because he has deleted specifically our requirement that any resolution become law, meaning it passes both Houses and it is signed by the President. 
So there is no other way the court would construe it other than the way I have suggested it. But that is a small matter because Senator Dodd's new amendment, assuming that he modifies his current amendment, clarifies his intent in one regard. He would make it clear that a joint resolution must become law. That would be an improvement. 
But my other criticisms remain. There would be too many instances in which Senate Joint Resolution 1's requirements could be waived. Today, any action by a foreign nation can pose an imminent and serious military threat to our Nation. Under Senator Dodd's amendment, any such action would allow Congress to engage in increased social spending, and waive this balanced budget amendment. 
To me that is ridiculous. It isn't a protection. It is just another way to continue business as usual. I frankly am not for that, and I do not think most others will be either. 
Look closely at the Dodd amendment that allows all spending to increase--not just military spending. The ostensible purpose is to protect us militarily and our national security. But it waives the budget for all spending. It makes one wonder why. And it allows virtually any action by any country--certainly countries like Russia or China--to justify increased social spending. 
I have to admit that my colleagues are ingenious at wanting to keep the status quo going, and that is their right to unbalance the budget and spend and spend and spend so they can go home and claim, `Look at what we are doing for you.' They are putting us into bankruptcy. And all of us are doing it, both parties, without any restraint. Now they want to remove this restraint. To be honest with you, I think basically what people want to do is just keep business as usual. 
Secretary Perry in accepting the Dodd amendment would admit that the readiness principles are wrong that he articulated. For example, he would be saying that current threats are not covered. The Dodd amendment has no plan for a contingency. National security is always a justifiable budget buster regardless of the crisis of the moment. 
Let us just read the language that the Senator would change. The way the original amendment, the underlying amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1 reads, section 5 says, `Congress may waive the provisions of this article for any fiscal year in which a declaration of war is in effect.' That is the same. `The provisions of this article may be waived for any fiscal year in which the United States is engaged in military conflict which causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security and is so declared by a joint resolution adopted by a majority of the whole number of each House which becomes law.' That is what the current amendment says. That is a tremendous protection. Declaration of war or waiver by a joint resolution passed by the whole number, a majority of the whole number of both Houses, meaning a constitutional majority, which becomes law and signed by the President. Under those circumstances this balanced budget amendment can be waived. 
There are those who are strong supporters of the balanced budget amendment which didn't want this language in here. Senator Heflin and a number of us worked this out so that both sides would feel that they are adequately taken care of. But it is no secret. There are a lot of people who do not want this section at all because they believe that a patriotic group of Senators and Congresspeople would naturally waive the balanced budget amendment by a higher vote, by the three-fifths vote necessary to do it to put us into more debt to pay for it. But we have made it a much lesser standard. It will be a constitutional majority required by both Houses. 
Look at the way the distinguished Senator from Connecticut would have this read. `The Congress may waive the provisions of this article for any fiscal year in which a declaration of war is in effect.' `The provisions of this article may be waived for any fiscal year in which the United States is engaged in military conflict which causes' but in which the United States `faces an imminent and serious military threat to national security.' And then he strikes `and is so,' and then just says `as declared by a joint resolution,' period. I imagine he is willing to modify his amendment and add `which becomes law.' The `which becomes law' would make this amendment a little bit better. But, frankly, it doesn't solve the problem of the easy ability anybody would have for anything that can be called `facing an imminent and serious military threat to our national security' which can include almost anything. That would be the easiest way to waive this amendment at any time any social spending becomes the desire of the people and the Congress. And, by the way, that is what is causing our problems for 28 straight years now--social spending. 
I am so afraid I am going to knock these over sometime and squash somebody, and they would squash somebody. It would probably break somebody's leg. I have been told by a number of Senators that we are violating OSHA. Too bad OSHA doesn't have control over this separated power. But there is no other way to show to the American people just how really bad it is--28 straight years of unbalanced budgets. And now we are going to put changes in this amendment that would allow us to go to 29, 30, right up to 68 years, or more. We will never get it under control, if we have amendments like this. So we have to stand up and do what is right.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The Vice President would not have a right to vote 
here, but he doesn't have a right to vote for this amendment either. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is correct, just like a vote for this constitutional amendment excludes the Vice President, and countless other votes exclude the Vice President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. In any event, he would be excluded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Every constitutional amendment that has ever been passed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. On cloture votes; all cloture votes. You will have to have 60 votes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Procedural or not, that is what this vote would be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. That would be both procedural and substantive. Cloture votes are substantive and procedural. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Neither would they be. In other words, what we are doing---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No, you get cloture at 60---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. Every vote where it is not 50-50. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, where the vote is 50-50, where that is required, yes, but we are talking about a constitutional amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me finish. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. In every vote in the House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me finish. I cannot cite a single example in the Senate, but that is irrelevant. The fact is the reason we are writing the constitutional amendment is to provide a means whereby you have to have a constitutional majority, without worrying about the Vice President, who is not a Member of this body other than to preside, if he wants to, and break majority vote ties. We are saying that we need a constitutional majority of at least 51 Senators to resolve this problem, and at least 218 Members of the House. And since it is a constitutional amendment, we would be changing the current method of budgeting to require higher majority votes in order to waive the balanced budget amendment requirements. That is what we are doing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Because I do think I just need to make a couple more comments on the Vice President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Just to make the record. The question does arise, as the Senator phrased, as to how Senate Joint Resolution 1 affects the obligations of the Vice President, as President of the Senate, to vote in case of a tie vote in the Senate. The answer is that a balanced budget amendment does not change the Constitution's basic reliance on simple majority votes or the Vice President's role in casting a vote in those cases where Senators are equally divided. 
Article I, section 3 of the Constitution provides that `The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no vote, unless they be equally divided.' 
By the plain meaning of this provision, the Vice President is not a member of the Senate. He is merely the Presiding Officer, the President of the Senate, a neutral empire, and thus cannot vote or take part in the deliberations of the Senate. And even though our current Vice President is a former member of the Senate, he is no longer a member of the Senate. He is a member of the executive branch. But he does have that function. 
The only exception to this is where there exists a tie vote. In that case to `secure at all times the possibility of a definitive resolution of the body, it is necessary that the Vice President should have only a casting vote.' 
That was taken from Federalist Paper No. 68 written by Hamilton. 
But the situation where the Vice President can break a tie vote only applies to a simple majority vote, the run-of-the-mill ordinary vote of the Senate. It very seldom happens but it can happen under those circumstances. Where the Constitution, however, provides for a supermajority vote, in situations where the Framers of the Constitution feared the passions of the majority rule would retard reasoned deliberation, there really is no occasion for a tie vote, and therefore the Vice President may not vote. 
These include the two-thirds requirement of each House to override a veto. When the President formally rejects legislation passed by both Houses of Congress, the drafters of the Constitution contemplated the simple democratic majoritarian rule does not serve the best interests of this country. A constitutional majority will not even do in that instance. Congress may override the President's veto only by a supermajority vote. 
The two-thirds vote requirement of the Senate to give its advice and consent to treaties and the two-thirds vote requirement of the Senate to convict on impeachment are other examples where the Vice President has absolutely no vote whatsoever. 
I add the votes on cloture. You are going to have at least 60 votes in order to invoke cloture. You could go on I think. 
In each of these cases the Vice President has no role in casting a deciding vote. 
The balanced budget amendment supermajority provisions, whether the three-fifths number of the whole number of each House of Congress--that section 1 waiver to allow outlays to exceed receipts; section 2 waiver to increase the limit on the debt, or the constitutional majority provisions--a majority of the whole number of each House--section 4 requirement to raise revenue, section 5 requirement to waive amendment when the United States is involved in military action that is a threat to national security--would work the same way as the Constitution's other supermajority provisions. 
Because these supermajority provisions require a majority vote of the whole number of each House of Congress, and it is clear that the Vice President is not a Member of either House, these provisions, like the two-thirds vote in the Senate for treaties, is an exception to the simple majority vote general rule that the Vice President may vote in cases of a tie in the Senate. 
Moreover, with a supermajority requirement, a tie vote is meaningless. For instance, 60 votes in the Senate would be required to raise the debt ceiling, where a three-fifths vote is required under section 2 of this amendment, and 51 votes would be needed to raise taxes as required by section 4. A 40 to 40 vote or even a 50 to 50 vote does not meet that requirement. Therefore, the Vice President would have no role in casting a deciding vote. But that does not in any way diminish his constitutional authority. 
Madam President, what we are debating here is very important. What the balanced budget amendment does is establish a constitutional requirement that Congress live within its means, that we quit doing this to America, as represented by these 28 years in a row of unbalanced budgets since 1969. All the supermajority requirements are saying is that if Congress wants to waive the Constitution, a simple majority will not do. You have to have a true majority--in the case of the section 4 requirement to raise revenue and section 5 requirement to waive the amendment when the United States is involved in a military action that is a threat to national security--or a supermajority in the case of the section 1 waiver of the balanced budget requirement or the section 2 waiver 
of the debt limit. And every Senator and every Congressman must be on record and thereby accountable to his or her constituency. 
Now, I have at least 3 or 4 hours more that I could go on on this subject.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. All right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-30-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-31-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That's right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-32-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Other than the ones I have listed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-33-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-34-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. When we sent troops to Saudi Arabia? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-35-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, we already had had attacks by the Iraqis and we were there to protect our people. I would say that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-36-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. One thing about lend-lease that I felt was very important is that during that period of time if we had any deficits at all, they were very minor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-37-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Before that they were minor in comparison to what we have today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-38-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure, we were. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-39-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. They were moving forces and materiel and---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-40-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It may not be, until we shot the first shot, but the fact is that is what happened, and when it did happen, I cannot imagine either House of Congress not voting to provide a constitutional authority to provide whatever help the military needed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-41-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. You don't think moving billions of dollars worth of military force into the Persian Gulf---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-42-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That might be an argument in this body. If it is, then those who want to increase military spending or waive this budget, all they have to do is get a constitutional majority to do so. We are just saying it should not be easy to waive the constitutional amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-43-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Hardly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-44-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Hardly. What we are saying is if it's an actual conflict and something that deserves the United States of America risking its soldiers and its young men and women, then the President ought to declare a war or come up here and say, `I want a constitutional vote to support me.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-45-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Not when it comes to our young men and women. Give me a break. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-46-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. True, and those debates---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-47-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could regain my control of the floor? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-48-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We are saying precisely the opposite. We are 
saying to keep this country secure, to have this country remain the greatest country in the world, quit spending it into bankruptcy and put some fiscal mechanism in the Constitution that requires us to quit spending it into bankruptcy. If we want to have a strong military, then, by gosh, let us be willing to stand up and vote for it. 
I have to tell you, this Senator for 21 years has been a strong supporter of a strong national security. I voted for virtually everything that would help this country and protect our young men and women. I think, in a time of imminent threat to this country, I have never seen a case since I have been here where liberals, moderates and conservatives alike would reject protecting our young men and women. We are not going to see it in that case. 
But I will tell you this, there is no justification whatsoever to put into this amendment the changes that the distinguished Senator from Connecticut wants, which would allow the amendment to be waived for almost any circumstances and, frankly, waived for what? Because they are going to spend more money on the military? Give me a break. It is going to be so they can continue spending the way they always have, so they can continue to build this mountain of paper, of national debt that we have had for 28 straight years, and out of the last 66 years, 58 years of debt. 
That is what we are trying to stop. If we want a strong military, if we want strong national security, if we want to protect ourselves from imminent threats, if we want to protect ourselves from war, if we want to protect ourselves from being invaded, if we want to protect ourselves and our allies, then by gosh we better get spending under control. And this balanced budget amendment is about the only thing the vast majority of us in Congress right now can think of that will help us to do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-49-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. What the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Connecticut would do is it would just plain make it so anybody could waive the balanced budget amendment for any reason at any time. And I guarantee it will not be waived to increase military spending. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-50-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am not getting emotional. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-51-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I read that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-52-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I don't think so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-53-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No, I don't think it would. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-54-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I don't think a majority would vote to do that. But I am saying that is what this amendment would allow a majority to do, a simple majority. We are saying that is wrong. We have provided enough of a safety hatch to protect the country the way the amendment is written. If we adopt the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Connecticut, my goodness gracious, we could have the balanced budget amendment waived for a year any time we want to and it would just nullify the effectiveness of the 
balanced budget amendment. 
I do not see anything wrong with the President either declaring war or coming up here to make a case he needs more money for the military, but he or she ought to come up here---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-55-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No, I am not yielding here. I want to finish my comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-56-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will yield to my colleague, but I would like to be able to at least finish a sentence now and then, or at least once in a while. 
I think it is very important that Presidents make their case, and I think Presidents can make their case, whoever the future Presidents would be. I think we would be very loathe to reject a President's case that the national security is being threatened. I cannot imagine the Congress doing that, to be honest with you, since the Second World War. Up to then we kind of blithely went along, acting like nothing is ever going to happen because we are way over here. This is now a very small world, and our country knows we have to back keeping ourselves strong because we are, frankly, the bulwark for freedom all over the world. 
One thing I really don't think we should do, and I think a vast majority in this body will also not think we should do, is to make it possible to waive this amendment at the mere majority vote of some future Congress, just because somebody alleges, through a resolution, that there is some imminent threats. 
I yield to my colleague from Idaho.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-57-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to yield for a question, but could I yield on your time?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-58-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-59-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, my colleague, as I can see, feels very deeply about his position. I am not casting aspersions on him. I know he is very sincere in what he is doing here today, but all we are saying is unless the President declares a war, which he has in his amendment, that this article can't be waived for a fiscal year, for any fiscal year unless the United States is `engaged in military conflict which causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security and is so declared by a joint resolution adopted by a majority of the whole number of each House, which becomes law.' 
If we take what the distinguished Senator from Connecticut wants, then it would be a tremendous loophole. It would allow people who are not as sincere as he is to come in here and waive, on simple majority vote, the whole balanced budget amendment for almost any reason at all it will ruin our chance for fiscal responsibility. 
The Senator from Connecticut is confusing the question of congressional authorization of military action with spending measures. The balanced budget amendment has no effect on the ability of Congress to approve actions like Panama. It has no effect at all. What the balanced budget amendment does require is that when it comes to paying for those actions, that we act responsibly and only waive the amendment in the case of a declaration of war or if we have a three-fifths vote of both bodies to do so. It is just that simple. 
Or, if we actually are `engaged in a military conflict which causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security and is so declared by a joint resolution adopted by a majority of the whole number of each House,' in other words, by a constitutional majority, that is all this amendment does. 
I think to a degree, the distinguished Senator from Connecticut is mixing the President's Commander in Chief authority to act with congressional authority to provide resources. The Commander in Chief can act. There is nothing that stops the Commander in Chief from acting, and if the moneys are there, he can act in ways that utilize more money. But the fact of the matter is, if the moneys are not there, he or she is going to have to come up here and make a case, and I can't imagine where there is an imminent and serious military threat to national security that the Congress will not provide the necessary votes. We do not challenge the President's authority. Rather, the balanced budget amendment opponents resist congressional control over all spending, including defense, and that is really what is the thrust of this amendment, in the eyes of many. 
I respect my colleague from Connecticut. Yes, I get a little excited about these kind of amendments, too. The whole purpose of a balanced budget amendment is to give us some mechanism to try and stop this charade, and, frankly, I think most people in America, if they really look at it, become very cynical about Congress, because they see this charade that's been caused over 28 straight years now. They see us trying to find every way we can to spend more and more. Some are so cynical that they believe people around here spend so they can keep themselves in office and go home, beat their breasts, and say, `Look what I have done for you.' They never say `with your own money, your own borrowed money.' 
We are trying to stop this charade. We are trying to at least put some dents in it, and the balanced budget amendment might do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-60-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I think maybe we spent enough time on this. I would like to spend a few minutes replying to Senator Byrd, who I respect deeply and who is one of the people I most admire in this body. He spoke for about an hour and a half, an hour and 40 minutes this morning in a very intelligent and eloquent way, but I think there are a number of things about his remarks that do need to be clarified. 
Like I say, the text of section 1 of this amendment before the body is modest in length. It is very significant. It is language that has been worked out over many years in a bipartisan, bicameral way. Constitutional amendments are of great importance, and I would like to just take a few minutes to walk through the provisions of the balanced budget amendment and discuss how they would cure our so-called addiction to debt. 
The core provision of Senate Joint Resolution 1 is contained in section 1, which establishes, as a fiscal norm, the concept of a balanced budget amendment. That section mandates that: 
Total outlays for any fiscal year shall not exceed total receipts for that year, unless three-fifths of the whole number of each House of Congress shall provide by law for a specific excess of outlays over receipts by a rollcall vote. 
This section does not require a particular process the Congress must follow in order to achieve a balanced budget. There are many equitable means of reaching that goal. Each program will have to compete on its own for the resources available. Thus, the balanced budget amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, does not dictate any particular fiscal strategy upon Congress. 
Section 1 also provides reasonable flexibility by providing for a waiver of the balanced budget amendment. In order to invoke this waiver, both Houses of Congress must provide by law for a specific default which must pass by a three-fifths rollcall vote. This careful balancing of incentives creates enough flexibility for Congress to deal with economic or other emergencies. However, the waiver will not be easy when a future Congress is simply trying to avoid the tough choices necessary to balance the budget. Many supporters of the balanced budget amendment have suggested that in the future it might be in the Nation's interest to plan to run a reasonable surplus to ensure easier compliance with its terms and to be able to begin to pay down the debt with any surplus funds. 
Another important aspect of this section is that in a year that the Congress chooses to waive the balanced budget rule, it must do so `for a specific excess of outlays over receipts . . .' That means that the maximum amount of deficit spending to be allowed must be clearly identified. By forcing Congress to identify and confront a particular deficit, this clause will prevent a waiver for a specific purpose, such as an economic downturn, from opening the door to a whole range of deficit-funded spending. 
Another key feature of section 1 is that it requires any waiver to be by rollcall vote. A rollcall vote will be required to ensure the required three-fifths vote has been recorded so that the American people will be able to see who stood for fiscal responsibility and who for adding more debt on our children's and grandchildren's heads. The balanced budget amendment will increase accountability in Government. Gone will be the days of late-night unrecorded voice votes to spend away America's future. If there is to be a deficit, the American people will know who wanted it and why they wanted it. They can make their own judgment as to who has the right priorities. 
Section 2 provides that: 
The limit on the debt of the United States held by the public shall not be increased, unless three-fifths of the whole number of each House shall provide by law for such an increase by a rollcall vote. 
So that is pretty clear. Section 2 works in tandem with section 1 to enforce the balanced budget amendment. Section 2 focuses public attention on the magnitude of Government indebtedness. 
To run a deficit, the Federal Government must borrow funds to cover its obligations. If borrowing will go beyond a previously enacted statutory limit, the balanced budget amendment will require a three-fifths vote in order to raise that limit. 
This section acts as an incentive to not only balance the budget in good times, but to start paying down the existing debt that is so high now that it is mind-boggling. By doing so, Congress will provide more flexibility for itself by opening more breathing room between the actual debt and the debt limit. This is, in truth, what we should have been doing for years. 
We hear so much about the recent and temporary decline in the annual deficit. It is amazing to me that some people consider a smaller increase in the debt a reason to celebrate. I do not think it is. The debt is still increasing. We must balance the budget. It is over $100 billion this year, that deficit. 
We must balance the budget and stop increasing the debt at all. Indeed, our goal should be to run a surplus during prosperous times so that we can start paying down the debt and meet threats to our national security. 
I wonder how a credit card company would respond if I told them that although my debt was more than three times my annual income, I overspent by less this year than I did last year. They would sure as heck cut me off, as they would any of us. 
Section 3 provides: 
Prior to each fiscal year, the President shall transmit to the Congress a proposed budget for the United States Government for that fiscal year, in which total outlays do not exceed total receipts. 
That is important. While this may not seem important to some people, consider how long it has been since we had a balanced budget--28 solid years now. These are all unbalanced budgets for 28 years. That is why this stack of books next to me is so high. 
The President's budget does not balance this year either. He claims it will get us to balance by 2002. I hope we can work with him to do that. But without a balanced budget amendment, I fear it is not going to happen. If you look at his budget, 75 percent of the cuts are in the last 2 years, when he is out of office. So it is pretty clear to me that it is not as sincere an attempt as I would like to see it. The President understands this game. His budget, like I say, saved 75 percent of the cuts for only after he leaves office--another plan to leave it to the future and let the next guy pay the bill. 
It is time for us to break our habit of deficit by default. People propose deficit spending in Washington without a second thought. I believe that by the simple action of having the President propose a budget that balances in that fiscal year, we will go a long way towards changing the debt-happy attitudes in this town and that, in turn, will help us stay in balance after we reach it. 
Section 4 requires approval by a majority of the whole number of each House by a rollcall vote for any bill to increase revenue. This will provide a responsible and balanced amount of tax limitation and improve congressional accountability for revenue measures. It is important to stop borrowing, but to unduly borrow burdens hard-working Americans and would also be deleterious to the Nation and to its citizens. 
Section 4 will help us to curb spending and taxing by requiring a majority of the whole Congress, not just those voting at a given time, and by forcing Members of Congress to go on record with a rollcall vote. These reforms are a crucial part of putting our fiscal house in order. 
Section 5 guarantees--and I will not read it; we have been reading that--but it guarantees that Congress will retain maximum flexibility in responding to clear national security crises such as a declared war or imminent military threat to national security. 
This section provides a balance between the need for flexibility to react to a military threat to the Nation and the need to keep the balanced budget amendment strong. Clearly, if the 
United States is involved in a declared war, the situation is serious and the waiver of the balanced budget rule should not be overly difficult. Unless clear situations, but still in instances of military conflict, the threshold is slightly higher. 
In order to waive the balanced budget rule Congress must pass the waiver by a majority of the whole number of both Houses and it must become law, must be signed by the President. This prevents the balanced budget amendment from being too easily waived. 
Thus, taken together, section 5 allows the country to defend itself but also protects against a waiver that is borne more of a desire to avoid the tough choices needed to balance the budget than of military need. 
Section 6 states:  
The Congress shall enforce and implement this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely on estimates of outlays and receipts. 
This section makes explicit what is implicit. The Congress has a positive obligation to fashion legislation to enforce this article. Section 6 underscores Congress' continuing role in implementing the balanced budget requirement. This provision precludes any interpretation of the amendment that would result in a shift in the balance of powers among branches of Government. 
We have heard from time to time claims by opponents of the balanced budget constitutional amendment that the President or the courts will become unduly involved in enforcing the amendment. This section, together with the plethora of legal precedent and documents, shows that such claims are misplaced. 
This provision also gives Congress appropriate flexibility with which to fashion the implementing legislation by permitting reliance on estimates. Since obviously no one can predict the future with absolute certainty, we must rely on estimates when we plan budgets. This provision recognizes that we must rely on estimates to make the constitutional amendment workable. 
Section 7 defines `receipts,' `outlays.' 
Section 7 defines receipts and outlays. Receipts do not include money from borrowing--it is high time we stopped thinking of borrowing as a normal source of income. Outlays do not include money used to repay debt principle. This will further encourage future Congresses to start to pay down our mammoth debt. 
Perhaps more than any other section, opponents try to change this one most often. By altering the definitions of receipts and outlays they know they could tear a giant loophole in the balanced budget amendment. So they come forth with a parade of exemptions, for every interest under the sun, and each would provide those who are addicted to debt a way to get their fiscal fix. We must not allow it. The supporters of honest, fiscal responsibility should not be distracted from their goal of balancing the budget in spite of the desires to respond to all manner of sympathetic political causes. 
Finally, section 8 states that the amendment will take effect in 2002 or 2 years after it is adopted, whichever is later. This will allow Congress a period to consider and adopt the necessary procedures to implement the amendment, and to begin the process of balancing the budget. 
In conclusion, Mr. President, let me reiterate that the balanced budget amendment is the only way we are going to be able to balance the budget. We have tried statutes, they don't work. We have tried mustering the political will, it hasn't worked. And we have tried just letting the debt grow, that can't work. We need to end our cycle of debt with a hard and fast rule, that cannot be easily discarded when it becomes inconvenient. We need the balanced budget amendment. 
Mr. President, let me respond to a few charges which have been leveled against the amendment. 
Some suggest a conflict between the general requirement of balance and the allowance for a waiver. 
Allowing for a waiver by vote is not inconsistent with the purpose of Senate Joint Resolution 1, which is to make it harder to borrow as a general matter, yet provide flexibility to borrow in case of need demonstrated by the appropriate consensus. 
Section 6 of Senate Joint Resolution 1 provides that `Congress shall enforce and implement this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely on estimates of outlays and receipts.' To be sure, reliance on good faith estimates is necessary to make the balanced budget amendment workable. No budget cannot be balanced to the penny; particularly the $1.6 trillion Federal budget. 
Opponents of the balanced budget amendment contend that this reliance on estimates is improper because CBO budgetary estimates are not always precisely accurate, specifically if you compare the estimates for the beginning of the fiscal year with what the actual numbers are at the end of the fiscal year. It seems to me that by definition an estimate is not necessarily going to match up to the exact figures at the end of the year. But that is no reason to stop using estimates. They are a reasonable and logical way to approach the uncertainty inherent in trying to predict the future. 
The balanced budget amendment will still function smoothly even given this lack of absolute certainty at the beginning of the year. If, over the course of the fiscal year outlays exceed receipts in a way not previously anticipated, we have two choices. We can either pass a reconciliation bill to bring the budget back into balance, or, if necessary, we can waive the balanced budget rule for that year as provided for in the text of the amendment. 
Further, under the Budget Act, both OMB--for the President's budget estimate--and CBO by law must provide for three budgetary estimates: one at the beginning of the fiscal year, the second as a mid-course correction, and the last before the end of the fiscal year. 
Thus, there exists a statutory fine-tuning process that assures a degree of accuracy--not perfect accuracy--but one that provides for workable budgetary estimates. If we see during the course of the year that our estimates are going to be off, we have time to make the necessary corrections. 
I believe that reliance on estimates is both reasonable and sound. If we did not permit a reliance on estimates, I have little doubt that someone on the other side would be on the Senate floor arguing that the balanced budget amendment would be unworkable because it does not let us rely on estimates. 
The bottom line is that at the beginning of the year, we have no crystal ball, only reasonable estimates to work from. The balanced budget amendment accepts that plain truth and accordingly provides for the use of estimates. We use budget estimates in Congress every day. The President just sent a budget that he claims will balance by 2002. That is an estimate. We will pass a budget resolution here in the Senate, and that will rely on estimates. The balanced budget amendment merely continues this time-honored, logical, and reasonable practice. 
If the opponents of the balanced budget amendment succeed, we will be condemning our children to even higher debt, even higher taxes, and even lower wages, by any estimate. I hope that everyone in the Senate will keep that in mind as this debate continues. 
The Senator raises two points that were discussed in the committee report that accompanied Senate Joint Resolution 1. While I understand the concerns, I believe that they are based on a misreading of the report. 
The report allows that, `Congress could decide that a deficit caused by a temporary, self-correcting drop in receipts or increase in outlays during the fiscal year would not violate the article.' This does not mean that the budget will be out of balance at the end of the year. It simply states that the budget need not be in perfect balance every second of the year. And there is nothing in the text of the balanced budget amendment to indicate that it should. However, the temporary condition described in the committee report must be self-correcting by the conclusion of the fiscal year, in order to avoid a three-fifths vote. I see no harm in allowing this flexibility during the course of the year. 
Additionally, the report states that Congress could permit negligible deviations be made up in the next year. Again, this is not nearly as remarkable as some have made it out to be. We all know that sometimes the very last few outlays and receipts of the year are not known until after the fiscal year is over. The balanced budget amendment neither requires nor envisions that this logistical truth become a problem. In such an event, the Congress could provide itself with the flexibility to make up any negligible deficits to be made up the next year. What is crucial is that the funds must be made up, thus keeping us in balance. It simply would not make any sense to bring the Government to a halt over a 4-cent deficit. And the balanced budget amendment does not require that we do. That is all that this statement in the committee report is saying. 
Some opponents claim that the BBA is too inflexible. It has been repeatedly referred to as a `straightjacket.' On the other hand, we also hear that the BBA is not stringent enough. In fact, the balanced budget amendment strikes just the right balance between strict provisions to counter the strong incentives in Congress to deficit spend and the reasonable flexibility necessary for the amendment to function in the real world. 
What we need to do is focus on the problem--our national debt is over $5.3 trillion and climbing. Only the balanced budget amendment will put us in a position to end that climb. 
Meeting the requirements of the balanced budget will require a heightened vigilance of Congress; it will require that the Federal Government be more aware of and concerned about our borrowing and spending habits. No, it will not be as easy as simply spending and then borrowing if we did not plan well. It will require that we plan better and be better stewards over that plan. I think that is appropriate, given the importance of the problem, and of our duty. 
The point has also been raised that Congress will not know precisely if we are in balance of the size of the deficit to the dollar before the end of the year. That is why we have the workable flexibility of relying on estimates, yet we will need to plan and administer the process with care. 
Congress may and should shoot for a small surplus to avoid a last minute unforseen deficit, and if the estimates near the end of the year suggest we will run a deficit, we can approve a deficit at the high end of the estimates. If we approve an estimate that is slightly larger than we needed, it is not like we actually spent the money. 
While some may say that relying on estimates creates a loophole, I submit that the risks of this provision are substantially less than our current process of simply spending and borrowing as a matter of course.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-61-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would on the Senator's time. I think our time is running down. I know some others want to speak. I would be happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-62-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, how much time is remaining for both sides? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-63-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will yield on that basis, that this---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-64-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would like to. Listen, my friend from West Virginia, I am happy to accommodate him any time I can. I know how sincere he is. I know the efforts that he put forth this morning in making his eloquent statement. I am happy to yield, if he desires me to, at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-65-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Under those circumstances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-66-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am undertaking to explain some of them. I believe that I will do so some more tomorrow or when we get back from recess. But I am making an effort to do some explanation here today. And, hopefully, I am explaining away some of the difficulties that the distinguished Senator has raised. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-67-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will say that I will make more specific responses later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-68-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I believe any reasonable interpretation of section 6 knows that there is no way--and the distinguished Senator was right when he made the comment earlier in the day--that there is no way of absolutely being accurate on estimates. We have to do the best we can to estimate the outlays and receipts at the beginning or at some time during each year for the next succeeding year. There is just no question about it, because there is no way we can absolutely predict what will happen in the future. But I think through implementing legislation we can resolve the budgetary problems with regard to estimating outlays and receipts in a way that would be workable. And we would have to do so under this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-69-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Under the same terms I would, on the Senator's time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-70-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think the terms of the committee report should be given the ordinary dictionary meaning. I think that is the way we would have to do it. But Members of Congress would be responsible. Members would define them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-71-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We are today, of all of the estimates. We will have to be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-72-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Or above target? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-73-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me answer the first question. Here are 28 years of similar inaccurate estimates. Wait, wait, let me make my point. Here are 28 years of missed estimates. We have been wrong every time in 28 years and we have been wrong because these are all unbalanced budgets. 
I agree with the Senator on the second question. Yes, from 1980 to 1996 we have been wrong every time on estimates. On a couple of occasions not very wrong, but during all of that period, the whole 28 years since 1968 and during all of the period between 1980 and 1996 we did not function pursuant to a balanced budget amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-74-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could finish my remarks. 
Under the Budget Act, CBO and OMB give estimates each year. CBO is the Congressional Budget Office; OMB is the Office of Management and Budget. They correct the estimates twice during the year as they acquire new data. Congress ultimately has to decide how you balance the differences. 
Now, we should plan to get above balance, as the usual course. Most years we should try to stay above balance with regard to estimates and try to stay on the course by amended estimates through the year. That is what we will have to do. I think the implementing legislation will do that. 
Let me make another comment, and I will turn back to my dear colleague. Meeting the requirements of the balanced budget amendment will require a heightened vigilance of Congress. It is apparent it will make us get tough on budgets. During those years we had five different statutory balanced budget approaches that led us to that morass and this morass. What we are saying is that the balanced budget amendment will require us to have a heightened vigilance in the Congress. It will require that the Federal Government be more aware of and concerned about borrowing and spending habits. No, it will not be as easy as simply spending and then borrowing if we do not plan. It will require that we plan better and that we use better standards in that planning. I think it is appropriate, given the importance of this problem and the duty we owe to our country. 
Now, I think what I am saying is, I agree with my colleague. He makes a very compelling point here that we have not been very accurate in estimating receipts, in estimating outlays and receipts through the 16 years, although I say through 28 years, or 58 of the last 66 years, we have run unbalanced budgets. One reason is we 
have relied on statutory schemes that have been circumvented in every one of those years, none of which have really worked. The distinguished Senator, by the way, to his credit, pointed out that some of those statutory schemes at the time would not work. I believe some of the rest of us felt that way as well. 
What we are saying is from 1997 on, or whenever this amendment is ratified and becomes law and part of the Constitution, by the year 2002 on, and really before that if we can get it ratified before then, we are going to no longer have the luxury of these inaccurate estimates. We will have to do a better job. We will have to be more vigilant. We are going to have to heighten that vigilance, and we will have to meet the requirement of a balanced budget or face the music of having to stand up and vote for higher deficits or more spending by supermajority votes. 
I think comparing this time and saying, because we have been inaccurate during times when statutory methods have not worked, with post-balanced-budget-amendment-enactment times where we will have to be more vigilant and we will have to come up with a way of being accurate during the year--right, OMB and CBO now only check that twice. We are going to have to do a much better job. 
Now, can we be absolutely accurate? Everybody knows we cannot. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-75-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. There is no way you can. I do not want to keep going with this system and then this system when we have an alternative that really would put some fiscal discipline in the Constitution that makes us get serious. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-76-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield under the same set of circumstances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-77-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. You mean under the new constitutional system if this becomes---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-78-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me answer that question. You have raised a point that Congress will not know precisely if we are in balance or a deficit to the exact dollar before the end of each year. That is why we have the workable flexibility of relying on estimates. Yet we will need a plan to administer that process with care. 
Now, Congress may, and I think this would become the norm, instead of now just planning on deficits, Congress may and should plan for a small surplus to avoid a last-minute, unforeseen deficit. If the estimates near the end of the year suggest we will run a deficit, we can approve a deficit at the high end of the estimates. If we approve an estimate that is slightly larger than is needed, it is not like actually spending the money. While some may say relying on estimates creates a loophole, I submit that the risks are substantially less than our current process of spending and borrowing, 
and that is exhibited by these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. That has been the matter of course. I think we have to change course, and I think the normalcy--I think the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, if I know him as well as I think I do, would be leading the fight to have at least small surpluses each year to take care of any fluctuations that might occur. I don't think he would permit us to get into this mess, which neither he nor I have been able to prevent under the current statutory scheme. But under a balanced budget amendment, we are going to have to be real. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-79-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This amendment does not mandate a balanced budget as the only option. This amendment requires us to move toward a balanced budgets, because it requires a balanced budget or supermajority votes if we are going to run deficits. So the pressures---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-80-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could be allowed to finish. So the pressures will be on us to try to have surpluses rather than continue to spend, because sooner or later we have to face the music. Let me make this point. The accuracy of estimates is self-correcting, because OMB and CBO must, by law, correct their estimates twice a year, under current practices. Usually, the original estimates are always off by OMB and CBO. Under the current system, there is not nearly as much pressure to be accurate as there will be under the constitutional amendment system, if we pass this by the requisite two-thirds vote of both Houses and it is ratified by three-quarters of the States. So what if CBO and OMB correct it? The balanced budget amendment does nothing to correct that procedure. It puts pressure on them to, maybe, do more than twice a year corrections. 
The balanced budget amendment actually will further budgetary discipline. Congress is the one that must always enforce the system. Every one of us take an oath to uphold the Constitution. If this becomes part of the Constitution, we will have to live up to that oath. We will have to devise a system that really does it. We will still operate under a statutory system of implementing the constitutional rule. We can't order perfection; not even we can order perfection. But the balanced budget amendment will put the appropriate amount of pressure on Congress, which is not there now, as easily can be seen by the Senator's very important chart. It will put the pressure on Congress to ensure truthfulness. 
Public reactions will punish those who act cowardly. 
Everybody will know because we will always have to vote. We can't do it on voice votes anymore, or hide it in the dead of the night, which I know Senator Byrd understands well and does not approve of, as I don't. We would all have to stand up and vote, and the public will know who has voted which way. They are going to expect us to do a far better job than that which has done and than these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. 
Let us be honest. There is no way anybody can absolutely, accurately tell what the outlays and receipts are going to be in advance. When we say `total outlays of any fiscal year shall not exceed,' it has to be written that way because that is the force that says, Congress, your estimates better be good, a lot better than these statutory estimates we have had in the past, because then we will be under a constraint to balance the budget, or vote by a supermajority vote not to balance it. That is the difference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-81-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. And vice versa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-82-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It doesn't--it's not the only option. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-83-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It doesn't. We can do whatever we want to. We just have to vote to have an unbalanced budget by the required supermajority or margin. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-84-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield on that point? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-85-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I appreciate that, to make a comment. I believe there is no question that they would do a better job, because there won't be the same number of games played on budget matters if everybody knows that we have the constraint of either balancing the budget, or voting on a supermajority not to balance it. We all have to face our electorate. Right now, we do a lot of these things for by voice votes and other shenanigans that help to cause these things. When I say `we,' I would rather say `they,' because I try not to, and I know the Senator tries not to. But it's apparent in that our current system isn't working. I think your chart makes one of the best arguments for the balanced budget amendment of any chart we have had up here in this whole debate, because it shows that what we are doing right now, and what we have done for 28 solid years, doesn't work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-86-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We are not. If we pass this through the Senate--hopefully, within the next week or so--by the requisite two-thirds vote, and it passes through the House by the requisite two-thirds vote, that is a notice to everybody in these two bodies that we better start hustling to get a real balanced budget by 2002, where all of us know that the only part of the President's budget that really counts is next year's budget. 
It is not the budget as extrapolated out to 2002, especially since 75 percent of it is balanced in the last 2 years after he leaves office. No, it is this next year, and each year thereafter. If we passed this and it is submitted to the States, I can't predict what the States would do. I believe they would ratify this amendment if we have the guts to pass it through both Houses of Congress. And if they ratify this amendment, then, by gosh, I have to tell you that I think the game will be over. We will not be able to do this anymore. There will have to be rollcall votes under the same terms. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-87-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Certainly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-88-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think it takes guts both ways. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-89-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We will not be able to get around these things with voice votes. We will have to stand up and vote by rollcall. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-90-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. But we don't, and there is nothing that requires us to do so, necessarily. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-91-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me answer the distinguished Senator's question. It is a good question. 
The reason that I think we will be more accurate afterwards is because the incentives will switch. The incentives will switch because unless we balance the budget year after year and start working toward surpluses and not working on deficits, we are going to be in real trouble constitutionally, and we all know that. There will no longer be the game that occurred during the 1980 and 1996 years, as shown by the Senator's very interesting chart. I think that makes one of the best cases I have ever seen for the balanced budget amendment, because the current system is not working. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-92-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Always. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-93-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think the Senator is very logical. But he also has to allow the logic to take into account that Congress may, as I said before, and should shoot for a small surplus--the incentives will be to have surpluses to avoid a last-minute unforeseen deficit. And if the estimates near the end of the year suggest that we are going to run a deficit, then it would be a simple matter for us to approve a deficit at the high end of the estimates. If we approve an estimated deficit that is slightly larger than we need, it is not like we actually spent the money. 
Again, I will say some may say that relying on estimates creates a loophole. But there is no other workable way to do it. I submit that the risks that might arise from those provisions in the constitutional amendment are substantially less than our current process, which is clearly not working, of simply spending and borrowing with no restraints whatsoever. 
I go back to my point. The distinguished Senator may be right in this regard. Perhaps Senators should not come out here and say, `This is going to always make us balance the budget.' I think, more accurately, it should be said that the incentives will be toward balancing the budget, because you will have supermajority votes of three-fifths in order to run deficits, or you will have to have constitutional majorities to increase taxes, which means at least 51 Senators would have to vote for it, and at least 218 Members of the House. That puts pressure on Members of both parties to be accurate, and it puts pressure on them to try to get surpluses rather than deficits. It puts pressure on them in writing implementing legislation to make sure you have legislation that really does work rather than the five failed plans that we have had since 1978, none of which have worked. My friend and colleague knows that. I don't know of anybody more intelligent and more concerned about these matters than the distinguished Senator from West Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-94-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If I could just finish this one sentence, but I have to say that his chart makes my case better than I have made it. I congratulate him for it, and I am grateful that he has put the chart up, because I don't know how anybody can argue for the current system when you look at that chart. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-95-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Of course. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-96-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Frankly, I think if you have the incentives to produce more accurate estimates of receipts and outlays, there will be an incentive to have the top line have the bars going up every time, where right now we do not have that incentive. We have every incentive to just spend today. There is no restraint on spending whatsoever. The balanced budget amendment would not mandate that you balance the budget if a supermajority is willing to vote not to, but it does change the incentive so that literally you will not want to go into deficit because sooner or later you are going to have to pay the piper under that amendment. Again, I think the Senator's chart makes my case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-97-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I do not think I need the Senator's chart to make the case that our country is in trouble, that we are not doing what is right, that we are continuing to spend us into bankruptcy. And even though there are arguments made that we are only going to have a $107 billion deficit in 1997, that is still a deficit of over $100 billion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-98-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Because I believe Senators will live up to the constitutional mandate and the oath of office that they take to do what is right, where at this particular point there is no constitutional mandate to live within budgetary constraints, and it is apparent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-99-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, there was not---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-100-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Although I tend to share the Senator's view on the line-item veto, I think the Senator would have to admit there is a question whether that is going to be judged constitutional or not. If we pass a balanced budget amendment, it will become an official part of the Constitution, which is a considerably different situation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-101-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Senator Simon thinks so. One reason why he---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-102-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I understand. What Senator Simon argued last year as the leading proponent of this amendment was that he felt there would be a greater propensity to increase taxes to solve these problems. I have to say that I do not believe that is so, but that is what he felt. I do not think that is so. I think it would be very difficult to get constitutional majorities to increase taxes except where they are clearly needed to be increased, and that is why we put in a constitutional majority. Now, it is no secret, and my friend knows this, that there are those on my side who do not think that is adequate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-103-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Do not think that is adequate. They want a three-fifths majority before you can increase taxes. But the reason we have a constitutional majority is because my friends on the Democratic side would not agree with the three-fifths majority. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-104-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Would not agree that it should be a three-fifths majority to increase taxes. I happen to believe that this has to 
be a bipartisan amendment. It is even though there are, as a percentage, less Democrats supporting it than Republicans. But Democrats have helped to formulate this amendment, and I have to give credit to those who are standing here with us. I think they have guts to stand up under the circumstances and vote for this amendment, as they should. 
Now, that does not mean that those who vote against it do not have guts, too, because there is a price that will be paid for voting against this amendment. We all understand that. And let me just say this. I happen to believe that the distinguished Senator from West Virginia has never lacked intestinal fortitude. In fact, I have been through a lot of experiences here that prove that as a matter of fact to me. I could not have more respect for anybody than I do for him as a U.S. Senator. 
But again, I think he makes our case. I think these 28 unbalanced budget volumes make our case. I think it is apparent our system is not working. I think if we keep going this way, our children and grandchildren's futures are gone. I know the distinguished Senator is a great family man. I know that he loves his children and grandchildren, as I do mine. We are expecting our 16th and 17th grandchildren within 2 weeks, Elaine and I. I want them to have a future as we have had. But right now with what is happening in accordance with the chart of the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, it is pretty apparent their future is being bartered away because we are unwilling to make the tough choices. I would lots rather have the balanced budget amendment helping us to estimate receipts and outlays than to have this system estimate them, I will tell you that right now. And it is a better system to have a balanced budget amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-105-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. You do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-106-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, I have to ask the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, if this balanced budget amendment passes, as much as he wishes that it would not, and it is ratified by the States, would the Senator from West Virginia, once it is placed in the Constitution, not do his level best to comply with the constitutional requirement, if the amendment is adopted, to meet these estimates that are in there, as he suggested that I would do my duty under the Constitution? I think what I am saying is this: Both charts that the Senator has put up, show that the current system is not working. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-107-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The reason I point out the current system is not working is because there are not the same pressures to make it work that there would be under a balanced budget amendment. 
Second, if we have these wild fluctuations under the balanced budget amendment, there is going to be an awful lot of heck to pay to our voting populace, because they are going to hold us responsible for these wild fluctuations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-108-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. They are not doing it now because they do not know who is responsible for them. If we have to stand up and vote and make supermajority votes to spend and borrow more, then they will know who is doing it to them. If we have to make a constitutional majority to increase taxes, they will know who is doing it to them. 
I have to say, if we do not, as a congressional body, have our CBO do better numbers, and the OMB as the executive body do better numbers, then there are going to be changes that will get them to where they have to do better numbers. 
Will they always be accurate? There is no way we will always be completely and absolutely accurate.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-109-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure, under the same circumstances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-110-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am sorry, I missed the question. Excuse me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-111-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, let me put it this way. I don't have to ask that question. I know the distinguished Senator from West Virginia would. But I asked it rhetorically because I know that the distinguished Senator from West Virginia would do all in his power to live up to the Constitution, even though he disagreed with the provision of it, once it is part of the Constitution. As would I. 
And, frankly, I think that he is not alone. I think there are as many as 535 others in Congress who would, likewise, try to live up to the constitutional amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-112-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. I will be happy to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-113-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just respond to that. Even, in spite of the reductions in deficit that have occurred over the last 4 years after the enactment of one of the largest tax increases in history--some on our side say the largest tax increase in history; it is debatable, but it is one of the two largest tax increases in history, both of which, I think, were motivated by Members on the other side of the aisle--we are still in hundred-plus billion dollar deficits, going up to $188 billion and on up beyond that by the year 2002. 
The fact of the matter is, if it was up to the distinguished Senator from West Virginia and the Senator from Utah, we would have the will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-114-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I was saying, if it was up to the Senator from West Virginia and the Senator from Utah, I believe we would have the will to do what is right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-115-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just finish. But the problem is, it is not up to just the two of us. It has been up to everybody in Congress for 28 years of unbalanced budgets. I know that people do not like these two stacks because they are embarrassing. It is embarrassing to me to have to point to these and say for the 21 years I have been here, these have been unbalanced. For all of those 21 years I fought for a balanced budget amendment. But I have to say, we do not have the will. It is apparent and we are not going to have the will unless we do something about it constitutionally, where everybody will have to face the music. 
Right now they do not. And where some on our side love more defense spending and some of the Democrat side love more social spending in ways that may be irresponsible, under the balanced budget amendment I think we are going to all have to be more responsible. 
I just wish--this is an erstwhile wish, I understand--but I wish my colleague from West Virginia were on our side on this, because I think it would be a much easier amendment to pass. 
But I understand why he is not, and I know how sincere he is. But, like Paul of old-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-116-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Like Paul of old, who held the coats-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-117-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The man who held the coats of the men who stoned the first Christian martyr, he is sincerely wrong. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-118-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Paul was, yes, for holding the coats of those who stoned the first Christian martyr, Stephen. Paul was sincere. He meant what he said. He really was sincere. But he was wrong. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-119-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I don't think so. Sometimes going back in history is a very good thing to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-120-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I do. I would feel much better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-121-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. So am I. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-122-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No, I didn't say that. I said the amendment does not mandate a balanced budget. I think this amendment will lead us to a balanced budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-123-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. But let me say this. I happen to believe that this little booklet that contains the Constitution of the United States, without the balanced budget amendment, will hopefully have a balanced budget amendment in it. Because, if we do--and I know that sincerely dedicated people like my friend from West Virginia will be voting for more fiscal responsibility and restraint than we do now. And he will have more leverage on not only his side, but our side, to get people to stand up and do what is right. 
I do not think that these comments, `Let's just do it'--I have heard that now for 21 years. `Let's just do it. Let's just have the will to do it.' 
Here is the will of the Congress of the United States. Mr. President, 28 years of unbalanced budgets. I think these volumes speak worlds of information for us, of how ineffective we have been in doing what is right. The Constitution provides, in article V, for ways of amending it when it becomes necessary in the public interest to do so. I cannot imagine anything more necessary in the public interest than a balanced budget amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, if you will, a bipartisan amendment, bicameral bipartisan amendment, that literally, literally puts some screws to Congress and some restraints on Congress and makes Congress have to face the music. 
Right now, we don't face any music. Let's have the will? Give me a break, we haven't had the will in almost 66 years, but certainly not in the last 28 years, as represented by these huge stacks of unbalanced budgets of the United States of America. 
I have to pay respect to my colleague, because I care for him so much. He is sincere, he is eloquent, and he is a great advocate, and I respect him. In fact, it could be said I love him. The fact of the matter is, I think he is wrong. He thinks I am wrong. But I think his charts are very, very good reasons why, and these books are very good reasons why something has to be done. We cannot just keep frittering away our children's future and the future of our grandchildren. I know he shares that view with me, and I just wish we could do more together to protect their future. I am doing everything I can with this amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-124-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am being honest. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-125-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think it promises a balanced budget, I don't think it mandates one. It gives us the flexibility to do whatever we want to do, as long as we comply its requirements. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-126-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No, no, it gives us the flexibility to do whatever we want to do, but we have to stand up and vote to do it by supermajority votes. If you want to increase the deficits, you have to stand up and vote by a supermajority to do it. If you want to increase taxes, you can do it, but you have to vote on a constitutional majority of both Houses, to do it. That is a considerably different situation from what we have today where there are no constraints and, in many cases, or some cases that are very important, at least over the last 21 years, no votes. It has been done in the dead of the night, to use a metaphor, a metaphor that is all too real. These budget volumes are real. These are not mirages. These volumes are actually real. They represent 28 years of unbalanced budgets, 8 years longer than I have been here, and I see many, many more in the future if we don't pass this balanced budget amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-127-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say this, Moses also struck the rock at Meribah and gave water and was forbidden from entering the promised land after 40 years of traveling in the wilderness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-128-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That's right, Horeb. The fact of the matter is that he was following, in a sense, the same pattern, but without God's will. And I am tired of following the same pattern which I cannot believe is God's will. I am sorry that we have 28 years of unbalanced budgets in a row, and we are looking at 28 more because we are unwilling to do what is right. 
Now, look, the balanced budget amendment moves us toward a balanced budget by requiring supermajority votes if we want to unbalance the budget or increase the taxes to balance it. It requires a balanced budget unless there are emergencies in which we need a three-fifths majority to waive balanced budget requirements. 
In all due respect, my friend from West Virginia is actually arguing that one should oppose the balanced budget amendment because it doesn't require utopia, because we can rely on estimates. Well, utopia, means `nowhere.' But relying on good faith estimates, as the report does say, is `somewhere,' rather than `nowhere.' And it will lead us to balanced budgets. 
The first Congress and the States ratified the Bill of Rights. If we took the Senator's line, one should have opposed them, let's say, the first amendment, for instance, free speech, because it did not define free speech or show how free speech was going to be enforced. But we all know that's ridiculous, and I believe it's ridiculous, but I believe we should be better equipped to deal with estimates of outlays and receipts with a balanced budget amendment in the Constitution that all of us are sworn to uphold. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-129-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-130-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, I will miss my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-131-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. This has been a good colloquy. I will miss my colleague, and he teaches me a lot every time he comes to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-132-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will not go into that very much right now, but I think the Senator makes a very good point. 
One reason is the States do not print the money. No. 2 is some States cannot do much in the capital way because they do not have the money and they do not balance their budgets the way they should. No. 3 is that there are rating systems that make it possible for States to borrow on bonds, and they discipline the use of bonds by the States. There would be no similar system for the Federal Government. No. 4 is that, frankly, the Federal Government can create surpluses that should work. No. 5 is that the States, at least 44 of them, have balanced budget amendments. If they did not have their balanced budget amendments, many of them would not be balancing their budgets either, even with the capital budget. And they have done better than the Federal Government at restraining their borrowing. 
So there is no real comparison between the Federal Government and the States. There is nobody to keep the Federal Government in line without a balanced budget amendment. I think that is what this balanced budget amendment is all about. I appreciate my colleague. We have had a good debate. He certainly always raises very interesting issues and very pertinent issues and I think adds to the quality of the debate around here every time he comes on the floor. So I personally appreciate it. 
With regard to capital budgets, let me say OMB, CBO and GAO, among others, have opined that debt-financed capital budgets are not a good idea for the Federal Government. All of them have said that. See, for example, President Clinton's fiscal 1998 proposed budget. The Analytical Perspectives volume, I think on page 136, there are some remarks on this. 
The Clinton administration said, `The rationale for borrowing to finance investment is not persuasive' and that a `capital budget is not a justification to relax current and proposed budget constraints.' I agree. 
Besides the fact that the U.S. Government does not need to borrow to finance its investment, it is not subject to the constraints that families, business and States face. 
Families and businesses are disciplined by markets. States are disciplined by bond ratings. A Federal capital budget is bound to be abused. Future Congresses could redefine many kinds of spending as capital. It would be a monstrous loophole in the balanced budget amendment. 
Let me just say that I do agree with OMB, CBO, the Office of Management and Budget, the Congressional Budget Office, the General Accounting Office, that a Federal capital budget is not a good idea. Especially, I think, in the context of a constitutional amendment. So that is all I will say about it today. But I hope that is enough because a capital budget is really not the way to go constitutionally. But this amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, is the right way to go. It will help us to make some dents in what has been going on for the last 28 years at least, or should I say 58 of the last 66 years where we have had unbalanced budgets. 
Could I ask the Chair, how much time remains on both sides? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-133-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Go ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-134-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Could I yield to the budget---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-135-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield such time as he needs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-136-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time does the Senator need? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-137-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield 3 minutes of my time to the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, and then I have the Senator from Nebraska waiting to speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-138-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time remains? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-139-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 3 minutes to the Senator from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-140-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me take 1 minute of my remaining time, and that is to say that this amendment will have a loophole in the balanced budget amendment second to none, and a loophole for any kind of spending--not military spending, any kind of spending. It means more of the 28 years of unbalanced budgets. I hope my colleagues will vote down this amendment. 
I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-141-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I move to table, and I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-142-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that time be taken out of both sides equally in the Dodd amendment, because I think we have more than enough time. If we need more 
time, we will ask unanimous consent to get more. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to take this time to briefly respond to my friend from North Dakota and others. In their press conference that was held this morning, as I understand it--I was not there, but Senators Conrad, Dorgan and Reid were--at that event a one-page memorandum from the Congressional Research Service, which was inaccurately termed a `study,' was characterized as proof that passage and ratification of the balanced budget amendment will harm Social Security. 
The problem is that the CRS memorandum did not conclude that at all. All the CRS memorandum concluded was that the Social Security existing surpluses after 2019--the year the program no longer produces surpluses because of the retirement of the baby boomers--cannot be used to fund the program unless such expenditures were offset by revenue or budget cuts. 
Of course, this is technically true. That is what a balanced budget does. It balances outlays and receipts, and expenditure of any part of the budget is an outlay. 
But these critics of the balanced budget fail to mention a few things. They fail to mention that CRS, in the memorandum, also concluded that the present day surpluses are `an accounting practice.' Past CRS studies clearly demonstrate that the Social Security trust funds are, indeed, an accounting measure. There is no separate Federal vault where Social Security receipts are stored. Social Security taxes--called FICA taxes--are simply deposited with all other Federal revenues. The moneys attributed to Social Security are tracked as bookkeeping entries so that we can determine how well the program operates. As soon as the amounts attributed to FICA taxes are entered on the books, Federal interest-bearing bonds are electronically entered as being purchased. That is the safest investment that exists in the world today. 
This country has a unified budget. This means that the proceeds from Social Security taxes are part of the Treasury--of general revenue. CRS has recognized this. 
Moreover, I might add, without including the present day surpluses, the budget cannot be balanced. That is why President Clinton has included Social Security funds in every one of his budgets. 
Do Senators Dorgan, Conrad, and Reid oppose that? If they do, they have a right to, but the President includes them because he has to. 
I recognize that Social Security is in danger. But the problem is not the inclusion of Social Security funds in the budget. The problem is that, with the retirement of the baby boomers and that generation, there will not be enough FICA taxes to fund their retirement. CRS, in a study, concluded that the present day surpluses would not be sufficient to resolve this problem. CRS concluded that the Social Security program needs to be fixed. 
Finally, not including Social Security in the budget would harm the program. Congress could rename social programs--as they have done before--as Social Security and use the FICA taxes to fund those programs to the detriment of senior citizens; that is, if we do not handle this matter the way the balanced budget amendment requires us to do. 
My colleagues' problem, in reality, is not with the balanced budget amendment but with the problems the Social Security program faces and will face in the future. We need to fix that. Adopting the balanced budget amendment is a good start. If we do not do that and if they take these matters so they are not part of the unified budget, then I submit every senior in this country is going to be hurt some time in the future because there will not be the will to get matters under control and spending under control. 
We saw the charts of the distinguished Senator from West Virginia all afternoon, which I think make my case, and so do these 28 years of unbalanced budgets. The only way we are going to face up to the needs of Social Security and the needs of our seniors is if it is part of the unified budget. 
Frankly, the CRS is right, this is an accounting process. The way to do it right is to have a balanced budget amendment passed that works. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I say to my dear friend and colleague, that would be one of the most tragic errors we could make. To me, that would be almost fiscal insanity. 
I am not saying anything is purely technical. What I am saying is that the money, not the securities, the money from FICA is commingled with all Treasury funds. Everybody knows that. That is No. 1. 
No. 2, as to the outyear issue, CRS says in various studies that the present surplus is not enough to fund the needs of the system when the baby boomers retire. That is a reality. 
No. 3, not including Social Security within the purview of the balanced budget amendment will ultimately hurt that program, because there will not be the same force to reform the program and make sure it works when the baby boomers come on that there may be now, that is included in the unified budget. 
I might also add, Mr. President, this is very important. This is the highest item in the Federal budget. How can we take it out of the unified Federal budget and not consider it? Yes, we have surpluses for a few years, but then all of a sudden, it goes into deep deficit. Both sides need to be in the full balanced budget if we are going to meet our realities and meet our necessities. 
The question of the Senator from North Dakota, Senator Dorgan, `If the balanced budget amendment would truly require a balanced budget, then why will the debt increase,' is, with all due respect, a bit of sophistry. The balanced budget amendment will require a balanced budget. Outlays must not exceed receipts under section 1 of Senate Joint Resolution 1. 
It is true that gross debt may still increase even if the budget is balanced. That is because the Government's exchange of interest-bearing securities for the present Social Security surplus is counted in the gross debt. It is merely an accounting or bookkeeping notation of what one agency of Government owes another agency. It is analogous to a corporation buying back its stock or debentures. Such stocks and bonds are considered retired obligations that, once retired, have no economic or fiscal significance. 
Moreover, the Defense and Energy Departments list billions of dollars of environmental and nuclear cleanups as liabilities. All in all, gross debt, which includes all debt, is simply an overall indicator of Federal Government obligations. This sets the floor on increasing debt that has a direct, current effect on the overall economy, as the administration agrees. This is very different from obligations owed by the Federal Government to the public. This type of debt termed `net debt' or debt held by the public is legally enforceable and is what is economically significant. 
If net debt zooms because of interest payments of debt, which last year amounted to $250 billion, budget deficits balloon with all the dire economic consequences. To assure that budgets will be balanced unless extraordinary situations arise, debt held by the public cannot be increased unless three-fifths of the whole number of each House concur. 
It is true that a balanced budget amendment does not by itself reduce the $5.3 going to $5.4 trillion national debt. But what it does do is straighten out our national fiscal house. Passage of Senate Joint Resolution 1 will increase economic growth. Almost everybody agrees to that on Wall Street. It will increase economic growth. It will allow us to run surpluses. With this, our national debt may be decreased if Congress desires to do so in the interest of national security, stability, and prosperity. 
Without Senate Joint Resolution 1, as we saw from the charts of the distinguished Senator from West Virginia all afternoon long today, without Senate Joint Resolution 1, this will be an impossibility. We will just continue the same darn programs producing deficits producing the 28 years of unbalanced budgets, unbalanced budgets that will just continue on ad infinitum. Ultimately our kids are going to have pay these debts, and it will be a doggone big debt for them. We just cannot do it to them. 
I just suggest to my colleagues, as sincere as they are, the worst thing they can do for our senior citizens is to try to exclude Social Security from the budget because then all these big spenders around Congress are going to find everything to be a Social Security expenditure. Ultimately, it will impinge on the Social Security program and ruin the program, which Senator Reid this evening has rightly called one of the greatest programs in the history of the world. He called it the greatest. I will certainly say it is one of the greatest in the history of the world. 
If we want it to continue, it seems to me we have to treat it, since it is a high item in our budget, as a budgetary item. These accounting approaches are going to go on no matter what happens. So I think if we pass the balanced budget amendment, a balanced budget will ultimately become a reality. We are going to have to face reform of Social Security in the best interests of our senior citizens. 
If we keep going where we are going, there will not be any moneys for Social Security and a lot of people are going to get hurt. To exclude Social Security from the budget is penny wise and pound foolish and it is a fiscal gimmick to try to take the largest item in the Federal budget out of the Federal budget without reforming the program to keep it solvent. Passage of the balanced budget amendment will pressure Congress to fix Social Security. Passage of the balanced budget amendment will help increase revenues and economic growth that will aid Social Security. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me just say I never did learn how to juggle things. I think that is one reason why I strongly believe in balanced budgeting, is because I am tired of all the juggling that has gone on around here. But under the exemption proposal of the distinguished Senator from North Dakota, the debt will increase much faster because there is nothing being done about it. His proposal does not change that one bit. 
Our proposal says we are tired of this. We are tired of 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets, and we want to face the music of budget deficits and do it within the realm of fiscal restraint. And, if we do not keep all items together, then there are going to be loopholes that literally will blow this country apart. We will have the regular budget and a separate Social Security budget. One will be required to be balanced under the constitutional amendment and the other will be an exempted Social Security budget that can run deficits because under the proposal it will be excluded from the constitutional amendment. Congress will transfer costly programs to the exempted budget. These costly programs will be funded out of Social Security revenues. This will ruin and hurt every senior citizen in this country. Exempting Social Security is just a fiscal gimmick. 
Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We also know it is accounting. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Of course not. Of course not. But passage of the balanced budget amendment is the first and only real step toward a balanced budget and fiscal sanity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think that is true. Let me just say, so I clarify, I did not say that the distinguished Senator from North Dakota is a sophist, though I think he would make a good one. I did say that I think his arguments are-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I admitted I could not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me say this. I think there is a good argument the gross debt increase does not matter in this context. Why? Because it is just evidence of what one agency in the Government owes another agency. What is of economic consequence is net debt--net debt; that is debt held by the public which is legally enforceable. 
Now, I have to say that the Senator's proposal does not stop the debt from growing, and under his proposal, if this balanced budget amendment goes down, if his amendment was added--and it will go down and everybody knows that--the gross debt will grow at least as fast. So his solution is not a solution. 
We all know that the only balanced budget amendment we have a chance of passing is the underlying amendment that includes everything on the budget. We also all know, in all fairness, that Social Security should be included because it is more than capable of competing with other programs, and it ought to have to compete. Let me tell you this, if it is not on there, I think it is a risky gimmick to take it out. 
When somebody says our balanced budget amendment is a gimmick, I agree with the Senator from Maine, Olympia Snowe, who said today, if it was a gimmick, we would have passed it long ago. The fact is that it is why it is being fought so hard against. It will put fiscal restraints and discipline on all items of the budget that has been long overdue. I think that has to be done. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is quite a bit different from what I am saying. We did not include Social Security in the budget in Gramm-Rudman-Hollings solely so as to not give the President the right to sequester Social Security funds. But this exclusion was not from the budget itself. But we should not lock the exemption into the Constitution. We can always change statutes. It is much harder to amend the Constitution. We should not lock into the Constitution the largest item in the Federal budget, which is outside the purview of the constitutional amendment. If you start doing that, that is risky. 
You do not know how that will affect senior citizens. It is likely to hurt the senior citizens, and it is better to keep things on budget. I suspect that there is no question in anybody's mind that Social Security is more than capable of fending for itself and of getting another 98-to-2 vote in the Senate and an equivalent vote in the House that you cannot tamper with it. 
Frankly, I am one of those that would make sure to vote that you do not tamper with Social Security, to lock the exemption in the Constitution forever. Such a budgetary practice, is risky. That could have a terribly bad effect on senior citizens. I think senior citizens are starting to wake up to that. They know this issue has been used blatantly and politically and demogogically for years now. I think they are getting tired of it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will end with this. The 1990 Budget Act basically stated in one section to take Social Security out of budget. It said in another section to leave it in. This is confusing. But both Congress and the President have construed the Budget Act of 1990 to allow Social Security to be included within the unitary budget. 
Second, Social Security is not a pay-go system under the 1990 act. I want to add that once you make that decision to take the largest item out of the budget, you have provided a loophole where people can impinge on Social Security and hurt senior citizens. Anybody who does not believe in those loopholes better look at these stacks. They are filled with loopholes like that. We are trying to stop those loopholes. 
I might also mention this, because I think it is pretty important. All constitutional scholars who testified before our committee, those for the balanced budget amendment and those against the balanced budget amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, testified that exempting Social Security in the Constitution was constitutionally risky. It is a risky gimmick to do that. No one knows how that will hurt the seniors, but we know it will. It would subject Social Security and the Constitution to a gaming approach. They could game the process. They could game Social Security. They could game the Constitution. That would be a disaster for our country. 
Alan Morrison, one of the leading constitutional lawyers in this country, who disagreed about the wisdom of the balanced budget amendment, said: `Given the size of Social Security, to allow it to run at a deficit would undermine the whole concept of a balanced budget. Moreover, there is no definition of Social Security in the Constitution and it would be extremely unwise and productive of litigation and political maneuvering to try to write one. If there is to be a balanced budget constitutional amendment, there should be no exceptions.' 
In conclusion, the biggest threat to Social Security is our growing debt and the concomitant interest payments. That related inflation hits hardest on those on fixed incomes, and the Government's use of capital to fund debt slows productivity and income growth and siphons off needed money for worthwhile programs. The way to protect Social Security benefits is to pass Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
The proposal to exempt Social Security would not only destroy the balanced budget amendment--the only one that can pass, a bipartisan amendment, a bicameral amendment, bipartisan in both parties--but, in all probability, would very badly hurt Social Security and every recipient of Social Security, and would definitely guarantee that the baby boomers would not have any Social Security in the future. They will come to the realization that it is going to hurt Social Security, too. The best thing we can do is keep everything in the budget and start being budget people who work, and who do what's right, and get rid of these 28 years of unbalanced budgets that have just about wrecked the country. And it could very well wreck Social Security. 
I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until the hour of 11 a.m. on Thursday, February 13. I further ask that immediately following the prayer, the routine requests for the morning hour be granted and the Senate then proceed to a period of morning business until the hour of 3 p.m., with Senators to speak during the designated times: 
Senator Thomas, or his designee, in control of the time from 11 to 12 noon; Senator Reed of Rhode Island and Senator Kennedy for up to 30 minutes each, between 12 and 1 o'clock; the time from 1 o'clock until 2 o'clock divided among the following Senators: Senator Grams for 20 minutes, Senator Domenici for 10 minutes, Senator Murkowski for 10 minutes, Senator Coats for 10 minutes, Senator Faircloth for 5 minutes; the time between 2 o'clock to 3 o'clock divided in the following fashion: Senator Graham of Florida, 10 minutes; Senator Kohl, 10 minutes; and Senator Hollings, 45 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Hopefully, by 2 o'clock tomorrow, the majority leader should be able to let us know what will be done thereafter. We can't extend morning business past 3 o'clock tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think we just have to work it out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. These are the only requests I have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am informed by the leadership office that we will be able to update the Senate about 2 o'clock tomorrow. Hopefully, these matters can be resolved. The majority leader may want to proceed to other business. I don't know. But my understanding is that there is going to be an effort to try to accommodate people. I think the two leaders will have to work that out. But we can't do it until 2 o'clock tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Well, I think the Senator knows the problems of leadership. The things we are trying to do tomorrow can't be cleared tonight. So until we get to 2 o'clock, we can't resolve this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will certainly take the Senator's request to the majority leader and ask him to consider it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will take that request to the majority leader. I will certainly do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I do. I know you are protecting your side, as you should. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, tomorrow, the Senate will be in a period of morning business to accommodate a large number of requests. It is still possible that the Senate will consider a resolution regarding milk prices during Thursday's session. Rollcall votes are, therefore, possible tomorrow. The Senate may also be asked to turn to the consideration of any other legislative or executive items that can be cleared. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield just for a second? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, the Senator indicated he would like 100 people to vote for his amendment. I will make a suggestion to the Senator, and that is, amend your amendment to put it in a sense-of-the-Senate resolution form, and I will work to get you 100 votes. But we are talking about amending the Constitution with language that really clutters up the Constitution with language that should not be in the balanced budget amendment. 
If the Senator will do that, I will work to get him 100 votes in the Senate, because nobody wants to treat children or children's programs disproportionately, but it is not constitutional language, and it should not be in the Constitution. I have to be opposed to it, and I hope most of our fellow Senators will be opposed to it. Nobody is opposed to children. 
I think that would be a reasonable way of resolving this. Put it in a sense-of-the-Senate resolution, so it is not incorporated in the Constitution, as a sense-of-the-Congress resolution in the Congress. It just is not the way we should amend the Constitution of the United States. 
As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I cannot let that happen, but if the Senator will change and do that, I would be happy to go to a vote, and I would work my side of the floor to get 100 people to vote to say we do not want children's programs to be treated disproportionately. 
I hope the Senator will consider this kind offer. It is a sincere offer. I share his viewpoint with regard to children. I think virtually everybody in here does. The fact of the matter is, though, that all items have to be on the budget if we are going to have any kind of a balanced budget amendment work. I know the Senator is not going to vote for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution no matter what we put into it. Even if we accepted his amendment as part of the balanced budget amendment, he would not vote for it. 
That way, you are sending a message. That way, you would have your colleagues voting with you. Otherwise, I think people who love and revere the Constitution have to say this is not the way you amend the Constitution; we should not put this language into a constitutional amendment because it is not constitutional. 
Frankly, I suggest to my distinguished colleague, I would like to help him do that if he wants to do that. If he doesn't, then I have to oppose this amendment, and I hope most Senators will oppose the amendment, because this type of language should not go into the Constitution, because although it is meaningful language, it is not constitutional language, and it will not guarantee the children's programs are going to be treated any differently than anything else under a balanced budget amendment. 
I retain the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator will yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator will yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. On my time. I have to say that you did get a voice vote last time, not a recorded vote. I am offering you a recorded vote. I happen to believe sense-of-the-Senate resolutions mean a lot. But I certainly could not accept this language as part of a balanced budget constitutional amendment. If for no other reason, what does the term `disproportionate' mean? Which programs have to be preferred above others? 
There are a thousand programs we are talking about here. I know, because I worked with most all of them when I was ranking member and chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee, on which the Senator from Minnesota now sits. 
I will get you the votes. I will work my side to try to get 100 of these people to vote for it. I happen to believe when Senators in this body vote for a sense-of-the-Senate resolution, it means something, especially if you get 100 percent. I cannot guarantee it, but I would work to get 100 percent. It would be adopted, because I think virtually everybody here would like to have children's programs treated fairly. 
The distinguished Senator makes a tremendous point. We treat seniors very well. They get about 20 times the help from the Federal Government that individual children get, and we are not doing what we should do for children in our country. There are a lot of children in poverty who are in serious straits who do not have the health care that they need. 
On the other hand, the question is, how do we best solve that problem? I do not think you single it out, because once you do that in this amendment, there must be a thousand other things that do not want to be treated disproportionately. 
Frankly, it just makes the amendment a nullity. I would be happy to work for a significant up-or-down vote for the Senator, no motion to table, up-or-down vote if he would make it a sense-of-the-Senate resolution that does not go into this constitutional amendment. 
I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague from Minnesota. I believe he is devoted to children. But he is not alone. There are 99 others in this body who are devoted to children. Frankly, children's programs can compete very successfully with other programs, just like Social Security can. To do a risky gimmick of putting this type of language into the Constitution, like those who want to take Social Security out of the Constitution, the purview of the balanced budget, I think would be highly risky and very, very dangerous. 
I was talking with the junior Senator from Wyoming, Senator Enzi. He indicated to me, he said, you know, if you use the language `not disproportionate,' which is what this language is, it can force proportionate reductions in all parts of the budget in order to comply with this amendment, because this would be an amendment to this amendment to the Constitution. The worst budgeting for kids could come from across-the-board budget cuts. That is how the courts could easily interpret the amendment. 
Mr. President, for the information of every Senator, I have offered to give the Senator an up-or-down vote on a true sense-of-the-Senate resolution saying the same thing which he did not get last year and which I will get him today, and I have offered to try to get him 100 percent of the Senators to vote for this so we would be on record as not wanting to have children's programs reduced disproportionately. 
However, to put this into the Constitution is the wrong thing to do. This is not language that you would normally see in the Constitution. The Wellstone amendment is not an appropriate amendment for inclusion in the Constitution. I want to point out to my colleagues that the Wellstone amendment would place in the text of the Constitution itself a statement of `policy.' I put policy in quotes because I think there is a lot of room to disagree with the Senator. It would put a statement of policy of the United States with regard to the budget priorities into the Constitution, the first time in history to do that. Mr. President, I do not believe that it is appropriate to put what is essentially a sense-of-the-Senate resolution in the actual text of the Constitution. That is why I am suggesting that our colleagues vote against this amendment because that is not what should be done. I believe that such a policy statement would either be surplusage or produce confusion and difficulties if it became part of the Constitution. 
Now, the distinguished Senator from Minnesota sincerely said we are not locking ourselves into a harsh set of priorities if we take this amendment. I think you are. Let me paraphrase that better. He said if we take the amendment as it is we are locking ourselves into a harsh set of priorities. I think it makes it more harsh if you put his amendment in because, first of all, nobody knows what the word disproportionate means vis-a-vis constitutional language or interpretation; and, second, you are referring one item in the budget for one group of people in the Constitution over everybody else and there are a lot of people in this country who would like to not be treated in a disproportionate way. So we are not locking ourselves into a harsh set of priorities by having this balanced budget amendment passed. We are simply saying everything in the unified budget must be on the table. These programs for children are totally capable of competing with all other programs in the budget, as they should be. The fact is we have to have everything on the table because we are going to hit some very, very difficult times in the future and it will be difficult to know what to do to balance this budget. 
As we begin today's debate on Senate Joint Resolution 1, I do welcome the discussion of this amendment, because after all what this debate and the balanced budget amendment are all about is the legacy we intend to pass on to our children and our children's children. Unfortunately, as it stands today, the legacy is not one of health and prosperity, as has been the American tradition for the past two centuries; rather, the legacy we are imposing on our children is one of fiscal servitude. The debt, Mr. President, is a real threat to our children's future and to their well-being. 
As I emphasized before, with our national debt standing at $5.3 trillion and going to $5.4 trillion, every child born today is born into this world trapped into a $20,000 debt. This new baby owes $20,000--$20,000. Think about that for a minute. In essence, what we are doing is handing every child who comes into the world an unsolicited and undeserved $20,000 liability. Unfortunately for our children, they are given nothing to show for that liability. 
Every one of the 28 years represented by these unbalanced budgets, every one of those 28 years these unbalanced budgets in this pile, in all but one of the last 36 years what we have done is finance our own exorbitant spending habits by mortgaging our children's future. In my view, this is taxation without representation in its purest form. What is worse, unlike you or me who may take out a loan to buy a house or a car and begin to pay that loan off, not only do we not pay down any of our children's 
debt, we continue to refinance and finance again our children's mortgages, adding more and more debt to pay for our own protracted fiscal irresponsibility. 
Let me illustrate this point, Mr. President. According to the Congressional Budget Office, by the time a child born today is 5 years old, the national debt would have risen to $6.8 trillion and his or her share of that debt will have increased from $20,000 to $24,000. By age 10, that debt will stand at $8.5 trillion, with that child shouldering approximately $29,000 of that burden. Just think about it. That is nearly a 50-percent increase of his or her debt burden in just 10 years. At that rate, by the time a child graduated from college, he or she would owe in the neighborhood of $50,000 as their share of the Nation's debt. Now that, in my view, is no way to send a young man or young woman into the world to make a living. As sincere as my good friend from Minnesota is, the fact is even if we accepted this amendment he would not vote for the balanced budget amendment, which is the only hope of helping these young children in the future, the only hope of stopping us from spending their future away and saddling them with an irresponsible debt burden. 
Now our former colleague, Senator Simon, who led the fight for a balanced budget amendment on the Democrat side for many years, shared with us the words of another of our former colleagues, Senator Cohen, now Secretary of Defense, when he testified before the Judiciary Committee a few weeks ago. Senator Cohen was at one time opposed to a balanced budget amendment. And I remember those days because I have been responsible for bringing every balanced budget amendment to the floor of the U.S. Senate from the first one right on up until today. After serving in Congress for 18 years, Senator Cohen had this to say, and he was against it initially, but after 18 years, this is what he said:  
Today the ethic of self-sacrifice has been perversely inverted. Parents and grandparents borrow from their heirs so they might enjoy the comforts and pleasantries of the moment. The practice of handing our children trillions of dollars of debt with little more than a good luck wish can only be considered an unconscionable and criminal act. 
Secretary Cohen is exactly right. 
As I have repeatedly said, the mortgaging of our children's future is nothing short of fiscal child abuse and it must end. 
As a result of our failure to exhibit fiscal restraints in setting budget priorities our children are faced with not only the looming burden of our enormous debt but also with massive annual interest payments required just to maintain the standard. This year we will pay $360 billion in gross interest to service our existing debt. That means we will spend nearly $1 billion every day of this year just on interest on the debt. Now to put this in perspective, if we take just the net interest, meaning we ignore interest paid by the Government to the various trust funds and subtract interest income received by the Government, our annual interest payment would amount to $935 for every man, woman, and child in America. Just look at this. Interest on the national debt, we could pay $340 to every man, woman, and child in Utah every day. Think about it. That is in my own State, and the interest on the debt is the fastest growing item in the Federal budget. 
According to the CBO, interest on the debt will continue to rise substantially over the next 5 years, to $412 billion by the year 2002. My gosh, that is more than the total Federal budget was 20 years ago. That represents half of all projected individual income tax receipts for that year and nearly two times all corporate income taxes. By 2007, the interest on the debt is projected to reach a whopping $493 billion. That is just the interest we owe. That is not the debt. That $493 billion is just $50 billion shy of our entire discretionary budget for the current fiscal year. 
Mr. President, it is outrageous to me that we would consider subjecting our children to a future where 50 percent of their hard-earned tax dollars would go to service the debt incurred by 
us, their parents. Just think what we could do for our children and our children's children if this money were available to be put to more productive use. 
We have talked a lot about the WIC Program, Women, Infants, and Children Program. I know a lot about that. As a newly elected conservative, one of my counties said they did not want WIC funds because they did not want Federal Government strings. I thought WIC funds were pretty important because they helped lactating mothers to be able to bring the best nutritional needs to their children, and even though this was a county that really supported me I stood up and said I think the WIC Program is a good program. Today, that county and the mothers that are poor benefit from that WIC Program. It is a highly effective program and works to improve the health of the mothers and the newborn children, and also serves to reduce our Nation's overall health care costs. I have long supported the WIC Program, as has just about every Senator. We are constantly struggling to come up with the money to fully fund participation in the WIC Program. With the $360 billion we spend on interest on the debt this year not only could we fully fund participation in the WIC Program, we could afford to pay recipients nearly 100 times what they received last year. 
I could go through every program affecting children in our country today and we can talk about not allowing them to be disproportionately reduced. The best way to not allow children's programs to go down the drain is to pass the balanced budget amendment and put some fiscal responsibility into the Constitution, so we have to live within our means and we do not barter away our children's future, we do not mortgage it away, so we have the money to be able to help children. These gimmicks that some on the other side want to put into the Constitution are dangerous. In the end, they will wind up hurting children and not balancing the budget. The best thing we can do for our country is to get that budget balanced and keep it balanced and start paring down the national debt, as well. If we do not start doing that, we are going to pay the price and it will be a heavy, heavy price. 
Mr. President, I am very concerned about this because if we are going to have a balanced budget amendment everybody in the world knows and everybody in Congress knows this is it. This is the last chance. This has been developed over 20 years. It is a balanced budget amendment that has been developed by Democrats and Republicans. I do not believe any single person can say they wrote it. It is an attempt by all of us to get together and do what is right. It is supported by an overwhelming majority in this body. Sixty-eight people have guaranteed to their constituents they will vote for it. We need 67. We should have one more than 67 if everybody lives up to their word. Frankly, if we pass this balanced budget amendment, it has a very excellent chance of going through the House. 
Head Start is another program we have heard a lot about. I strongly support the Head Start Program. As chairman and ranking member of the Labor Committee, I was deeply involved in fighting to provide increased authorizations for Head Start, and I am proud of the fact that since I first came to the Senate, the number of children served by federally funded Head Start programs has more than doubled. And yet, given the budget constraints we face, we are still working toward the goal of fully funding the Head Start Program--a result I believe every one of my colleagues favors. 
If we could recoup just a small portion of the money we will pay in interest on the debt this year, we could fully fund Head Start in a heartbeat. Not only could we fully fund the entire Head Start Program, including the new Head Start Program for infants and toddlers that was established in 1994, with this year's interest expenditures we could increase Head Start funding for every one of those children by more than 10 times what we currently spend. 
There are plenty of other important programs we could improve if we were to free up the resources currently dedicated to servicing the debt. In fact, with the money we will spend in gross interest on the debt just this year, we could cover the costs of all food and nutrition assistance programs, including food stamps, for the last 14 years--$346.9 billion. This same interest payment would cover the costs of all payments for WIC and other supplemental feeding programs, child nutrition and milk programs, student assistance, and low income home energy assistance for the last 20 years--$348.2 billion. 
Even in the current fiscal year, as this chart shows, with the money we will spend on gross interest payments, we could afford to double projected spending for elementary, secondary, and vocational education, higher education, research and general education aids, training and employment, housing assistance, food and nutrition assistance, social services, unemployment compensation, all health care services, and pollution control and abatement--and still increase Medicare spending by 50 percent. 
Now obviously we cannot simply pay off $5.3 trillion of debt and recoup our $360 billion in annual gross interest payments overnight. But, according to CBO, moving toward a balanced budget in 2002 would reduce projected net interest costs by some $46 billion and improve economic performance enough to produce a total fiscal dividend of $77 billion over the next 5 years. This represents real savings of nearly twice the amount we spent on all food and nutrition assistance programs last year, and is nearly 10 times all earned income tax credit payments for the past 10 years combined. This is real savings we can bring about to benefit our children now just by balancing the budget. 
But, if we continue to deficit spend, as we have in all but 8 of the last 66 years, we will only continue to compound our existing debt, increasing the interest payments necessary to service that debt and further exacerbating the tax burdens our children will face in future years. According to OMB and CBO, such tax burdens may equate to a lifetime net tax rate of about 82 percent for future generations in order to finance the cost of government at all levels. The 82 percent figure for our children stands in stark contrast to the 29 percent net tax rate for the generation of Americans born in the 1920's and the 34.4 percent net tax rate for the generation born in the 1960's. 
But the mammoth costs of financing both the Government and our enormous national debt are not the only burdens we are creating for our children by not balancing the budget. We should also recognize the significant economic benefits that our children stand to inherit from recurring balanced budgets, but which we are withholding from future generations by failing to exercise fiscal restraint today. 
As CBO reaffirms in its January report, balancing the budget in 2002 and subsequent years will lead to increased real economic growth, reduced interest rates, higher corporate profits, and increased revenues to the Federal Government. As a result, the Joint Economic Committee has estimated that a typical middle class family could easily save $1,500 each year; $1,500 every single year, Mr. President. That is like a built-in $500-per-child tax credit for a family of five--at no cost to the Government--just for passing the balanced budget amendment. I know a lot of families in Utah that could use an extra $1,500 each year to pay for food or clothing for their children, to pay for college tuition, to pay down credit card debts, or even to take a vacation and spend time with their kids. 
Even a college student could save an estimated $120 each year on a $10,000 student loan if we were to pass the balanced budget amendment. And it is not the Government that must pay for that savings. It is simply the real benefit generated by the economy's reaction to long-term balanced budgets. 
Mr. President, it is time for us to face reality. The single largest threat to our children's well-being is not that the Republicans and Democrats will be forced to live within their means when funding any given program. The real threat is that we will continue down the path of the last 66 years and mortgage our children's future earnings to pay for what we consider to be spending priorities today. If we do, our children will be left with no choice but to cut the very programs my colleague is talking about in ways that are unthinkable today, or drastically increase taxes on every American family to pay for the continued existence of those important programs. The balanced budget amendment is the only real assurance we have that our children will not be forced to make those choices. 
Now Mr. President, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out the solution to this problem. In fact, Grant Anderson, a 13-year-old young man in my home State of Utah, took the time to write a letter to me outlining how it can be done. Let me share with my colleagues what he had to say:  
Dear Orrin Hatch, I think we have a huge problem with the national budget. I have the easiest way to fix it. Do you want to hear it? Okay. Stop buying things if you don't have the money. 
That about says it all, Mr. President. It's just that simple. Yet, without a balanced budget amendment, there appears to be no real end in sight to Congress' abdication of its responsibility to people like Grant Anderson and to future generations. 
The fact is that after 4 years of declining deficits we have not reduced our staggering $5.3 trillion debt one penny. We have only slowed the growth in the national debt. More importantly, as my Republican colleagues and I predicted would happen during the debate on the President's 1993 budget package, CBO now predicts that annual deficits will resume their upward climb beginning this year--from an annual deficit of $124 billion in 1997, to $188 billion in 2002, and reaching a near-record $278 billion in 2007. Even OMB's estimates from the President's newly proposed budget, which predict lower deficit totals than CBO, project that gross Federal debt will top $6.6 trillion, exceeding 66 percent of our gross domestic product, by 2002. 
Now I know that there are those who will say that we can solve this problem without the constraints of a balanced budget amendment--that Congress and the President are committed to balancing the budget and to putting an end to the era of deficit spending. While I can only pray that they are right, our history of deficit reduction efforts in Congress should give the American people reason to be skeptical. 
Since 1978 we have adopted no fewer than five statutory regimes which promised to bring about balanced budgets. Every single one of them has failed. As this chart shows, time after time statutory fixes have been met with increased deficits. In fact, nearly 85 percent of our current national debt has accumulated while Congress has operated within statutory budget frameworks designed to ensure balanced budgets. Now, we are told, things are different. But will they really be all that different without the discipline of a constitutional amendment? 
A quick look at the President's budget shows that under his plan, we will continue to have deficits that are higher than last year's budget deficit until the year 2000. Only in the last 2 years of this budget do we see the dramatic cuts necessary to bring us into balance. That's right, Mr. President, a full 75 percent of the deficit reduction planned in President Clinton's recent budget submission comes in the 2 years after President Clinton leaves office. This is reminiscent to me of the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law, wherein we committed ourselves to balancing the budget by 1991, only to see the law slowly amended, circumvented, and the requirement for a balanced budget finally eliminated just 1 year prior to the year in which we were to achieve balance under the original law. 
While I commend the President for his avowed commitment to balancing the budget and appreciate the dedication expressed by leaders of both political parties to reaching a balanced budget, I seriously doubt whether, without the weight of a constitutional requirement to balance the budget, we will achieve balance by 2002. Even if we did--and I intend to work to that end--there is nothing to prevent future Congresses from yielding to the political pressures that would lead to renewed deficit spending. We need a constitutional amendment if we are truly committed to solving this problem. 
Mr. President, passing the balanced budget amendment, free of exemptions and loopholes that can be exploited by those who might not be fully dedicated to balancing the budget, is the most important thing we can do in this Congress to protect our children and the future generations that will follow. I urge my colleagues to join me in this effort by supporting the balanced budget amendment. 
If that happens, we will protect children like never before. To me that is worth it all. And in the end it will accomplish what the distinguished Senator from Minnesota would like to do. But if we put amendments like this in everybody and their dog will be in here with some sort of a program they want to protect because they think it is the most important program in the world. No. Let us put everything in the budget on budget. Let us have everything subject to the balanced budget amendment and let us have them compete for the available funds as it should be. Then let us make the right priority choices. And I guarantee my friend from Minnesota that Orrin Hatch will be there with him trying to help the children of this country so that they don't suffer a disproportionate reduction in their programs. And I do not think they will as long as both he and I are here, and others as well. 
Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.  
Mr. WELLSTONE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I will not take long. 
I know my colleague is sincere. I know he is a very good person and that he feels very deeply about children. And I have 
a great regard for him. He knows that. Children have the love in this town. One of the most effective lobbyists in this town is Marian Wright Edelman. I know. She and I worked hard to get the child care bill through. That has helped millions of children all over this country. 
I do not take a second seat to anybody with regard to taking care of children. In fact, Elaine and I have six. We are expecting our 16th and 17th grandchild within 2 weeks. I want them to have a future. I want them to have the care. I want there to be some money to help them. I want our country to be solvent. I do not want their futures bartered away and mortgaged away. 
The reason child care programs are being cut every year is because we are spending it all on interest on the national debt. 
The only thing that will give children protection in the future is if we pass this balanced budget amendment. We have here 28 years of unbalanced budgets. I do not know about others, but this pile is very significant to me. Every year we have people who are of the more liberal persuasion saying we should spend more, we should just get the will to balance the budget but we should spend more. They are inconsistent. 
Let me just tell you something. I think out of the mouths of children comes the greatest truths sometimes. This is a letter I received from Grant Anderson, a young boy. Here is what he said, August 5, 1996: 
Dear Orrin Hatch. I think we have a huge problem with the national budget. I have the easiest way to fix it. Do you want to hear it? OK-- 
With an exclamation mark. And then he writes in big print the letters. He said: 
Stop buying things if you don't have money-- 
And a bigger exclamation mark. And then he said: 
Thanks for your time. Grant S. Anderson. 
P.S. My mom and dad voted for you. 
A particularly good letter, I thought. 
But the fact of the matter is Grant is right on the money. My friend Grant Anderson really calls it the way it should be. If we are going to stop spending money we do not have, we have got to get rid of all these years of unbalanced budgets. And since we have proven that we are not going to get rid of them without a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, then, by gosh, I suggest we pass the balanced budget amendment so by the year 2002 we have the true budget that will be balanced so kids like Grant Anderson and all the kids my colleague is fighting for and I am fighting for will have a future. 
Now, to me out of the mouths of young people sometimes comes the greatest truth. 
Dear Orrin Hatch. I think we have a huge problem with the national budget. I have the easiest way to fix it. Do you want to hear it? OK. Stop buying things if you don't have money. Thanks for your time. Grant S. Anderson. 
I am grateful to Grant. I am grateful that he took the time to write to me, and there are thousands of others who are writing to us who want us to try to put some fiscal sanity into the system. We have tried five different balance-the-budget methodologies and not one of them has worked. The distinguished Senator said his amendment is not a gimmick, but his amendment reads: 
It is the policy of the United States that in achieving a balanced budget amendment-- 
`It is the policy of the United States.' He is writing policy into the Constitution-- 
Federal outlays must not be reduced in a manner that disproportionately affects outlays for education, nutrition and health programs for poor children. 
I agree with him; it is not a gimmick. It is a risky gimmick. If you start putting language into the Constitution that the distinguished Senator thinks can be easily interpreted, he does not know much about the Supreme Court if he takes that attitude. I have to tell you, we are making a great mistake. So I hope our colleagues will realize it is important to keep this amendment intact. It is the only amendment that has a chance of passing. It is a bipartisan amendment, and I hope we will support it here today. 
I move to table the Senator's amendment and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Orphan Drug Act of 1997, legislation to extend permanently the orphan drug tax credit. I am pleased that my good friend and colleague from Montana, Senator Baucus, is joining me. Similar legislation was introduced in the House last year by Representatives Nancy Johnson and Robert Matsui. I am confident that they will once again introduce legislation this year to make the credit permanent. 
Mr. President, this credit encourages private firms to develop treatments for rare diseases. As many of my colleagues know, we extended this medical research tax credit last year, but, it will expire on May 31 of this year. 
Since the 1983 enactment of the orphan drug tax credit we have seen very encouraging progress in developing new drugs to alleviate suffering from a number of so-called orphan diseases, those diseases that afflict a relatively small number of people. Because the process of research, development, and approval for new pharmaceuticals is so costly--running into hundreds of millions of dollars--the small market for a drug discourages drug companies from undertaking it. 
Mr. President, the incentive provided by this credit gives hope to individuals who suffer from such rare but devastating conditions as Tourette's syndrome. Huntington's disease, and neuro- fibromatosis, to name a few. Many drugs designated as orphan drugs have a much small potential market than even the 200,000 patients referred to in the definition in this credit--sometimes they are for conditions that affect as few as 1,000 persons in the United States. This means that without some incentive there is simply no possibility for a firm to profit from its decisions to develop drugs that treat these diseases. 
Fortunately, the orphan perception has been changing over the years that this research credit has been in effect. In fact, Mr. President, pharmaceutical companies have made great strides in discovering treatments for these orphan diseases. While only seven orphan drugs were approved by the FDA in the decade before the credit's initial passage, over 100 have been approved since and approximately 600 are now in development. 
Last year, I mentioned the first-ever treatment for Gaucher disease, a debilitating and sometimes fatal genetic disorder. This disease afflicts fewer than 5,000 people worldwide, yet the company who discovered the treatment expended its 
time and money to search for a treatment precisely because of the orphan drug credit's incentives. There are other examples as well. 
Mr. President, this credit's effectiveness has been tested for the past 14 years, and it has passed with flying colors. Few provisions of the tax code can claim to have clearly reduced human suffering and to have expanded our store of medical knowledge. This credit has done both. 
By helping small, entrepreneurial firms to take advantage of the orphan drug credit, we can make it even more effective. Before last year, the tax credit only served as an incentive for companies that earn a current-year-profit. If the credit could not be used immediately, it was lost forever. For large, profitable drug companies, this was rarely a problem. 
However, for many small, start-up pharmaceutical companies, this current-year restriction made the credit of little or no use. These firms typically lose money in the early years since they put all available funding into research. They only expect to see profits many years into the future. 
In order to improve the credit's usefulness, we modified the credit in legislation last year to allow firms to carry the credit back 3 years and carry it forward 15 years. This will give small, growing companies an incentive to find ways to treat these rare diseases that cause so many to suffer. I have been impressed by the strides being made in the biomedical field, including growing firms in my home State of Utah. 
In the course of research, scientists often stumble upon treatments that could, if developed, improve the lives of victims of rare diseases. However, because of the high cost of drug experiments and the enormous expense involved in gaining FDA approval, many researchers reluctantly set these promising drug innovations aside. Mr. President, this should not happen, not when so many are suffering from these rare diseases, and we have an effective credit available that has proven its benefits. 
The following national groups officially endorse the Orphan Drug Act of 1997: National Organization for Rare Disorders [NORD], National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Tourette Syndrome Association, United Parkinson Foundation, American Autoimmune Related Disease Association, Leukemia Society of American, Cystinosis Foundation, New England Biomedical Research Coalition, Biotechnology Industry Organization, and the Epilepsy Foundation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for his willingness to lead off in our efforts to pass the balanced budget amendment. Naturally, I disagree with him on the Social Security issue. But I know that he is a person of eminent qualification and one who does what he believes is right. 
I have had many years of opportunity to know the distinguished Senator from Pennsylvania, and I have a lot of respect for him. 
Mr. President, today we begin the second week of one of the most important debates that has ever taken place in the U.S. Senate. The subject matter goes to the heart of the Founding Fathers' hope for our constitutional system--a system that would protect individual freedoms with the maxim of limited government. 
In the latter half of this century, however, the intentions of the Framers of the Constitution have been betrayed by multiple Congress' inability to control their spending habits. The size of the Federal leviathan has grown to such an extent that the very liberties of the American people are threatened. 
Like some of the provisions of the Constitution, the proposed constitutional amendment, Senate Joint Resolution 1, is an appropriate addition to constitutional limits on the powers of the Federal Government designed to increase the freedom of the people by limiting the freedom of the Federal Government to act in ways that are harmful to the people. It is identical to the balanced budget amendment that was passed by the House of Representatives in the last Congress. A number of our new Members voted for it at that time. It has broad support in the country and among Democrats and Republicans in that we need to ensure a sound fiscal discipline in our budgeting process in order to leave a legacy of a strong national economy and a responsible national Government to our children and grandchildren. 
Mr. President, our Nation is faced with a $5.3 trillion--going to $5.4 trillion--national debt that gets worse every year that we run budgetary deficits. The Government is using capital that would otherwise be available to the private sector to create jobs, and to invest in the future of this country. Increasing amounts of capital are being wasted on merely financing the debt because of spiraling interest costs. This problem presents risks to our long-term economic growth and endangers the well-being of our elderly, our working people, and especially our children and grandchildren. The debt burden is a mortgage on our children's and our grandchildren's future. 
The total debt now stands at almost $5.3 trillion. By the end of this debate it may very well reach $5.4 trillion. That means every American, every man, woman, and child in this country has an individual debt burden of about $20,000 per person. It took us over 200 years to acquire our first trillion dollars of debt. We have been recently adding another $1 trillion to our debt about every 5 years. While the trends on this front seem to be better, the fact is we are still running sizable deficits every year. And, unless we take prompt and decisive action, those deficits will continue to rise again this year, next year, and year after year. In fact, if you look at the President's budget, he even waits until he is out of office before they have to make the tough decisions to really balance the budget by the year 2002. 
Yet, Mr. President, opponents of the balanced budget amendment claim that there is no problem. They repeatedly point to the marginal slowdown in growth in debt over the past few years as though all our problems are solved. They say President Clinton has already dealt with this problem. 
They are dead wrong. Only inside the beltway can people claim that when the debt is exceeding $5 trillion and still on the rise that we are on the right track. Everyone on Capitol Hill knows and the Congressional Budget Office has confirmed that we are currently not on a glidepath to a balanced budget, or to the balanced budget that the President may suggest. According to CBO's most recent projections, our 4 years of declining deficits that followed the enactment of President Clinton's record-setting 1993 tax hike will come to a grinding halt this year. What lies ahead is a familiar path of steadily increasing deficits rivaling anything we have ever seen before unless we take action to put us on the road to long-term fiscal discipline and balanced budgets. 
As this chart behind me shows, the Congressional Budget Office 
predicts that under current policies the deficit will begin to rise this year and continue to rise throughout the foreseeable future. The Congressional Budget Office projects the deficit will rise to $124 billion in fiscal year 1997 and continue rising to $188 billion in fiscal year 2002. The deficits just keep rising until in 2007 our annual deficit is projected to be $278 billion. Added up, these deficits will add a total of more than 2 trillion additional dollars to the debt from now--in 1997--until the year 2007. 
There is no balanced budget in this chart. And I have to tell you, I doubt that there ever will be without a balanced budget constitutional amendment putting the fiscal discipline into the Constitution that will require us to live within our means. The simple fact is that with every additional dollar that we borrow we throw more coal on the fire of the runaway train that we are all riding on. 
The sad reality is shown by this stack of unbalanced budget submissions. The President's budget submission, which promises a path to balance in the year 2002, causes me substantial concern that this pile is just going to keep getting higher. 
And this only lists the last 28 years of unbalanced budgets since the last balanced budget in 1969. Actually, there have only been eight in the last 66 years. But the last 28 years have all been unbalanced. Each one of these volumes represents one of those unbalanced budgets during each of those 28 years. 
The sad reality is shown by this stack of unbalanced budget submissions. The President's budget submission which promises us a path to balance in the year 2002 just makes it very clear, if you believe in the Congressional Budget Office projections, that this stack is just going to grow that much higher over the next number of years. 
For example, the President's new budget projects a modest surplus in the year 2002 but also requires a 75-percent deficit reduction to get there in the 2 years after he leaves office. 
Now, get that. Up through the year 2000, this President's budget does not require much sacrifice or much effort to try to balance the budget. But in the years 2001 and 2002, 75 percent of the cuts have to take place, and we all know around here that that is basically impossible to do. 
So the game continues, the same game we have put up with for 28 years, and it is pathetic, is what it is. This just indicates more of the same status quo, an avoidance of the tough decisions and deferral of the costs to the next guy, or should I say to our children. 
Additionally, the Senate Budget Committee has suggested that recomputing the numbers under CBO's more conservative economic assumptions puts the President's budget off balance in the year 2002 to the tune of an additional $66 billion. So the President's budget that he submitted just last week is not going to balance. 
The point is that we cannot yet congratulate ourselves for a job well done. There is hard work ahead for each of us to do, and there is no assurance of success. Based on the sad history illustrated by each of these 28 years of unbalanced budget submissions and the continued resistance of the President to take on the tough choices during his actual tenure in office, success is in serious doubt. 
That is one of the reasons why we need a balanced budget constitutional amendment. It has been called an insurance policy that we will get the budget actually balanced in the year 2002 and, more importantly, that we will keep it balanced thereafter. 
I would also note that it comes as no surprise that these increases in our Nation's debt mirror increases in Federal spending. The first $100 billion budget in the history of the Nation occurred as recently as fiscal year 1962--that was the whole budget--more than 179 years after the founding of our Republic. It took only 9 years for that figure to double, and in just another 6 years Federal spending had doubled again to $400 billion in 1977. I know, I was here. With another 6 years came another $400 billion increase in the Federal budget, and by 1986 our Nation had seen its first $1 trillion annual budget. Today we face an annual budget for fiscal year 1997 projected to exceed $1.6 trillion, as is the case under the budget recently submitted by the President. 
The Federal Government's appetite for spending the American people's money is the engine that has been driving this debt up and up because it has been easier to take the money in the form of a hidden tax like interest costs and future taxes, than in the form of a direct tax. 
One of most pernicious effects of the enormous deficit beast is the interest costs required to feed it. Interest on the public debt in 1996 amounted to some $344 billion. That is roughly $50 billion more than total Federal revenues in 1975. In other words, we spent less than $300 billion in 1957. In 1996, just 20 years later, gross interest costs took nearly 25 percent of all Federal revenues and more than half of all individual income tax revenue. And as this chart shows, net interest payments on the debt make up the third largest charge of our Federal budget. 
It is the red pie that is taken out of the total pie--the 
third largest payment in the Federal budget--exceeded only by defense spending and Social Security. 
It is really amazing when you look at it: Social Security spending, 22 percent, defense spending is 18 percent, and net interest is 15 percent. And it is going up every year and will go up exponentially unless we do something about it. And yet we have the same people around here year after year saying, `Oh, let us just exercise our will and let us just do it.' That is what they said for every 1 of these 28 years of these unbalanced budgets, and that is what they will be saying 10 years from now without any balanced budget, if we do not have the balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
Opponents of the balanced budget amendment suggest that we cannot afford to create a constitutional impediment to deficit spending because they believe that balancing the budget will result in decreased social spending. 
I do not personally understand the logic of continuing to waste such a large portion of our budget on interest on the rationale that we cannot afford to cut spending. What we cannot afford to do is continue to throw away so much of our budget on interest payments. Think of how much we could do on crime control, defense, disaster relief, health, science, and education if we had $344 billion available next year instead of paying interest against the national debt with that money. 
To help my colleagues put this in even better perspective, gross interest on the debt in 1966 amounted to more than the entire defense budget of $266 billion; 99 percent of Social Security payments, $347.1 billion; 64 percent of all discretionary outlays, $535.4 billion, and nearly 45 percent of all mandatory programs of $784.9 billion. 
The $334 billion of gross interest payments on the debt in 1996 could have covered our entire health spending, including Medicare and Medicaid, that is, $293.6 billion, all veterans-related entitlement spending, $18.8 billion, unemployment compensation, $22.6 billion, the cost of Federal law enforcement activities of $8 billion, and we would still have $1 billion to spare. 
Last year, in fact, we spent more money on net interest payments on the debt than we did for the combined budgets of the Department of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Justice, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Labor, the Department of State, and the Department of Transportation. Just think about that. 
Interest on the debt is the fastest growing item in the annual Federal budget. According to the current Congressional Budget Office projections, gross interest on the debt will continue to rise substantially over the next 5 years from $360 billion in 1997, to $412 billion by 2002, and by 2007 just the interest on the debt is projected to be $493 billion. 
If we keep going like we are, we are going to be paying almost everything on interest that could be used to solve a lot of problems in our society. This $495 billion is just $50 billion shy of our entire discretionary budget for the current fiscal year. 
Over the past 4 years of short-lived deficit reduction, we have paid roughly $1.3 trillion in interest on the public debt. That is more than the Federal Government took in during all of 1994. Without the gross interest on the debt, we would not have had a deficit in 1996. In fact, we would have run a budget surplus of $237 billion. 
But we cannot even begin to think about reallocating this money to more productive uses until we begin to reduce our debt. If interest rates go back up, the problem will be increased exponentially. Self-propelled interest costs will continue to eat a larger share of our National Treasury, destroying our choices to fund new programs and eroding our ability to keep the commitments we have already made. This is serious stuff. 
And even if we are successful in passing a budget this year that will balance our budget by the year 2002, we will never begin to reduce our debt unless we can provide some assurance that such balanced budgets will become the rule rather than the exception. That is what the balanced budget amendment is geared to do. 
Mr. President, both sides will recite lots of numbers and figures during the course of this debate. One such figure is our current $5.3 trillion national debt. But how does one communicate the implications of our staggering debt? 
In 1975, before this recent borrowing spree, the Federal debt amounted to approximately $2,500 per person. That was each American's share of it in 1975, and the annual interest charges were roughly $250 per taxpayer. At present, the Federal debt amounts to about $20,000 per person, with annual interest charges that each person in this country, each man, woman, and child in America, has to pay, totaling nearly $1,350 per person, or roughly $2,975 per taxpayer. That is at today's interest rates, which will go even higher if we do not get things under control. 
The Congressional Budget Office predicts that in the year 2002, total Federal debt will be more than $6.8 trillion. That means roughly $24,000 of debt for every man, woman, and child in America, with annual interest costs projected to be over $3,100 per taxpayer. 
These last figures would mean a nearly tenfold increase in per-capita debt and a nearly twelvefold increase in annual interest charges per taxpayer since 1975. Over time, the disproportionate burdens imposed on today's children and their children by a continuing pattern of deficits could include some combination of the following: Increased taxes, reduced public welfare benefits, reduced public pensions, reduced expenditures on infrastructure and other public investments, diminished capital formation, diminished job creation, lower productivity enhancement and less real wage growth in the private economy, higher interest rates, higher inflation, increased indebtedness to and economic dependence on foreign creditors, and increased risk of default on our Federal debt. 
Senator Simon would always make this point: If we keep going like we are going, ultimately we are going to have to monetize the debt--that is, print cheap money--where it will cost you a bushelful of dollars to buy a loaf of bread like it did in Germany in the 1930's, and then write off all the debt on cheap dollars. But the United States of America as we know it will be gone at that point. 
Mr. President, this is fiscal child abuse and it must end. But, as I indicated earlier, there is no end in sight. After 4 years of declining deficits--financed partly with the largest tax increase in history--we have not reduced our staggering $5.3 trillion national debt 1 penny. We have only slowed the growth in the national debt. 
More important, as my Republican colleagues and I predicted would happen during the debate on the President's 1993 budget package, the Congressional Budget Office now predicts--and if you look at this chart--it now predicts that annual deficits will resume their upward climb beginning this year from an annual deficit of $124 billion in 1997, to $188 billion in the year 2002, and then exceeding $200 billion the next year and reaching a near record $278 billion high in the year 2007. Even OMB's estimates from the President's newly proposed budget, which predict lower debt totals than CBO, project that gross Federal debt will top $6.6 trillion, exceeding 66 percent of our gross domestic product by the year 2002. 
That means, according to their own estimates, the Clinton administration's self-proclaimed victory in bringing down the deficit will result in an additional $1 trillion or more being added to the national debt between now and the year 2002. 
Mr. President, we do need to do more. It is time for Congress to pass Senate Joint Resolution 1, to permanently restore the fiscal environment in which the competition between tax spenders and taxpayers is a more equal one--one in which spending decisions will once more be constrained by available revenues. The time has come for a solution strong enough that it cannot again be evaded for short-term gain. We need a constitutional requirement to balance our budget. Senate Joint Resolution 1 is that solution. It is reasonable, enforceable, and necessary to force us to get our fiscal house in order. 
There are those who oppose the balanced budget amendment because they say that Congress and the President are already 
committed to balancing the budget by the year 2002. As a matter of rhetoric, that is true; as a matter of what people say, that is true. But as a matter of real world politics, it is clear that the bridge between such rhetoric and reality is a rather long one. 
Since 1978 alone, there have been no fewer than five major statutory regimes enacted which promised to deliver balanced budgets. This includes Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. But there has not been a single balanced budget since 1960. 
Here are the 28 succeeding budgets. In about every one of these it was promised there would be an effort made to balance it, every one of which is unbalanced right up to today. 
Notwithstanding all of these budget plans and the five statutory attempts to require a balanced budget that I have mentioned, the national debt has increased by roughly $4.5 trillion since 1978. In other words, nearly 85 percent of our current national debt has accumulated during the period of time in which Congress has operated within statutory budget frameworks designed to ensure the types of fiscal discipline that would be required under Senate Joint Resolution 1. 
While I support the efforts of the past and commend the dedication expressed by leaders of both political parties to reaching a balanced budget, I seriously doubt whether, without the weight of a constitutional requirement to balance the budget, we will achieve balance by the year 2002. Even if we did, there is nothing to prevent future Congresses from yielding to the inherent political pressures that would lead to renewed deficit spending. We need a constitutional amendment if we are truly committed to solving this problem. 
Mr. President, the proposed constitutional amendment will help us end this dangerous deficit habit in a way that past efforts have not. It will do this by correcting a bias in the present political process which favors ever-increasing levels of Federal Government spending. 
In seeking to reduce spending bias in our present system--fueled largely by the unlimited availability of deficit spending--the major purpose of Senate Joint Resolution 1 is to ensure that under normal circumstances, votes by Congress for increased spending will be accompanied either by votes, A, to reduce other spending programs or, B, to increase taxes to pay for such programs. For the first time since the abandonment of our historical norm of balanced budgets, Congress would be required to cast politically difficult votes as a precondition to politically attractive votes to increase spending. 
The American political process is skewed toward artificially high levels of spending. It is skewed in this direction because Members of Congress have every political incentive to spend money and almost no incentive to forego such spending. It is a fiscal order in which spending decisions have become increasingly divorced from the availability of revenues. 
The balanced budget amendment seeks to restore Government accountability for spending and taxing decisions by forcing Congress to prioritize spending projects within the available resources and by requiring tax increases to be done on the record with record votes. In this way, Congress will be more accountable to the people who pay for the programs, and the American people, including our future generations who must pay for our debts, will be represented in a way they are not now represented. Congress will be forced to justify its spending and taxing decisions as the Framers intended, but as Congress no longer does. 
Senate Joint Resolution 1 represents both responsible fiscal policy and responsible constitutional policy. Passage of this resolution would constitute an appropriate response by Congress to the desires of the people and the States for a constitutional amendment on this issue. 
The Senate must approve Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. It is the right thing to do for ourselves, our children, our grandchildren, and future generations, and it will give us back responsible and accountable constitutional Government. 
The faithful stewardship of public funds that was so prized by our Founding Fathers can be restored for 21st century Americans. 
The virtues of thrift and accountability can be rekindled by this very 105th Congress, so I urge Senators to join with me and the other 61 sponsors of Senate Joint Resolution 1 in support of the bicameral, bipartisan, consensus balanced budget amendment which has taken years to develop and for which we have fought for over 20 years. 
This is the thing to do. This is the chance to do it. This is the chance to do what is right. I hope our colleagues will do so. 
I apologize to my colleague who has been on the floor, who would like to call up an amendment, so I yield the floor to him at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I wish to express my regard for the distinguished Senator from Minnesota. He is very sincere, and he always means well, and, frankly, I care a great deal for him. 
Having said that, I do want to point out that this is a constitutional amendment we are talking about here, and I need to take just a few minutes to respond to some of the comments that my friend and colleague, Senator Wellstone, has made. 
Let me begin by saying that I do not know of any other Member of this body more genuinely concerned about the children in this country and particularly those in poverty, unless it is myself. He works hard for these unfortunate people, these unfortunate kids, as do a lot of us, and I give him credit for that. When Senator Wellstone speaks on these issues, he speaks from his heart, and we all know that. Regardless of the differences on this amendment, you still have to give him credit for that. 
Having said that, Mr. President, the efforts to try to help children by exempting programs that affect them from the balanced budget amendment's purview will have precisely the opposite effect. As a matter of fact, we are throwing their future away unless we pass this amendment. We are saddling them with historic debt that literally is going to cause them to spend the rest of their lives working to get out from under the debt that we in our generation are leaving, or should I say the past generations because it is more than just our generation. 
The Senator has circulated a new section 8 that would become part of this amendment if it was passed. 
Let us have no illusions. Senator Wellstone, the distinguished Senator from Minnesota, is not going to vote for this constitutional amendment no matter what happens, even if we accepted this section. But we could not, because this section says:  
It is the policy of the United States that, in achieving a balanced budget, Federal outlays must not be reduced in a manner that disproportionately affects outlays for education, nutrition, and health programs for poor children. 
He has circulated a whole number of amendments exempting the Women, Infants, and Children Program, a program I support, Head Start, a program I support, and education positions which I support. His current amendment exempts, as it says here, outlays for education, nutrition and health programs for poor children from disproportionate cuts. 
If we care about children in this country--and I know we do; I don't think there is a person in the Senate who would not say that he or she cares--the most important thing we could do is pass this balanced budget amendment. Without it, it is our children and our grandchildren who will inherit the legacy of these astronomical debts, and they are going up by leaps and bounds. It is our children and grandchildren who will be called upon to pay the price for our years of profligacy, and they will pay that price with higher taxes, higher interest rates, fewer jobs, and economic instability. Thus, the amendment that we must support in order to save the children is not one which would gut the balanced budget amendment. To ensure the well-being of future generations, we need to pass the balanced budget amendment. It is the only hope for our children. 
One of the things that is difficult for me to understand is why some would argue or assume that exempting certain programs from the balanced budget regime would somehow save or help those programs. Just the opposite is the case. If there is a program worth preserving, and I suggest those programs are, we ought to make sure these programs are funded responsibly and not with rubber checks. What is the point? Exempt a program from the budget so it would be allowed to go bankrupt on its own? Is that what the point is? That is simply the kind of reasoning that has led us to a $5.3 trillion national debt, going to $5.4 trillion in the next couple of months. 
Mr. President, several self-proclaimed liberals are making these points as well as myself, notably Representative Joseph Kennedy, among others, the Representative from Massachusetts. They have become staunch supporters of the balanced budget amendment. Joe Kennedy is one of them because, as a self-professed liberal, he believes and other liberals believe, who are supportive of the amendment, that balancing the budget is the only way to protect and preserve the worthy programs for the needy. We are not doing anyone any good by bankrupting the Government and spending an increasing amount on interest on debt. Representative Kennedy last week suggested that interest was the primary villain, crowding out good social spending programs. Imagine what we could do with the hundreds of billions of dollars we spend on interest every year? 
No, the way to ensure the preservation and stability of critical programs and help the most needy in our society is to foster fiscal integrity. This is not the first time we have seen an amendment that sought to carve out a loophole in the balanced budget amendment, nor will it be the last. But I would like to ask my colleagues to consider what the balanced budget amendment would look like if we really did exempt all of these different parts of the budget because we like some parts better than others. Anything affecting children, gone; seniors, gone; investments, disasters, all manner of social spending, all gone from the amendment if these folks have their way. So what is left? What would those who propose this barrage of exemptions and loopholes leave under the balanced budget amendment? Absolutely nothing. And everybody on 
this floor has some favorite program, that is what has led us to this morass and this mess. We all would like to save something. We all would like to do something. 
I have to say, it is pretty hard to fight against children's programs. I don't know anybody who wants to do that, and if they have to compete, they will compete very well and respectably for their share of the Federal budget. They always have and they will. I have to admit, I wish there was more money for these programs. I wish I could do more for those programs. But the best thing I think I can do for them is pass a balanced budget amendment that puts the fiscal responsibility into this system. 
Look, what do they leave under the balanced budget amendment? Nothing? That is what it all comes down to. These kind of amendments tug at the heartstrings of all Americans, and they try to make those who sponsor the balanced budget amendment look mean. But the truth is, if you really care about children, senior citizens, and disaster victims, you will vote for the balanced budget amendment. You will vote for a Federal Government with the fiscal strength to be there for them. You will vote for a balanced budget amendment because, without that, you will never be able to protect these programs and these people. And you will vote for a balanced budget amendment without loopholes such as the distinguished Senator from Minnesota is sincerely advocating here, because everybody deserves a balanced budget amendment. I hope we reject these amendments and pass Senate Joint Resolution 1 as it is before us. 
Additionally, I am not clear on the effect of the amendment of the distinguished Senator from Minnesota. This Wellstone amendment states that it is the policy of the United States that, in achieving a balanced budget, there should not be disproportionate cuts to poor children's programs. What is this, a sense-of-the-Constitution resolution? Is that what we put in the Constitution? I don't think so. 
I know it is not intended as an insult, but it kind of is, in a way, by suggesting we are not going to do right by our children. The distinguished Senator says we are not doing right now by our children because there is just not enough money. I can agree with that. I can agree I wish we had more money, I wish we could solve every social program there is. But no nation on Earth has ever completely solved them, and certainly no nation that is not fiscally responsible. And ours is the most fiscally responsible Nation in the world, or at least it has been up to the last 60 years. 
In the last 60 years--in just the last 28 years, we have had 28 straight unbalanced budgets that are demonstrated by this. We have two piles here, one behind the other. It would be a lot higher than double my size if we put the other pile on top of this one. These are unbalanced budgets over each of the last 28 years. That is only part of it. We have only balanced the budget 8 times in 66 years. No wonder we cannot do enough for our children. No wonder we do not have the money to take care of these social needs. It is going to get worse and the people who are going to get hurt the most are children. 
Look at Social Security. When I talk to seniors, there are those who want to take Social Security out of the purview of the balanced budget amendment, and that will be one of the big votes on this amendment. I talk to seniors. They are concerned about children, too, and they are concerned that most all the social spending now is going towards seniors, and very few dollars are going to children. Part of that is because we do not have a fiscally responsible Congress that has to try and divvy up the money so they work in the best interests of all Americans. 
Now, we have had a Congress that just said, `Just keep borrowing and just keep spending and you can just keep doing that ad infinitum, forever.' We all know that is not the case. Our priorities do shift from time to time. 
Again, I get back to the Wellstone amendment, is this a 
sense-of-the-Constitution resolution? What does `disproportionate' mean? My gosh, do you realize what constitutional authorities would do with a word like that? What does that mean? Does this limit across-the-board budget cutting? Is that what it does? Our priorities shift from time to time, as we do the budgets. Congress has to be free to allocate resources within a balanced budget rule. It has to be free to do that. We cannot write something like this into the Constitution. 
How do we decide what is disproportionate? To senior citizens, they might think that spending on children is disproportionate, rather than spending on them. To children's advocates, spending on seniors is disproportionate to what we should be spending on children. We have to battle these things out. That is what we are elected to do. But we need to do it within the constraints of a balanced budget amendment so we really get down to the matter of setting priorities. 
I happen to believe if we set priorities, the distinguished Senator from Minnesota will be right in there pitching for the priorities of children, and so will I. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I think we will be able to win on this, to the extent we have the votes to win it. 
Furthermore, on this disproportionate business, how do we decide which programs affect children? Do we do it on the basis of program title, or by surveying recipients to see the actual use of the money? Is that how we do it? 
Madam President, it is pretty clear that if you put something like this in the Constitution, you create more problems than you solve. It's pretty clear that if you start advocating for any one select part of the budget to be outside the budget, because you want that protected from budgetary restraint, that you are hurting everybody. It's pretty clear if you prefer one group over another, you're going to have a lot of conflict among groups. 
If you do that, you darn well better do it within a balanced budget constraint, so the people know what is going on, and not just think the money is going to come from somewhere, which is about the attitude we have had around here for the last 60 years, and certainly for the last 28 years, every year we had an unbalanced budget. And in current years, where we said this is a balanced budget for the first time--give me a break, not one of them has been and nobody has thought any would be. 
I have to tell you, I think it is going to be a budget charade this year as well. The President's budget, according to CBO, is already $66 billion in debt, and the budget will be balanced in the year 2002, that is assuming current interest rates, that is assuming current rosy scenarios, that is assuming we continue to have no minor or major recession. All of those things are ifs. 
We should reject this and similar amendments and pass the balanced budget amendment that will lead a stronger future for our children and grandchildren away from bankruptcy and debt, which is where we are headed if we don't get smart and do what is right. To exempt anything from the budget is almost an insult to everybody who serves. It is an insult to everybody who serves in the Congress. 
We are here to try and do what is right. I believe the distinguished Senator from Minnesota, myself and others, who similarly feel the depth of these problems, will be able to fight very, very well for these particular items in the budget, but within a balanced-budget concept. If we do that, I think we will have more money in the end, more real dollars to help children than we are going to have if we don't pass this balanced budget amendment. So I hope that our colleagues will vote this down. 
Just so people will know right off the bat, I probably am going to move to table every amendment that comes up. I don't want anybody to feel badly about it. We think that is the only orderly way to proceed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to yield for a comment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. That is what we have always done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will only be a minute. I will say this, I agree with the Senator. The fact we move to table an amendment doesn't necessarily mean the substance of that amendment or the substance of that vote should be ignored. It is just a procedural way of handling the matter that I think we are going to have to do in an orderly way. But I think the vote will still mean who voted for it and who voted against. I always felt that way. I don't have any problem with that. 
I also would just like to say that I don't think there are any blood oaths around here either. I hope some Democrats who have cosponsored and my fellow Republicans will vote to sustain the motions to table, but I don't know of any blood oaths, nor do I know of any all-profound commitments that people have made. I just believe that people know this game is about to come to an end and that this is a chance to pass a balanced budget amendment to put our fiscal affairs in order, and that this is the last chance. This involves both Republicans and Democrats who have worked hard to come up with this consensus amendment in the best interest of our country. I understand there are different sincerely held beliefs on this matter. But in any event, I do not agree with my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes, I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, it may not be to the distinguished Senator from Minnesota, but I really believe it is time to pass a balanced budget amendment, and this is the context in which this is in. 
With regard to tabling, we have always done it and intend to table the amendments if we can, and that is a right that we have. It is not meant to hurt the Senator or his position, it is just a matter of procedural choice, which I--and I just want to make it clear up front--will probably do on all, if not most all, amendments that come before the body on this matter. 
I realize the distinguished Senator from Minnesota is very sincere, that he would not bring this amendment to the floor if he didn't mean it and it wasn't meaningful to him. I am not meaning to disparage his amendment at all, other than I think it would be a terrible way of writing the Constitution, putting words in the Constitution that would be almost impossible to define and I think would, basically, gut the constitutional amendment. 
Even if we put it in, even if somehow or another we could find some way of putting it in the amendment, I don't believe we would have the vote of the Senator from Minnesota anyway. 
To make a long story short, it is one of a long series of amendments that are intended to defeat the balanced budget amendment, and I hope my colleagues will vote to table.  
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I know there are 2 minutes left before we end debate on this amendment. I acknowledge my colleague is sincere. It does not negate the fact we have to live within budget constraints or this country will go down and children will be the first to be hurt. That is why this amendment is so important. You cannot make any exceptions. 
If you make exceptions, then it does not become important. It does not work and it will not be the constraint that we need, it will not be the fiscal discipline, that it will make a difference whether this country really continues to be the greatest country in the world or not and whether it can do for children and families what we would all like to do. The best thing we can do is pass this amendment and pass it without exceptions, like my good friend who is very sincere thinks we ought to do. 
I just want to bring that to the attention of everybody, that it takes guts to stand up and do what is fiscally responsible, because it is easier to offer spending through all these constituencies then it is to have to make priority choices. This amendment will force us to make priority choices. I think that is critical in any kind of nation that really wants to call itself great. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I yield 8 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Colorado, so he can finish his statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, the Senator from North Dakota has been very eloquent. The problem is that what he seems to be arguing for is a continuation of the status quo. For instance, on Social Security, at the very time he is arguing that it is immoral and that it is a rape of the trust, that it is a ripoff to keep Social Security within the purview of the balanced budget amendment, he supports a President who is doing exactly that. 
That is what the President's budget does. That is what every budget of every President has done ever since we started the unified budget system. And it just makes little or no sense to take it out of the Federal budget, out of the unified system, because if it cannot stand on its own, which Social Security can, then why would we make any selectivity. The fact is it is a gimmick to take it off budget, and it is a risky gimmick at that. What they are trying to do is really defeat the balanced budget amendment. 
Then to argue that we have to take care of economic emergencies, well, what are economic emergencies? I must be able to list at least 3,000 of them right now that could occur to which everybody could argue that the balanced budget amendment does not apply. 
It is one thing to argue for the status quo. I have seen 28 years of it. I have been here 21 of the 28 years. And I have to admit I fought for a balanced budget every one of those years, and there have been a number of us who have done so, but we have been in a distinct minority as unbalanced budget after unbalanced budget has been passed. 
Now they are saying let us keep the status quo. Even though this gimmick is going to take Social Security off budget and subject to all budgetary matters, we should take it out of the balanced budget amendment, as though Social Security cannot stand on its own. Come on. That would be one of the most risky things we could do. Every item ought to be on budget. 
Social Security is the largest item in the Federal budget. It ought to be in the budget. And we can work around the problems that are concerning the Senator from North Dakota and others who argue that. To talk about economic emergencies and try to write that into the Constitution, everybody knows that is a gutting amendment that would destroy the balanced budget amendment. 
To say that you cannot get a three-fifths vote is an insult to everybody who believes in this country and who is patriotic and who really believes that the country should go forward. If we have a true economic emergency, we will be able to get the three-fifths vote, and there will be a lot of us who are conservative who will be voting for the three-fifths vote. 
The fact of the matter is if it does not measure up, then that three-fifths vote will not be granted. And a lot of these very same people will be saying, `Oh, this is the most important thing in the world,' as we go into another year of unbalanced budgets. That is what we have been doing. 
I hear these people saying, `Oh, we can do it. Just do it. Just do it.' I have heard that for 21 solid years. We have never done it yet in the last 28 years. What makes us think that `let's do it' means we are going to do it the next year. The fact is the President's budget is not going to be in balance, according to the CBO; the one he sent us is not balanced. And keep in mind the last 2 years are where all of the budget cuts have to occur in order to be in balance, according to the President, or there will not be any tax relief to the American people. 
So, look, we know that these amendments are intended to gut the balanced budget amendment. People who are arguing for them may 
be doing it sincerely, and I presume they are. But they are people who are not going to vote for this balanced budget amendment no matter what we do. They are not for it no matter what we do. We heard the distinguished Senator from Minnesota. Why, he has four or five major items that he would exclude from any budgetary restraint. There are others who would exclude Social Security from any budgetary restraint. And there are 98 others in this body who would also like to exclude some of their special projects. 
The best we can do is work together on the unified budget and face the music and make priority choices within a budgetary constraint system, and if we do that we will save this country, we will protect our children, protect our seniors, protect those who need it, and we can. Otherwise, we are going to monetize the debt in order to stave off bankruptcy, and that means ruining our country, having interest rates going out of sight and inflation through the roof. 
We are talking about saving the country right now. That is what we are talking about. With these gutting amendments, if any of them pass, the balanced budget amendment will become a lot less effective. 
I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield on that point, just on that point? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. If the Senator would. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I listened to these arguments, and I did not make the argument that we should have Social Security in the balanced budget amendment because the President is doing it. Everybody has done it because it is a unified budget that requires everything to be on budget. And on the other side of that coin, starting about the year 2014 Social Security goes in deep deficit. What are we going to do, keep that off budget so that we do not have to face the music, so we can keep borrowing? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will use my own time. I am sorry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. The fact of the matter is, you cannot budget without putting everything on budget and you cannot handle it right. And the President is doing what the Secretary of Treasury said he should do, and that is keep all items on budget. There are 31 trust accounts, at least in the Federal Government. Are we going to take them all off because somebody makes the unfounded allegation that we are ripping off the trust funds? The fact is, the only way not to rip them off is to keep everything on budget. And that is a pretty important point. 
I do not see how you can argue to take it off budget. 
It just makes sense that we face all the music here, not just part of it, and that we do not make any exceptions so that we have to make priority choices if we are going to have a balanced budget amendment. 
The Senator is right on one thing and that is this amendment does not require a balanced budget. We can choose not to balance the budget. All we need to do is get a supermajority. 
This is not a pure democracy in this country. This is a representative democracy, and the Senate is a perfect illustration of how we do not always have a majority vote. The fact of the matter is, each State has two Senators, regardless of population, and that gives a disproportionate amount of voting power to some States over others. 
The House of Representatives is a purer democratic body, and our Founding Fathers in their wisdom understood this. They also would understand, if you are going to do a balanced budget amendment, you have to keep everything on budget. And it still does not rebut my point, which is that this is a gutting amendment. This amendment basically says when we have an economic emergency we can go off budget, the amendment does not apply. Again, I ask you, what is an economic emergency? There is a wide disparity of belief as to what is, and we provide for a way around that by a three-fifths vote, which I think, in a true economic emergency, will be easily obtained here and should be easily obtained here. 
In response to the supermajority requirement, the Senator from North Dakota raises the vote on war, a military threat. Senate Joint Resolution 1 provides a lower threshold for votes to waive the balanced budget rule in times of war or national security emergency. With regard to economic emergencies, during the past 15 years Congress has passed emergency unemployment compensation by supermajorities every time but once, and it can be legitimately argued that the once was a time when they should not have. Disaster relief has been enacted by a similar supermajority every time except twice over the last 7 years. 
What is wrong with requiring people who have not balanced a budget in 28 years and who keep saying the same things, what is wrong with requiring some fiscal restraint of these people? It is apparent that Congress is not going to live with fiscal restraint unless it is imposed upon them, and the only way we can impose it--after five tries in the last few years of budget restraint by statute, none of which have worked--the only way you can impose it is through an amendment to the Constitution that everybody in this body and in the other body is sworn to uphold. I think it is just that simple. 
There is room for legitimate disagreement here, I am sure. I do not mean to imply that my colleagues are not sincere in every word that they are saying. But, on the other hand, I think those of us, the vast majority in this body, who will vote for this are sincere as well. We have seen 28 years of sincerity. People were sincere in trying to get balanced budgets during those years, but they did not do it. The reason they did not do it is because they did not have to do it and it was easy to borrow. It was a lot easier to borrow and mortgage the future of our children than it was to face the music. Our amendment will require we face the music. 
I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I hear the distinguished Senator, but what he fails to say is that we are continuing that system without any restraint if we do not pass the balanced budget amendment. I think the Senator from North Dakota, not deliberately, has made several misleading statements, to some of which I would like to respond. 
He says the balanced budget amendment does not balance the budget if it does not exclude Social Security. Of course he fails to mention that in the long run everyone knows Social Security is going to run huge deficits and that it is not always going to run surpluses. This tends to balance out. If we follow his suggestion, we do nothing but continue the current system. His own President is including Social Security because he has to, because it is part of the overall unified budget. By the time today's children are retiring, Social Security will be running annual deficits of $7 trillion each year. Unless we keep Social Security on the budget and make it work and resolve it, in current dollars, it will be a $7 trillion deficit a year. 
He also fails to mention that this huge deficit would not count under the Social Security amendment that he supports. The amendment he supports would call this $7 trillion deficit a balanced budget. You talk about hoax; I don't see how anybody can argue that. Yet they do. The fact is, we are in trouble and what are we going to do? Just the status quo? Just keep doing year after year what we are doing; mortgaging our children's future and making it so this, the greatest country in the world, becomes the least great country in the world? That is where we are headed if we do not do something about it. 
The Senator from North Dakota also described the balanced budget amendment as looting Social Security. What a half-truth. The balanced budget amendment does not touch one penny in Social Security. That whole argument is nothing more than an accounting preference. The Social Security trust funds will be still invested in the greatest securities in the world, and that is American securities, U.S. Treasury bills, if you will. That is the only thing they can be invested in. That is going to happen whether we pass a balanced budget amendment or if we do not. So, this is a phony argument and, frankly, it would be literally--literally--a risky, risky gimmick to take Social Security out of the major budget because, on the one hand, there are surpluses today, but they are all invested in American securities. Starting about the year 2013, we have huge deficits; not surpluses, but deficits. Should we take it out when we have surpluses and not put it in when we have deficits? No. You keep it in all the time and you work with it and you do what is right. That is what the Secretary of the Treasury did. That is what he suggested. That is what he said is the right way to do it. By the way, that is also what the President just did in sending up his budget. 
So, if we do nothing here, we have business as usual, another, a 29th, year of unbalanced budgets. I would feel a lot better if some of these people who are bringing up these amendments would be voting for the balanced budget amendment. But, no, these are amendments to gut the balanced budget amendment. 
I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I would like to recognize the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire, but first let me take 1 minute. 
I heard the dialog between the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts and the distinguished Senator from Illinois, and I have to say that I am fully familiar with all those groups. And about 78 percent of the American people--between 68 and 78 percent of the American people--have always been for this balanced budget amendment. They come from all walks of life, from every group. The reason they do is they are deathly afraid that if we do not get this spending under control, the very people that my good friends have been talking about are going to be hurt the most. There is no question about it. 
To just keep arguing that we can continue to do business as usual, as has been argued here, that is the biggest joke of all. 
I yield 15 minutes to the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire. 
Mr. BOB SMITH. I thank my colleague from Utah for yielding and thank him for his strong leadership on this issue which he has done for so many years as we wait to see the long hoped for amendment finally reach passage. 
I was somewhat taken by the comments on the Durbin amendment made by my colleague. This is again an effort obviously to weaken the amendment. It is an interesting question about what an economic recession would be. How would one define it? Would it be just a general feeling of anxiety about the economy? Would that be an economic recession? 
I might also add, that in difficult economic times you will see areas of the country where certain pockets of the country, certain areas of the country there would be an economic downturn and other areas there may be an economic upswing. So the areas of the country where there is an economic downturn, how do we define where the amendment and when the amendment would kick in? 
It is obviously a weakening amendment. It is interesting, Mr. President, that for years and years and years we have heard from the critics, we do not need this amendment. We do not need a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. All we have to do is balance it. We have not done it yet. So I am waiting. And those people who say that we ought to do that, without the amendment, keep offering amendments to weaken what we are trying to do. 
This is a very historic debate that we are in today. Not only is it historic in the sense that there have been a number of efforts in the past to have a balanced budget amendment, but it is historic in the sense that if we fail, our children are going to pay the consequences. I think they are going to judge us not in a very kind way if, in the future, in the outyears, if they look back upon this time when we had a chance to deal with this in the Constitution and did not do it. 
I am pleased and proud to be on the side of Senator Hatch in this debate. I think he is on the side of the American people. Frankly, not only the American people today, but tomorrow and for many, many years to come. We have had a number of efforts, starting in 1935 in the 74th Congress. That was the first measure designed to require an annually balanced budget, and introduced by a Democrat, Senator Tydings of Maryland. The next year, the first proposed amendment to balance the budget constitutionally was by Harold Knutson of Minnesota, a Republican, in 1936. It was a bipartisan idea, and it began as early as 1935. Since then, we have had some 30 measures that in some form or another have come before this Congress. 
The balanced budget amendment is not a Republican proposal. It is a bipartisan proposal. It always has been. Not only have all Senate Republicans cosponsored the resolution, but many Democrats have, as well--not as many as we would like, but many have. We hope we will get the other two or three that we might need. 
Senate Joint Resolution 1 was approved by the Judiciary Committee with the support of three Democrats--Biden, Torricelli, and Kohl. In addition, six other Democrats, Bryan, Graham, Baucus, Breaux, Moseley-Braun, and Robb, as well as Senator Kohl. So we have bipartisan support. This is not a partisan issue. Preserving the United States of America for our children is not a partisan issue. 
Former Senator Paul Simon remains a very active and vocal proponent of the amendment and helped to lead the fight here on the floor 2 years ago when it was up on the floor. Perhaps even more recently, the late Senator Paul Tsongas, whom we all knew and respected, who recently passed away, stated: `What you have here is a sad case of pursuit of self as opposed to pursuit of what is in the national interest. The balanced budget amendment is simply a recognition of that human behavior.' Paul Tsongas was right. 
Secretary of Education Richard Riley was the Governor of South Carolina. He stated: 
I have opposed the amendment in the past, thinking it was a `political cop-out.' The deficit problem has gotten so bad, that I have now decided to support it. 
That is the issue here. It has gotten bad. We have not had the political courage, collectively, to balance the budget. You can say all you want, that we do not have to put it in the Constitution, but while we say that, the debt keeps going up, and it is now $5 trillion. Where do we stop, $50 trillion? When we get to $10 trillion, we will not be able to service the debt because a $10 trillion debt will cost you $1 trillion in interest alone. The entire Federal budget is a little over $1.5 trillion, so two-thirds of the budget will be interest if we continue along this line. It needs bipartisan support, and I am glad that it has it. I hope it has enough. 
The last time the Federal Government had a balanced budget was 1969. The total debt was $366 billion. Today, it is $5 trillion. In less than 10 or 12 years, it will be almost $10 trillion if we continue with the current rate of spending. 
Yet, we still have those who come to the floor and say we do not need an amendment, we do not need to clutter the Constitution. The Founding Fathers knew what they were doing; they did not put it in there; we do not need it; we can balance the budget. When? Each year that the Federal Government spends more than it takes in, billions are added to the overwhelming weight of our national debt. 
Even if we pass this, by the time we get things in order, we will add hundreds of billions of dollars to the debt, Mr. President. In fiscal year 1998, we will pay approximately $1 billion a day--$1 billion a day--in interest on the debt. In the fiscal year 1997, the gross interest we pay to the service of debt will total $360 billion, the second largest expenditure in the entire budget. It is $100 billion more than we spend on defense. Mr. President, $100 billion more than we spend on defense we spend to service the debt in 1997. 
What could we have done with all the money we have paid to service that debt? Now, that is a very interesting topic. We get criticized a lot here in the Senate for fantasizing. Let me fantasize about what we could do with all that money. 
I came to Congress in 1985. What if we had passed a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution that year and achieved balance in 1990? Imagine what we could have been doing with that money, which by now would have accumulated to $1.7 trillion. We could have built 97 space stations. We could have increased funding for the EPA 261 times. Imagine the potential of crime control programs if the Department of Justice just received 98 times more than this year's level. If we balanced 
the budget in 1985 and continued the current rate of spending, we could have done all of those things. If you did not like them, fund something else. 
What if Congress had balanced the budget in 1970 and kept it balanced? That was the year after we started the deficit spending. What if we actually had a $5 trillion surplus? We could preserve both Medicare and the Social Security Program for our children. Veterans benefits and services could be increased by 116 times. We could provide tax refunds instead of tax increases. Instead of imposing fees to enter our parks, we could increase funding for national parks by 4,000 times. 
So when you hear the people come to the floor and say it does not matter, we do not need to clutter the Constitution, that is not cluttering the Constitution. That is a well-needed amendment. Had we done this in 1970--true, we would not need the amendment. That is why we have the amendment process, Mr. President. The U.S. Constitution should be amended only in the gravest of times, only when it is necessary. How much graver can you get than the kind of debt we are passing on to our children? How much graver can you get than a $10 to $15 to $20 trillion debt? That is where we are headed. 
It has been changed 27 times, this Constitution. It affects every single Government activity and all Federal spending and touches the life of every man, woman, and child in our Nation, this issue of debt. A constitutional requirement makes it impossible for Congress to shirk its duty to make responsible fiscal decisions. That is what this debate is about: discipline by a constitutional requirement. No copout. You cannot have Senators coming on the floor, giving all these excuses, because it is in the Constitution. So they will have to do it. We may disagree on what we want to cut or what we have to do to balance that budget. We may disagree on that, and we will have that debate, vote, and take our lumps one way or the other, but we have to do it. We have to do it. That is what we have to do now. Congress will have to come up with cures for the Nation's financial woes, not just Band-Aids, and not just words. 
In a very few years, Mr. President--I am sure Senator Hatch and others have said this on the floor--in a very few years, interest rates on the debt plus entitlements will equal 100 percent of the Federal budget. That is the good news. The bad news is it is continuing to expand, that interest is consuming more and more and more of that pie, including the entitlement pie, because, theoretically, if we do not stop it, it will consume everything. If you think of your homes, your businesses, you can only go to the bank so many times and then they put the stop on, the cap on the credit card, the cap on your credit, and say, `Now you have to live within your means,' that is what this amendment will force this Congress to do. 
Despite compelling evidence of the need for immediate deficit control, legislative budget controls have failed to produce a budget surplus since 1969. We tried it with Gramm-Rudman. It sounded good. What happened? When we went to the sequester, when the rubber hit the road and we had to make the decision, we changed the law. We copped out. You cannot change this law. If we pass it into the Constitution, it is constitutional, you have to do it. 
Deficit spending is no mystery, although some would prefer it remain so. In fact, on Thursday, the Senator from North Dakota displayed a chart titled, `We Cut the Deficit in Half.' While it is true that the deficit projections are decidedly better than the May 1996 estimates, what actually accounts for the rosier outlook? The welfare reform legislation we passed last year had the greatest budgetary impact of any piece of legislation passed by the 104th Congress, according to CBO. This was the bill which President Clinton had to be dragged kicking and screaming to sign. 
And he apologized for signing it, but he signed it. That is the important thing. In addition, in his recent budget request, the President now proposes to add $22 billion in new spending to that welfare bill. Yet, he wants us to trust legislative remedies. Legislative remedies don't work, folks, because of human nature--the temptation to spend. 
With a balanced budget constitutional amendment, we don't have to worry about the whims and indulgences of a President, or Congresses, in years to come. Congress would have to stick to a strict budget just like American families and businesses. We need to pass this amendment. We need to pass it now. We should have passed it years ago. We could have passed it 2 years ago. We lost by one vote. All we are doing, my colleagues, is giving the American people a chance to have this go to their State legislatures so that they, then, can act to either approve or disapprove what we do. We are giving them the opportunity. 
Over the last 60 years, total Federal expenditures have increased by more than 800 percent. By 2020, if we do not raise taxes, we can zero out all Federal spending, except interest on the debt, and still not balance the budget. That is why we need it now. 
Now, it's interesting that when we think about balancing the budget, we think about it in terms that are perhaps away from home--this big issue balancing the Federal budget, don't spend this or that. Let me give an example. In New Hampshire, my State, the average citizen pays as much as $38,000 more on a 30-year mortgage for an $80,000 home as a result of the budget being out of balance. A student in New Jersey pays almost $9,000 more toward a 10-year loan. In just 1 year, a car owner in South Dakota could save $180 on an average auto loan, if we balance the budget and keep it balanced. The Concord Coalition estimates that the average family's income is $15,000-plus a year lower because of the deficits of the past 20 years. It impacts everyone--whether you work or don't, whether you have children or whether you don't. We can improve wages. We can create jobs. A 2-point cut in interest rates would not only reduce loan payments for families, but it would produce more jobs, perhaps 4 1/2 million more in 10 years. For businesses, a 2-point percentage reduction in rates would lower investment costs and enhance the incentive to invest. 
I don't want to have to explain to my children someday, as we look back on this debate, why I stood here and mortgaged away their future. I am standing on this floor today, proudly in the sense that I support this amendment, but in a way ashamed that we have to. A baby born today can expect that over $187,000 of his or her lifetime income will be used just to pay interest on the debt--$187,000. 
Paul Tsongas, our former colleague, described Congress' deficit spending as `generationally immoral.' He was right. He was right a lot. I wish some of the colleagues on the other side of the aisle would have listened to their former colleague. We must look for a real long-term solution to address the retirement of the baby boom generation and the explosion of entitlement programs that will accompany this shift. We must not push off these disasters and leave them to my children and your children to solve. In simple terms, when we all shuffle off this planet at some time--hopefully, later rather than sooner--you would probably like to leave your assets to your children. Do you sit up at night and dream about leaving them your debts, your mortgage, your car payments? Or would you like to leave whatever you were able to build up as assets? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-23-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 2 more minutes to the Senator from New Hampshire. 
Mr. BOB SMITH. I thank my colleague. The conclusion is that there is a light at the end of this tunnel. You know what stands 
in the way of that light, Mr. President? About three votes--three votes. Maybe two. Senator Hatch is counting the votes. I haven't been counting them all. But it's two or three votes, two or three U.S. Senators who are probably on the fence. That is the difference. That is how close it is. We lost it by one vote 2 years ago. 
Votes do matter. That is the difference between trillions in more debt and mortgaging our future or not. Senator Rudman, my New Hampshire colleague, said to me one time, `There are only two things that can happen if we don't stop this insane process. First, we can continue to deficit spend and just cause sheer chaos when we can't pay our bills and go bankrupt. Or, second, we can print more money and sit around with 200, 300 percent inflation.' We should all think about what that would do to our daily lives. 
There is no other option if we don't balance the budget. It is insane. Every American--man, woman, and child--in this country knows it is insane. They know it. You know you would not put up with it with your school board, your business, or your local government, town government; but you let the Federal Government, the Congress men and women spend you into oblivion. There is a light at the end of the tunnel, and I hope that the U.S. Senate and the Senators won't block that light. I hope this month the Senate will show the American people that they are interested in the future of our country and our children. Thank you very much.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-24-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, what we need to do for families is to resist the higher interest costs on the mortgages, student loans, consumer purchases, auto loans, et cetera. If Congress can get its fiscal house in order, more jobs will be created and those jobs will be more secure. If Congress stops borrowing so much, we will have a more stable economy, which, of course, can help us to avoid these economic downturns in the first place. The only way we are going to get there is to quit piling the 29th unbalanced budget and the 30th and the 31st on top of each other. 
The fact of the matter is the balanced budget amendment is flexible enough to respond to most needs--in fact, all needs. Put it that way. But it is serious enough to stop Congress from continuing the pattern of borrowing year after year which has kept the economy from growing as well as it could have. 
My colleague from Illinois has introduced an amendment that seeks to waive the provisions of Senate Joint Resolution 1 for any fiscal year in which there is an economic recession or serious economic emergency. As such, the Durbin amendment seeks to avoid the three-fifths vote required by Senate Joint Resolution 1 to waive the balanced budget rule. This three-fifths majority was placed in the balanced budget amendment so that a simple majority of the Congress could not run deficits except in important situations--those recognized by a supermajority of the Members. Efforts such as the Durbin amendment would blow a huge hole in the balanced budget amendment. 
The terms used in the Durbin amendment is undefined. The determination of an economic recession or serious economic emergency could easily be manipulated by a spendthrift Congress as a way to avoid the discipline of the balanced budget amendment. Thus, the amendment would create a giant loophole that would swallow the balanced budget rule. 
Remember, also, that if the balanced budget amendment is waived for a recession, it is waived for all spending in that year. In other words, this amendment would permit deficit spending for any number of wasteful projects that are in no way related to the so-called economic emergency. Just remember President Clinton's 1993 attempt to push through a multi-billion dollar boondoggle under the guise of trying to end a recession which had in fact already ended. In short, Mr. President, if you take your finger out of the hole in the dike, the whole town is going to be flooded. 
One of the arguments made in favor of this amendment is that without it, the balanced budget amendment will somehow inhibit the functioning of the so-called automatic stabilizers. Mr. President, I believe the importance of automatic stabilizers has been overstated and, in any case, the balanced budget amendment will not inhibit their functioning. Moreover, the Durbin amendment does not respond to the concerns raised about the automatic stabilizers. It simply allows Congress to avoid the balanced budget rule by a lower threshold. 
Just to be clear on what these stabilizers are supposed to do, the notion of automatic stabilizers has to do primarily with the belief that in an economic downturn, there is a decrease in tax revenues and a concomitant increase in unemployment compensation and other welfare payments. 
The claim that the automatic stabilizers have moderated the business cycle is based on the assumption that the relative increases in Government spending associated with automatic stabilizers causes automatic, effective counter-cyclical fiscal policy. It is argued that such increased spending is the key to moderating both the depth and length of recessions and that the balanced budget amendment will prevent that spending from occurring. 
I believe the characterization of the effectiveness of the automatic stabilizers has been overstated. 
When appearing before the Senate Budget Committee just last month, CBO Director June O'Neill was asked a question about the relationship between automatic stabilizers and the apparent moderation in the business cycle over the last half-century. She cited better monetary policy and the Nation's move from away an agricultural based economy, with the inherent ups and downs that go along with agriculture, as factors at least as important as automatic stabilizers in minimizing recessions. Additionally, the move to a service economy and better inventory management practices have reduced the fluctuations associated with inventory overstocks and the factory economy. 
Further, a financial markets expert pointed out to the Judiciary Committee that the primary reasons why the business cycle has moderated in recent years are, first, monetary policy, which is controlled by the Federal Reserve Board; and second, the increasing efficiency of private markets, because of better information and other factors. These have nothing to do with automatic stabilizers or fiscal policy. 
It is relatively well-recognized that the perceived moderation of the business cycle over recent decades is due to many factors. For example, a December 2, 1996 article in the Washington Post affirmed, `The success in finally halting the U.S. economic roller-coaster has been the result of many elements * * *' 
The Post article cited `new technologies, the deregulation of many industries, and the increased globalization of business and finance,' as some of the most important changes that helped stabilize our economy. Global trade enables us to export what would otherwise be oversupply thus avoiding a bust cycle. 
Further, that article quoted Herb Stein, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors, who noted that `[b]ecause the economy is so big and so diversified and so open to the world economy, a shock would have less impact now.' Thus, an event that may have sent the country into a recession in 1890 would only be a localized disturbance today. 
Another major factor in helping to tranquilize recessions that the Post recognized is that we are no longer on the gold standard. `After the United States was no longer obligated to defend the price of gold, and the nation's deficits in international transactions could be financed easily by that world capital market, the Fed had far more ability to set interest rates according to the needs of the domestic economy.' 
So while these automatic stabilizers may have had some effect, there are clearly many other major factors that have brought our economy to the level of consistency we enjoy today. 
Certainly the automatic stabilizers are no justification for balancing the budget only eight times in the last 65 years. Let's face it. Our deficits have not been countercyclical, they have been counterproductive. While business cycles have come and gone over the last four decades, our deficit habit has not. Our deficits are structural and largely permanent, not cyclical. 
I also want to note that the notion of a country spending itself out of a recession is now rejected by many economists. One commentator has wryly stated that the theory of spending and borrowing out of a recession `is the game-plan that propelled Argentina and Bolivia to economic superpower status in the 1970's.' More recently, Japan has tried to do this and the result has been continued recession and larger debt. On the other hand, a number of the world's up-and-coming countries are enjoying booming economies while keeping their national budget in balance or even surplus. Perhaps we should be more concerned that we do not spend ourselves out of prosperity. 
But even if we assume that automatic stabilizers are important, Mr. President, the balanced budget amendment will not impede their use. 
The balanced budget amendment in no way prevents us from running a small surplus, which could be used to offset the effects of an economic downturn, thus avoiding a deficit. In fact, a number of experts the Judiciary Committee has heard over the years have suggested we do so. Fred Bergsten, a noted economist and former Treasury Department official, suggests we create a habit of regularly shooting for a small surplus, rather than absolute balance, which will allow us to use fiscal policy within the balanced budget rule better than we can now without it, with chronic, structural deficits. 
Even if we drop below an intended annual rainy day surplus, the balanced budget amendment has anticipated this sort of need. A three-fifths vote in Congress will allow the balanced budget rule to be suspended for a year. That way, we have the flexibility to run reasonable deficits if we need to. The three-fifths requirement makes sure that we do not waive the amendment unless it is a true need and not just an attempt to avoid the tough choices. 
Some have suggested that the necessary three-fifths will be hard to come by. The history of the votes in Congress demonstrate that in actual circumstances of economic need, the Congress has had little difficulty achieving the vote that would be required under the balanced budget amendment, despite the fact that no such requirement was in place. 
The Congress has voted a number of times to extend the emergency unemployment compensation program. During the past 15 years, according to the Congressional Research Service, there is only one instance where the extension of this important program failed to garner a supermajority of votes in either Chamber. Indeed, in many cases even higher supermajority requirements would have been fulfilled. In times of real need, Congress will get a three-fifths vote. 
Some have also argued that the Durbin amendment is needed because Congress is too slow to respond to recessions. Well, they are half right. Congress is too slow to respond to recessions. Almost everyone agrees that when Congress tries to spend the country out of an economic downturn, their attempt either has little effect or they make things worse by spending as the economy is already recovering and then sowing the seeds of a future recession. 
But the Durbin amendment does nothing to address this concern. It does not speed up congressional action--I'm not sure anything can. All it does is change the vote required from three-fifths to a majority. And since history clearly shows that we get the three-fifths when we need it, all this amendment would do is make it easier to waive the balanced budget rule when we don't really need it. 
Finally, Mr. President, when he introduced his amendment the Senator from Illinois told a story about a friend who needed temporary help from the Government in his transition from one job to another. There is no doubt that this is a meaningful and laudable use of our precious resources. 
But it seems to me that we do all the working people of America a lot more good if we balance the budget, and thus reduce the number of recessions that they must endure, than if we create a loophole in the balanced budget amendment to allow future Congresses to easily increase the already crushing burden of debt. We ought to be less concerned about when we can spend more, and more concerned about when we must spend less. 
Senator Durbin's amendment seeks to waive the provisions of Senate Joint Resolution 1 for any fiscal year in which there is an economic recession or serious economic emergency in the United States as declared by joint resolution. As such, the Durbin amendment seeks to avoid the three-fifths vote majority prescribed by Senate Joint Resolution 1 in avoiding the requirement that receipts match outlays for any given fiscal year. This three-fifths majority was placed in the balanced budget amendment so that a simple majority of the Congress could not run deficits except in important situations--those recognized by a supermajority of the members. Efforts such as the Durbin amendment will render Senate Joint Resolution 1 useless. 
The Durbin amendment is wholly unnecessary. A brief analysis of historical fact will demonstrate that in circumstances of national disaster or economic downturn, the Congress has had little difficulty passing remedial legislation with supermajority support. 
The history of votes in this body demonstrates that in actual circumstances of economic assistance for unemployment or disaster relief, the Congress has had little difficulty achieving the supermajority vote that would be required under the balanced budget amendment. The Congressional Research Service helped me do some research on voting patterns in this area. I want to present for you the results of my research because I think it is illustrative. 
Let me summarize the results briefly: On the question of responding to economic recessions, the Congress has voted a number of times to extend the emergency unemployment compensation program. During the past 15 years, I count only one instance where the extension of this important program failed to garner a supermajority of votes in either Chamber, based on Congressional Research Service data. 
Similarly, in the area of disaster relief, over the past 7 years, I found that in virtually every circumstance, emergency spending bills placed before the House and Senate passed with supermajorities, on the order required by the balanced budget amendment, even though no such requirement was in place. 
Let me go into more detail on the unemployment compensation votes. H.R. 3167, which became Public Law 103-152, extended the emergency unemployment compensation program [EUCP] in November 1993. This conference report passed the House with a vote of 320 to 105 and passed the Senate, 79 to 20. The underlying bill achieved similar majorities, passing the House 320 to 105, and the Senate 79 to 20. In March 1993, another emergency unemployment compensation bill passed the Congress and became Public Law 103-6. The supermajority on H.R. 920 in the Senate was 66 to 33, and the vote in the House was 254 to 161. 
In 1992, the House passed the conference report on H.R. 5260, to extend the EUCP, by a vote of 396 to 23. The Senate acted similarly, passing the bill, which became Public Law 102-318, by a vote of 93 to 3. Also in 1992, the Senate passed H.R. 4095 to extend the EUCP by a vote of 94 to 2. The House passed the same bill, which became Public Law 102-244, by a vote of 404 to 8. 
In 1991, the House passed S. 1722, to provide emergency unemployment compensation, by a vote of 294 to 127. The Senate passed the same bill, which was vetoed by the President, by a vote of 69 to 30. Similarly, the House passed the conference report on this bill by a vote of 300 to 118 and the Senate passed the measure 65 to 35. Earlier in 1991, the House passed H.R. 3201, to provide emergency unemployment compensation, by a vote of 375 to 45. This measure became Public Law 102-107. The Senater passed it by voice vote. Finally, H.R. 1281 was passed in March 1991, providing funding for the Unemployment Compensation Administration [UCA]. This bill passed the House with a vote of 365 to 43. It passed the Senate by a vote of 92 to 8. The conference report on this bill, Public Law 102-27, passed with tallies of 340 to 48 and 93 to 3, respectively. In 1990, the House passed H.R. 4404, to provide funding for the UCA, by a vote of 362 to 59. The conference report passed 308 to 108. This bill became Public Law 101-302, after passing the Senate by voice vote. 
All the way back in 1983, the Senate passed H.R. 1718, to provide funds for the Unemployment Trust Fund. The bill, Public Law 98-8, passed the Senate 82 to 15. Finally, the Senate voted in February 1982 to pass House Joint Resolution 391, to provide funding for the Employment and Training Administration, by a vote of 95 to 0. 
What do these vote tallies indicate? They demonstrate that the Durbin amendment is completely unnecessary. During the past 15 years, my research reveals only one instance where a vote to provide unemployment compensation during a period of economic recession did not pass by a supermajority. One time in 15 years. That's remarkable. 
Similarly, in the area of disaster relief, Congress has overwhelmingly acted by supermajority votes in responding to crises. 
In fiscal year 1995, the House and Senate voted on H.R. 1944, which provided $7.2 billion disaster aid, mostly to help with recovery efforts in Los Angeles from the 1994 earthquake. The bill passed the Senate with a vote of 90 to 7--a clear supermajority. In the House, the bill passed with 276 votes--also a supermajority. 
The 1994 fiscal year Disaster Supplemental Appropriations bill, H.R. 3759, received similar treatment. That bill, to provide nearly $10 billion in new appropriation for the emergency expenses of the Los Angeles earthquake, humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping activities, as well as for Midwest flood assistance and highway reconstruction from the San Francisco earthquake, passed the House by a vote of 337 to 74--not really close, was it, to the 261 required for the three-fifths vote. The same measure passed the Senate by a vote of 85 to 10. 
The 1993 fiscal year disaster supplemental appropriations bill, H.R. 2667, providing nearly $3 billion for emergency relief from the widespread flooding in the Midwest and other natural disasters, passed the House by a vote of 400 to 27. The Senate adopted it by voice vote. 
In 1992, the disaster relief supplemental appropriations bill, H.R. 5132, passed the Senate by a supermajority vote of 61 to 36. The bill provided $2 billion in new budget authority for fiscal year 1992, including funds for disaster assistance and loans to respond to the Los Angeles riots and the Chicago tunnel collapse and subsequent flooding. In the House, the same bill passed by a vote of 244 to 162. 
Also in 1992, the defense and disaster supplemental appropriations bill, H.R. 5620, providing $10 billion in grants and loans to help victims of Hurricane Andrew, Typhoon Omar and Hurricane Iniki, passed the Senate by a vote of 84 to 10, it passed the House by a vote of 297 to 124. Finally, the 1992 supplemental appropriations bill passed the Senate with a vote of 75 to 17. This bill provided $8 billion for Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm as well as other moneys for communities recovering from other natural disasters. The same bill passed the House by a vote of 252 to 162. The conference report passed the House by a vote of 303 to 114. 
Last, the 1990 continuing appropriations bill, House Joint Resolution 423, provided disaster assistance generally. This bill passed the House by a vote of 321 to 99, and passed the Senate by a vote of 97 to 1. 
During the past 7 years, we have voted many times on emergency disaster funding programs. I count only two situations where a supermajority was not reached--this despite the fact that no supermajority was needed. 
The facts are hard to refute. The Durbin amendment clearly has little or no factual basis when compared to the voting record of the Congress. When the situation warrants, either because of economic recession or natural disaster, this body has had little difficulty achieving a supermajority of votes to pass needed spending programs. The balanced budget amendment has the flexibility necessary to respond to true emergencies. Creating loopholes like the Durbin amendment only serve to make deficit-spending as a matter of course easier. 
I reserve the remainder of my time and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-25-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 5 minutes to the distinguished Senator from Idaho. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-26-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield 1 minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-27-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. How much time is remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-28-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I will only take a few minutes. I want to thank the distinguished Senator from Illinois for the kind way he has conducted himself on this amendment. He has a wonderful personality. He did a very good job in our committee, and I think he has done a very good job here on the floor. 
In all honesty, his amendment would drive huge loopholes into the balanced budget amendment and make it, basically useless, 
because almost anybody could claim almost any type of event as an economic emergency. That would trigger his amendment and do away with the balanced budget amendment. 
There is one thing I would like to clarify. My good friend from Vermont talked about Fred Bergsten. Fred Bergsten suggested we shoot for a small annual surplus to be used during the course of each fiscal year. Mr. Bergsten is a Keynesian who believes fiscal policy will work better if the cycles are above the zero balance line rather than below. The fact the past surpluses accumulated in past years cannot be used without a three-fifths vote puts a lock on our savings, so such savings will not be used willy-nilly. But the best use of surpluses will be to pay down our debt. If Congress decides to use accumulated surpluses, it will be easier to get a three-fifths vote to use savings than to borrow, and that is the point I am making. 
Let me just conclude with the thought that the Durbin amendment is an unnecessary loophole that would, basically, make the balanced budget amendment, once a part of the Constitution, very ineffective. Congress can respond appropriately to real needs, but we need the increased protections of Senate Joint Resolution 1 to protect future generations. 
I worry about our children and our grandchildren and their children. I worry about whether people are going to have good jobs in the future. I worry about whether it is going to take a bushel barrel of dollars to buy a loaf of bread. I worry about whether we are going to monetize this debt, as the distinguished liberal Democrat Senator from Illinois, Senator Durbin's predecessor, Paul Simon, has always said will happen. If we monetize this debt, this country, as we know it, will be gone, because people will no longer believe in the credit of the United States. If we inflate our economy to pay off our huge national deficits and debt, we are ultimately going to wind up where we will have inflation that would eat every working person's lunch every day. 
If you really love the poor, if you really love senior citizens, if you really love our children and grandchildren, if you really love the future of this country, then we can't have loopholes like this blown into the balanced budget. We have to stand up and vote for a strong balanced budget amendment. It is difficult, I have to admit. It makes life a little more difficult for us as Members of Congress, but don't you think it is time to end these unbalanced budgets? Here are 28 of them, the last 28 years, and without this amendment, it will go on forever and our children's future will be gone. 
I yield back the remainder of my time. 
Mr. CRAIG addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-29-19970210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, yesterday the President of the United States submitted his budget. I have to say that the President has come a long way. He now says that he agrees that the budget needs to be balanced by the year 2002. This budget is a legitimate departure point from which to move in developing a final budget package. 
I was disappointed, however, to see that the President's 5-year cost of Government is almost identical to what he proposed a year ago. This does not look like the era of `big government is over.' It is not even shrinking according to this budget. Even more disturbing, the budget deficit over the next 5 years is nearly $200 billion higher than what was proposed just a year ago. And the deficit does not even decline until the year 1999. The bulk of the spending cuts contained in his budget occur after the President leaves office. 
So he has left all of the hard decisions to the years 2002 and 2001. Seventy-five percent of any fiscal responsibility has to occur in the 2 years after he leaves office. 
That is not what I call political courage. That is not what I call attending to the structural problems and the economic problems of this country. It is more of the same that we have had 
for the last 28 years. 
These huge stacks here on the table to my right represent 28 years of unbalanced budgets. These are the actual 28 budgets. Keep in mind that only involves the last 28 years, since 1969, the last time we balanced the Federal budget. For most of the last 60 years we have not balanced the Federal budget. So this is just a small smattering. If we put them all up here for the last 60 years, they would reach almost to the ceiling. 
Then we have this budget which came up here yesterday that has all the tough decisions made after he leaves office. The reason we elect Presidents is so they can make the tough decisions and help us to work in a bipartisan way so that nobody can scream at the other side. 
In this particular case this budget is filled with smoke and mirrors. What this means is that many of the tax cuts and spending increases contained in this budget are not even likely to occur or will not be offered until the last 2 years of the budget's projections, well after this President is gone. 
Just as important as reaching a balanced budget in 2002 is reforming the entitlement programs. This is what we are going to have to face. We are going to have to face the growing financing and deficit problems we see looming in the next century. This may sound far away, but it is only a few short years before we see the next century begin. We cannot be lulled into a false sense of security because we have not reached the crisis yet. 
I had hoped that the President would take a leadership position and tackle these difficult programs. Unfortunately, the budget contains only short-term fixes. We see no sign of the structural reforms that are absolutely needed. We see more signs of business as usual. 
By the way, while the President says that his budget balances the budget, the Congressional Budget Office--which he has touted himself as being accurate through the years and which certainly has not been what I consider a conservative Congressional Budget Office for all the time I have been here--the Congressional Budget Office says that his budget will not be balanced in the year 2002; and that the Administration is using economic assumptions that just are not realistic. 
I want to applaud the President for providing some tax relief in the budget. It is a solid first step in giving some tax relief to the American people. But it is only a baby step, and really a tentative one at that, because all of the tax increases--and there are plenty of them in this budget that he submitted yesterday--are permanent. The spending programs are permanent. But, the tax cuts are temporary and are likely never to occur because they go away if he does not meet his standards. 
So it is a big shell game again. 
I get so doggone tired of it. It is almost unbelievable. It is just more of the same of what we have had over the last 28 years, and it is really another reason why we simply have to pass this balanced budget amendment. 
The Presidents just do not seem to have the courage to stand up and do what really has to be done. I am really concerned about it. Well, I could go on and on on the President's budget, but I want to leave time for others. 
As we open the debate today on the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, I have to refer again to this stack of unbalanced budgets. These are the actual 28, the last 28 years' budget packages. 
I keep these budgets here, Mr. President, as a reminder of the generation of bipartisan budgetary failure. Here it is, 28 straight years of unbalanced budgets. There has not been one single balanced budget since 1969, not one in 28 years, and yet we have people on the other side come and say, `Oh, let's just have the will to do it. Let's just do it and the President will sign it.' 
Give me a break. That is not going to happen any more than it happened over the last 28 years. Paul Simon said, `Your hair will turn green before that happens, unless we have this balanced budget amendment.' 
I might say, Mr. President, there has only been one balanced budget in the last 36 years. If we had 36 up here, it would be much higher, the 36 individual budgets that have not been balanced. And there have been only eight balanced budgets in the past 66 years. Just think about it--58 years of unbalanced budgets. Only eight balanced budgets since 1930. 
This sad history of budgetary failure is not a Democratic problem or a Republican problem. It is an American problem. Those of us who are proposing a constitutional amendment to require balanced budgets do not do so as Republicans or Democrats; we do so as Americans, Americans concerned about America and the future of our children and our grandchildren. 
Let me just give you a few illustrations of how bad our debt problem has become. The national debt, as we all know, is now over $5.3 trillion--$5.3 trillion. That is a debt for each and every American of more than $20,000. CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, projects that in the year 2002, total Federal debt will exceed $6.8 trillion. That means roughly $24,000 of debt for every person, every man, woman and child in America, with annual interest costs projected to be over $3,100 per taxpayer. That is just what we have to pay on the interest against the Federal debt, $3,100 for each taxpayer a year by the year 2002. 
The national debt has increased more than $4 trillion since the Senate last passed a balanced budget amendment in 1982. We passed it in the Senate. Tip O'Neill and the liberals in the House defeated it at that time. 
The debt, which started this year at a baseline of $5.3 trillion, has increased over $550 million each and every day since then. Since we began debate this year on the balanced budget amendment in the Judiciary Committee, the debt has increased by more than $10 billion--just since we began debate this year. 
In 1996, gross interest exceeded $344 billion. That is more than the total Federal outlays in 1975--all outlays--and is nearly $50 billion more than the total revenues in 1975. 
In 1996, gross interest consumed nearly 25 percent of the Federal budget and more than one-half of all personal income taxes. 
In 1997, for the first time, we will pay more than $1 billion a day in gross interest on the debt. That is more than $41 million each hour and $685,000 each minute that we are losing in just interest costs. 
Net interest payments on the debt are currently the third largest budget category, amounting to 15 percent of the Federal budget, and it is the fastest growing item in the Federal budget. 
Our annual net interest payment on the debt is more than the combined budgets of the Departments of Commerce, Agriculture, Education, Energy, Justice, Interior, Housing and Urban Development, Labor, State, and Transportation. 
I think these basic facts should make it plain why the balanced budget amendment is an idea with appeal for Republicans and Democrats, for liberals and conservatives. 
There are liberal Democrats who see the money we waste on interest payments that could be used in better ways to help the disadvantaged. There are conservative Republicans who see the 
wreckage we are doing to the opportunities for our citizens and our people by strapping debt, interest, and future economic and tax burdens on them. 
We are all concerned that our resources are being misallocated because the Federal Government is spending willy-nilly, with thoughtless borrowing, rather than making deliberate choices. 
As we close this week of debate, I thank my colleagues who have participated in the debate who have expressed why we, Republicans and Democrats, are concerned about the debt the Government piles up just like the stack of these unbalanced budgets here, and why we, Republicans and Democrats, believe the only answer is the constitutional requirement that the Government act more deliberately in its spending decisions without always taking the easy recourse to borrow. 
This is a proposal that can unite us as Americans across party lines. Let me mention again that every Republican Senator is a cosponsor of this amendment. That is a great signal. But equally important is that seven courageous and bold Democrats have also signed on as original cosponsors. I wish to pay special tribute to those Democrats who support this and who have spoken in support of a constitutional amendment either in the Chamber or by signing on as cosponsors. Senators Bryan, Graham of Florida, Kohl, Baucus, Breaux, Moseley-Braun, and Robb have stood up for America and its future, and I applaud them for standing for principle and our children. 
Mr. President, I am also pleased to say that six other Democrats have voted for this in the recent past and have promised to support it in their most recent campaigns. I welcome their support for this most important insurance policy that this stack of budgetary failures will not grow too much higher and, more importantly, that our American future will be brighter. If all of these folks honor their commitments to their constituents, all 55 Republicans and all 13 Democrats who have said to their constituents they will vote for it, we will pass the balanced budget amendment this year and it will be a great day for all Americans. 
I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, we are pleased to welcome the Reverend Jack Michael Loo as guest Chaplain today. 
For the past 4 years, Reverend Loo has been senior pastor of the Church of the Master in Mission Viejo, CA. Prior to that, he served as executive pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Hollywood, where Dr. Lloyd Ogilvie, our Chaplain, was senior pastor prior to becoming Senate Chaplain. 
We want to express our personal gratitude and thanks to Reverend Loo for opening our session today with his excellent prayer. 
I was particularly pleased that he said in spite of our fears we should stand up and do what is right. 
We are grateful to have you here and are grateful for your prayer over this body. We appreciate the service which you give to your congregation and to the people throughout this country. 
Thank you so much. 
SCHEDULE 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I will announce the schedule. 
Today the Senate will be resuming consideration of Senate Joint Resolution 1, the constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. The majority leader announced that there will be no rollcall votes during today's session. Under the order the time between now and 1 o'clock will be equally divided in the usual form. I will remind all Senators that by consent we will resume debate on Senator Durbin's pending amendment at 3:30 on Monday. There will be 2 hours for debate at that time. Senators should be aware that there will be a rollcall vote on or in relation to the Durbin amendment beginning at 5:30 on Monday, February 10. On Monday, Senator Wellstone is expected to offer at least two amendments to Senate Joint Resolution 1. However, any votes ordered on those amendments will occur during Tuesday's session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I cannot tell you how much I personally appreciate the distinguished Senator from Florida, his courage and boldness in standing up for the balanced budget amendment, which he has always done. He and Senator Bryan are the two principal Democratic cosponsors of this amendment, and they have both worked very hard with us to try to bring this to fruition, not only on the floor but through the whole Congress. I want to personally thank him for his kind remarks, good remarks this day, and I look forward to the rest of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I want to compliment the distinguished Senator from Alabama. When Senator Heflin left the Senate, I have to say that I personally felt very badly about it. But I think Senator Heflin, who worked very hard for the balanced budget amendment, would really have appreciated this wonderful set of remarks that the distinguished Senator from Alabama gave today. I want to compliment him for it. 
Mr. President, as I understand it, there was a unanimous-consent request. I ask unanimous consent, if I can get this, that the order be Senator Grams, who I understand was supposed to go first, then Senator Byrd, then finally Senator Durbin, who has an amendment that he will bring forward. I ask unanimous consent for that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. With the right of the minority leader to come and speak whenever he desires. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the distinguished Senator. We will do that, except if the floor is vacant we will let whoever is here speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Whether in opposition or a proponent of the amendment. So we will just work this out and work together. I yield the floor. 
Mr. GRAMS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator for his remarks in this area. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I just want to take a second here and thank the distinguished Senator from Arkansas for his remarks that he has made. I do not know when I have been more impressed with a group of new Senators than I have now, unless it was the last time when we brought the balanced budget amendment up and lost by one vote, when all of the new Senators spoke together on the last one. I was just really impressed with that. And these Senators this year have been doing very well. I appreciate the Senator coming to the floor and making these cogent remarks. I thank my colleague. 
Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think we have a few more remarks. The distinguished Senator from Wyoming would like to speak, and the distinguished Senator from Maine wants to speak. I could then wrap up, and that should end it for the day. Do you have anybody over there desiring to speak?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield to the Senator from Wyoming [Mr. Enzi]. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Wyoming for the excellent remarks he has made here on the floor today. I have really been appreciative of the new Senators coming and talking about this because each and every one of them is a prime cosponsor of this amendment. What a change that is from two Congresses ago when we lost this by three votes, one Congress ago by one vote. 
I am very grateful to have had the good people we have listened to all day today. It makes a lot of difference to me. 
I am happy to yield the floor. 
Ms. COLLINS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I believe I will be the last to comment today, and I deliberately waited to the end to allow some other speakers to have a turn, but we do have an amendment which has been filed by the distinguished Senator from Illinois [Mr. Durbin], and I do believe I need to make a few remarks about that. But I do not intend to take too much time here. 
Senator Durbin has offered an amendment to the balanced budget amendment that would allow for suspension of the balanced budget rule in times of `economic recession or serious economic emergency.' I wonder what those words mean. Some words, when placed into the Constitution, can have almost any meaning. 
The very purpose of this provision of the distinguished Senator from Illinois is to make the balanced budget amendment easier to waive. Instead of trying to find ways to avoid fiscal responsibility, we ought to be working toward passing a strong balanced budget amendment that will help us to keep out of recessions in the first place. 
As an initial matter, any definition of `downturn' is malleable and could be abused by any future Congress bent on deficit spending. This amendment is no different. Trying to deal with a concept as loose as an economic downturn without even an attempt at defining terms can make this a loophole you could drive a truck through. 
It will not be long until a convoy starts rolling through. Furthermore, there is a loophole within the loophole, because the amendment does not limit the waiver in any way, such as to amounts related to the emergency. 
Under this provision, even during times of significant national growth, certain regions may experience an economic downturn which might give Congress a reason to trigger this waiver, whether we actually need to borrow to respond or not. Or there could be a general feeling of `economic anxiety,' or a perceived sense of anxiety felt in Washington about the economy. We can create anxieties about anything around here. For instance, I am very anxious about these 28 years of unbalanced budgets that are represented by this stack of budget submissions right here. We have had people worrying all day that these volumes might fall off and crush somebody. I just hope it is not us. But the debt burden they represent are crushing the American people. 
Year after year of unbalanced budgets and all we get from the other side is, `All we need is the will to do it, to balance the budget.' This President says we are going to do it by the year 2002, but he's going to do 75 percent of the balancing in the last 2 years according to the budget filed today. Give me a break. It is just more of the same. That is why we are here. 
I don't think it takes any brains to figure this one out. It is a no-brainer to know that these people who file these amendments do not want any balanced budget amendment, they do not want any constraints; they want to keep spending just like they always have. We have plenty of unbalanced budgets around here. We have done it for 28 years straight, and actually for the most of the last 60 years. We just put 28 budget submission volumes up here because we thought to stack up our budgetary failures any higher would be truly dangerous. In fact, I am not sure this little table will hold this throughout the whole debate. 
Let me say this. Even during times of significant national growth, under this proposal of the distinguished Senator from Illinois, we could have a waiver of the balanced budget amendment during times of economic boom, just when we should be balancing the budget or running a surplus. 
I believe the general three-fifths waiver already provided for in the balanced budget amendment strikes the right balance. It will allow Congress to waive the balanced budget rule during times of real need, but it will prevent those who are simply trying to find an easy way out of a budget crunch from strapping even more debt onto the backs of our children and future generations. The general three-fifths waiver provision will give Congress an incentive to plan ahead, rather than to borrow and spend in good times and bad, just like we have up to now, and then when things get tough, just go borrow some more. That is what we do. This is a recipe for instability. 
You will find the people who bring these amendments by and large are people who were never, never going to vote for a balanced budget amendment. But they will do anything to stop it, anything to stop us from having to live within budgetary constraints. 
Mr. President, this amendment is based in part on the largely rejected notion that increased borrowing will help us out of a recession. Fred Bergsten, a noted economist who had testified in support of the balanced budget amendment in past years, suggested the better way to go is to shoot for a yearly surplus, and let that take care of any truly automatic fluctuations and any truly pressing needs at that time, if there are any. 
Further, financial market experts have stated that increased borrowing and spending is not a cure for recessions. The better way is to get Federal spending and borrowing under control, which will make for a stronger, more stable economy, which will help us avoid economic problems in the first place. 
We should learn from other countries in the world that are trying to `spend their way out of recession.' Several European countries and Japan have been trying to do this lately. The result has been continued recession and even larger debt. On the other 
hand, a number of the world's up and coming countries are enjoying booming economies while keeping their national budgets in balance or even surplus. Perhaps we should be more concerned that we do not spend ourselves out of prosperity. I think we ought to think about that. Are we spending ourselves out of prosperity? 
One commentator has wryly stated that the theory of borrowing and spending out of a recession `is the game plan that propelled Argentina and Bolivia into economic superpower status in the 1970s.' That is pretty sarcastic, but I think a pretty good comment. 
The balanced budget amendment in no way prevents us from running a reasonable surplus which could be used to offset the effects of an economic downtown. This surplus would allow us to use fiscal policy within the balanced budget rule better than we can now without it. 
Even if we were to drop below balance using the intended rainy day surplus, the balanced budget amendment has anticipated this sort of need. A three-fifths vote in Congress will allow the balanced budget amendment rule to be suspended for a year. That way we have the flexibility to run reasonable deficits if we need to. The three-fifths requirement makes sure we do not waive the amendment unless it is a true need and not just an attempt for us to avoid making tough choices, which is something that goes on here all the time. 
So, we do not need any exceptions or loopholes. What we need is a strong balanced budget amendment as a mechanism in the Constitution to help us to get to a balanced budget. We should be less concerned about when we can spend more and more concerned about when we must spend less. 
Some say we are spending less. We have been hearing a lot in just the last 2 days about what a wonderful job we have done in reducing the deficit. Of course, we do not hear much about the fact that so long as we still have a deficit, our debt is increasing. In fact, we are not spending less. You would think a $107 billion deficit was a wonderful nirvana-like state. Only in Washington do we celebrate a reduction in the increase in the debt as an achievement, only here in this surrealistic place where we have these surrealistic budgets, all of which were unbalanced for 28 straight years, some of which were proposed to be balanced budgets but were not. None of these since 1969 have been balanced. 
Another fact we do not hear much about is even though the economy is doing fairly well, we are still in a deficit. Opponents of the balanced budget amendment keep talking about how the deficits are related to the economy. It seems to me, that given the current health of the economy, the budget should be balanced right now. But of course it is not. And of course the blame must be Mr. Reagan's or Mr. Bush's. 
Give me a break. The Reagan tax cuts actually produced 40 percent greater increase in revenues. What really cost us were two things, part of which was President Reagan's fault. One was the increase of strength to our military. But, on the other hand, I think most commentators now will give President Reagan credit for having brought down the iron curtain and having ended the cold war. But the other side of that equation was, during all of Reagan's 8 years, and all of Bush's 4 years, the House of Representatives where all money bills originate was controlled by liberals. In particular, during the Reagan years it was Tip O'Neill who led the liberal onslaught against the budget. Even though Reagan cut taxes and reduced marginal tax rates, and revenues actually went up--not as high as we would have liked, but they went up some 40 percent--even though that happened, the liberals in Congress were spending us into bankruptcy. That, coupled with the increase in the military, of course, did get us to the point where we are. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. It is an old expression that the time to save money is when you have it. If this economy is so good, as some of our colleagues are saying, Madam President, why do we not have a balanced budget. Why? 
Because it is easy to spend other people's money in good times and bad. That is why we need to correct Congress' spending bias with a constitutional amendment. 
This country has enjoyed some remarkable economic progress in the latter half of this century, and yet the United States has borrowed ever more money, despite the fact that most of those years were both peaceful and prosperous. So when people hear the opponents of the balanced budget amendment talk about needing to spend more in recessions, they should consider whether we have spent less in prosperous times. Of course, we have not. The debt has simply gone up higher and higher. It now stands at over $5.3 trillion. 
Let me just take a moment to illustrate just how big that is. This chart shows, if you were to lay the debt of $5.3 trillion in $1 bills end to end on a road, they would stretch 514,283,460 miles. Were you to drive to the end of that road traveling an average of 500 miles per day at 65 miles per hour, it would take you 2,818 years. You would have to drive along the road paved with dollar bills for 500 miles a day at 65 miles an hour for 2,818 years. 
That gives us a little understanding of how big the debt is. Two thousand eight hundred and eighteen years is somewhat difficult to comprehend, so let me put it in more descriptive terms. 
Had the legendary founder of Rome, Romulus, gotten on his horse in 753 B.C. and started down that road of dollar bills at a rate of 500 miles per day, he would still be some six decades away from reaching the end of that road. In the course of his travels, he would have circled the globe more than 20,000 times. 
That is our debt. It is no longer cyclical. It has become a permanent structure in Washington. It even has its own Government office, the Bureau of Public Debt. I am not kidding; that office really does exist. Our deficits have not been countercyclical, they have been counterproductive. 
What we need is to change the way Congress thinks. Only a requirement with the strength and staying power of a constitutional amendment can make that change. Only the balanced budget amendment can get our fiscal house in order and keep it there. 
Before we are done with this debate, we will likely see amendments to exempt certain programs, exempt certain groups, and waive the balanced budget amendment whenever the times get tough. But this is precisely the type of thinking that has brought us 30 straight years of deficits and a $5.3 trillion national debt. 
The way to avoid the hardships of recession is to pass a strong balanced budget amendment and get our runaway deficit spending under control. That will take some guts. Because it is tough, you will see all of these amendments to try and protect one constituency after another. The fact is, we have to keep all the budget together and approach it in an intelligent and thoughtful way. And those programs, like Social Security, that are so justifiable are better than capable of competing, and they will compete well. Some of the programs that are not quite as good--all of them have some merit--but some that are not quite as good may have to have some changes. All of our budget has to have some changes if we are ever going to get the budget and economy of this country under control and save the future for our children and grandchildren. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, there will never be a time when we have a true economic need and a true economic emergency that we will not get a three-fifths vote. As a general matter, whenever we needed it for unemployment compensation, whenever we needed it for emergencies, there has always been more than three-fifths. That requirement of consensus to borrow, which allows for flexibility but not complete laxity, is the value of this amendment and the strength of this amendment. 
So we can't just do what our friend from Illinois would like to do, and that is to just have a nebulous set of terms that would allow this Congress to do whatever it wants to about spending in the future. What we are trying to do is establish some restraints and get this place under control. 
This constitutional amendment's approach is a bipartisan approach. It is not a Republican approach; it is not a Democrat approach. It has taken a lot of us working together year after year--in my case, over 20 years now--to get this bipartisan amendment, the only one having a chance of going through, and everybody knows that. So hoping for a version more to one's liking is no excuse not to vote for this. Everybody knows this is the amendment. We are hopeful this amendment will pass intact and be sent to the House, and if it receives the required votes in the House, it will be a great day for America. 
I yield the floor. 
Ms. MOSELEYBRAUN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I thank my distinguished colleague from Illinois. She may call herself a liberal, and that is fine with me. But she has stood up on this amendment as one of our principal cosponsors on the Democratic side of the floor, and that is one of the reasons this amendment is as good as it is and why it is a bipartisan amendment. I'm personally grateful to her for her courage in standing up for this. I think the generations will, as we pass this amendment, thank the distinguished Senator from Illinois for standing up and being willing to articulate why this is so important. So, again, I want to personally express my fondness for her and my feelings of what a great job she does on this issue and how I personally appreciate it. I have enjoyed her remarks. They have been right on point. I think she covered the issues very well and, frankly, I hope everybody in this country is listening to it. 
As we close, I wanted to offer just a few final remarks on today's debate. 
First, I would once again like to thank all those who have participated so far in the debate. I especially wish to congratulate those new Members who have made their first addresses on this important issue. I appreciate their participation. 
Second, I would like to add just a few additional thoughts on the notion of the so-called automatic stabilizers and the moderation of the business cycle. 
Madam President, I believe the importance of automatic stabilizers has been overstated. 
In her testimony before the Senate Budget Committee just last month, CBO Director June O'Neill responded to a question about the effectiveness of automatic stabilizers by citing better monetary policy and the Nation's move away from an agricultural based economy, with the inherent ups and downs that go along with agriculture, as factors at least as important as automatic stabilizers in minimizing recessions. Additionally, the move to a service economy and better inventory management practices has reduced the fluctuations associated with inventory overstocks and the factory economy. 
The global economy and greater business information and efficiency have also contributed to a more stable economy. 
Finally, there has been much discussion of who can take credit for the recent reductions in the deficit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, the fight to adopt a balanced budget amendment is a bipartisan one. 
I congratulate my Democrat colleagues who have argued for the balanced budget amendment. Their support shows that this constitutional amendment is a nonpartisan solution to a nonpartisan problem. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that at 3:30 p.m. on Monday, February 10, the Senate resume consideration of Senator Durbin's amendment regarding economic hardship. I further ask that there be 2 hours for debate, equally divided in the usual form, and at the hour of 5:30 p.m. on Monday the Senate proceed to vote on or in relation to the Durbin amendment, and no amendments be in order to the Durbin amendment prior to the 5:30 p.m. vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following nominations on the executive calendar: 
Calendar Nos. 6 through 16, and all nominations placed on the Secretary's desk in the foreign service. 
I further ask unanimous consent that the nominations be confirmed, motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the nominations appear at this point in the Record, and the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until the hour of 11 a.m. on Friday, February 7. I ask consent that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the routine requests through the morning hour be granted. I further ask unanimous consent that the Senate then immediately resume consideration of Senate Joint Resolution 1, the constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Finally, I ask unanimous consent that the time between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. be equally divided between the chairman and ranking member, or their designees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, for the information of all Senators, on Friday, the Senate will resume consideration of Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget amendment. Under a previous order, the pending amendment offered by Senator Durbin will be voted on at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, February 10 and, therefore, there will be no rollcall votes during tomorrow's session. On Monday, Senator Wellstone will offer two additional amendments, and it is my hope that the Senate will be able to vote on these amendments on Tuesday, possibly in the morning. I will remind my colleagues that next week is the final week of session prior to the President's Day recess. I anticipate a busy week as we continue to make progress on the balanced budget amendment, as well as consider additional nominations as they become available. I thank all Members in advance for their continued cooperation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
There being no objection, the Senate, at 6:43 p.m., adjourned until Friday, February 7, 1997, at 11 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. 
We are returning to the balanced budget constitutional amendment debate. This is a singularly important debate in our Nation's history. And while I am talking, I am going to constantly refer to just 28 of the unbalanced budgets since 1969--28 of them. We had to find a table strong enough to hold them, and we could not put them on top of each other. As you can see, they are almost as high as I am, stacked in twos and threes. If we put them on top of each other, they would reach almost to the ceiling. These are our unbalanced budgets over the last 28 years, every last one. And yet every time we get into this debate, our friends on the other side of this issue come in and say, `Oh, let's just have the will to do this. We can do it if we want to, if we just have the will.' And we heard the President the other evening talking about all you have to do is pass it and I will sign it. 
Give me a break. That is what was said in every one of these instances. And a number of them were listed as balanced budgets during this time. It turned out to be horrendous budgetary deficits rather than balanced budgets. You can just look at this stack--and this is just 28 years. This does not count the other unbalanced budgets for most of the last 60 years. This is just 28 years, these stacks right here. 
A lot of good intentions, a lot of people working hard to try to do what is right but never accomplishing it because they did not have the fiscal discipline necessary to get it accomplished. You cannot look at this and listen to these arguments of `Why don't we just do what we should do.' 
After 28 years--and we are just using the last 28 years like I am saying--after 28 years we have to wake up and say we do need a fiscal mechanism to help Congress to do its job because it has not done its job in the last 37 years and most of the last 60 years. 
If we put them all up here, we would not have room. Frankly, we are worried with this stack that we might be violating OSHA rules. If these happen to fall over, somebody's leg could get broken. 
We are returning to this debate, and it is an important debate. It is about whether we have reached the turning point in our Nation's history in our fiscal affairs which will change the way we have been doing business. We are hoping that if we pass this amendment, we will profoundly effect a legacy we leave to all future Americans. 
We have, as I have said, had piled on this table the failed budgetary history of the last 28 years. These are the unbroken string of unbalanced budgets that we have had since 1969. 
As Senator Abraham observed last night, this is about as close to balancing the budget as we have come, balancing these budget documents on this table so they will not fall over. That is about as close as we get to balancing budgets. We are not sure we have it balanced well even that way, so you can imagine how difficult it must be to try to balance them the real way. 
We received today yet another budget submission. In this one, President Clinton has promised to point us to balancing our budget by the year 2002. In the coming days and weeks, the Congress will be reviewing this budget submission to determine whether it will be just another failed attempt that we toss on top of this huge pile. Of course, since this budget for fiscal year 1998 will not itself balance, it can be placed on this stack of unbalanced budgets. But we have yet to see if Congress will be able to work with this budget submission to get us on the path to balance by 2002. 
We should all understand that the backdrop to all this is that the Congressional Budget Office has recently painted a less rosy picture of the deficit in the next few years under current policies. Let me just take this chart. 
As this chart shows, CBO predicts that the deficit will begin to rise this year and continue rising throughout the foreseeable future. The CBO predicts that the deficit will rise to $124 billion in fiscal year 1997 and continue to rise to $188 billion by fiscal year 2002, the year we hope we will have balanced the budget. The deficits just keep rising until 2007, as you can see. Our annual deficit is projected to be, at that time, $278 billion a year. 
Added up, these deficits will add a total of more than 2 trillion additional dollars to the debt from now until the year 2007. That is if we do what the President is going to offer today. 
The point is that we cannot yet congratulate ourselves for a job well done. There is work ahead for all of us to do, and there is no assurance of success. Based on the sad history illustrated by these 28 years of budgetary submissions, success has to be considered, by any reasonable person, to be in serious doubt. That is why we need a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. It has been called an insurance policy that we will get the budget actually balanced in the year 2002 and, more important, that we keep it balanced afterward, instead of doing what it appears will be done up through the year 2007, a continual rising deficit each year, well over hundreds of billions of dollars. 
I think the combination of these illustrations of the past and the projections for the future based on our current policy suggest that the past is prologue and should show us that we need a balanced budget amendment. 
We have been through debates on this measure before. I would like to outline briefly for those watching these debates what they are likely to hear from the opponents of this amendment based on past debates and the positions outlined to this point in this debate. 
First, let me point out this is not a partisan disagreement or debate, and it should not be. That is only fitting and proper for a constitutional debate. You have to have people on both sides supporting a constitutional amendment or there is no way it even has a chance of passing. This is a bipartisan amendment. 
Some opponents of a balanced budget amendment will attempt to paint this debate as a battle of parties, of a choice between a Republican amendment or a Democrat amendment or Democrat opposition to the amendment. While I hasten to point out that all 55 Republican Senators, every one of us, are supportive of this balanced budget amendment, there are numerous Democrats who support it as well and I commend them. Among the original cosponsors are seven Democrats. An additional four Democrat Senators voted for this version of the balanced budget amendment the last time it was considered in Congress, two of whom voted for it in the House and have now joined us in the Senate, and two other new Democrat Senators expressed support for the balanced budget amendment in their Senate campaigns. That number alone will give us sufficient 
support to send this amendment to the States. Other Democrat Members have supported this text in the past, and I hope they will return. I would certainly be happy to welcome them back. Senate Joint Resolution 1 is a bipartisan undertaking and a bipartisan, bicameral consensus amendment. 
The first division of opponents of the balanced budget amendment is between those who say that they are for a balanced budget amendment, just not this one, and those who are against all balanced budget amendments. In effect, the position is the same. Senate Joint Resolution 1 is the product of years of refinement and debate. It is the only balanced budget amendment which has any chance of being adopted by the Congress as a whole. 
In past debates, substitute amendments have been offered, not one of which has garnered the support of even a mere majority of the Members of this body, let alone approached the 67 Senate votes required for Senate approval. Any of us might change a word or two if we were writing our own Constitution. We might want the courts to do this or the President to do that, or we might want tax limitation or any number of other changes. But Senate Joint Resolution 1 is the only version that has a chance of passing. So, when someone in this debate says they have a better idea, you will know, in effect, that they are working against passing a balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
Second, there will be those who propose changes to the amendment to exempt certain items from the budget-balancing rule. While they will profess that, of course, they are for balancing the budget--we are all for balancing the budget now; I don't know of anybody on this floor who does not say that. They believe that certain items are just too important to be left to congressional prioritizing. Because they are so important, they propose pretending that, for purposes of the Constitution, these items do not exist in the budget of the Federal Government. Of course, these items are items that the Federal Government pays for, but never mind, they are not part of the budget for purposes of balancing the budget. 
When it comes to this, I have to say the No. 1 scheme on the part of these people is to exempt Social Security from the balanced budget amendment. We are here to save Social Security. That is what the balanced budget amendment is all about. The best way to do that is to pass this constitutional amendment. If you take Social Security out from the purview of the balanced budget amendment, the highest item in the Federal budget, that is a risky gimmick that would endanger Social Security's future. So we are very concerned about what is happening here. 
Third, we will also hear those who believe that willpower, or another statute, will be the discipline we need. Let me say, again, it has been 28 years, since 1969, since we have balanced the budget. That was the only time we did it since 1960--37 years ago. So, in 37 years we have only balanced the budget once and we have only 28 of those years up here. We could not afford to take the risk of violating OSHA rules by piling this any higher. So, willpower has not worked. We have had no fewer than five major statutory attempts to rein in our borrowing habits since 1978 alone. No statute has worked. 
Finally, there are those who would say that a constitutional amendment is unnecessary because Congress and the President both want to balance the budget by 2002, we are moving toward that goal. While it is true that everyone has adopted the goal of balancing the budget by 2002, we have not finished that job yet. June O'Neill, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office, testified last week before the Budget Committee that the good news is pretty much over and the hard work is ahead. As I pointed out, CBO projects that the annual deficit will begin rising again this year from $107 billion this year, which they act like is nothing, to $124 billion next year, to $188 billion in the year 2002, the year we all agree we will have a balanced budget, or we will have to balance the budget. 
The lesson, then, is we cannot declare victory and go home because things have recently improved to some extent. The hard work is ahead, and the political pressures that have given us our decades-long debt habit will continue to push us off balance, toward mortgaging the future. Only the permanent counterweight of the Constitution can get us to balance in the short term and keep us in balance for the long term. 
Let me conclude simply by saying that I am pushing for this change in our basic charter because I care about the quality of life for all Americans, for those now living, and for those future generations that cannot make their wishes known at this time. I believe that if our colleagues will think about how Washington has worked over the last few decades--just look at it, three decades almost--and the price real Americans pay now, and especially will pay in the future, that they will agree that a vote for the balanced budget amendment is a vote for a better future for all Americans. 
We have debated this amendment in Congress for many years. I believe it is time to let the American people debate it in their State legislatures, but that cannot happen unless we pass it through both Houses of Congress. I believe it is time they will adopt a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution if we give the people a chance. Let the people speak, and let them speak without further delay. 
Let me just say one last thing about Social Security, because I think it is one of the phoniest issues I have seen in years. Without a credible sustained balanced budget, we will never have the money to pay our future benefits. It is just that simple. A balanced budget means economic prosperity, producing the revenues necessary to fund the program. With a balanced budget, the big spenders in Washington won't be able to target Social Security to pay for other programs, just as the administration did in 1993. 
By the way, in the President's own words, he said this: `Neither the Republicans nor I could produce a balanced budget tomorrow that could pass if Social Security funds cannot be counted.' 
That was said on January 28, 1997, just a week ago. Neither of us can do it without that. 
I think it is important to make it clear that opponents of the balanced budget will throw out any diversion to confuse the issue. They will even use scare tactics. The truth is, excluding Social Security does nothing to secure benefits into the future, and the President's own budget that is submitted today counts those surpluses to set it in balance. 
We have set aside most of our time this afternoon for our newest Members of the Senate, our freshman class, to come down and express their views on this.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Of course not. We will go back and forth as we did yesterday; either way, as far as I am concerned. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. For some of these freshmen Senators, it will be their first speech as U.S. Senators. I can't believe that there is anything more fitting than the balanced budget amendment in their very first speech. This is a historic issue, and I think these freshmen Senators will help us understand how truly historic it is. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I honor my colleague. He is a very fine Senator and does a very good job, but give me a break: All it takes is for us to do the job and the President's signature. We have had 28 years of that philosophy. Here it is. Twenty-eight years on balanced budgets and really, in the last 60 years, there have been really very few balanced budgets. This would be three times this size if we put it up for the last 60 years. This ought to give anybody enough pause to say, `Hey, it's time to get this over with. It's time to let people move on from here.' 
Our efforts to pass the balanced budget amendment predate even my own election to the Senate some 20 years ago. But these new freshmen Senators are absolutely critical and an indispensable factor, it seems to me, in this debate. They came to the Senate last month with new insights and unbounded enthusiasm and energy and determined that some integrity and sanity be restored to the Federal budget process. Their commitment to this process, to our children and our grandchildren is an inspiration to those of us who have dedicated most of our political life to this message. I hope their message is heard around the country. 
All freshmen Senators are original cosponsors and they can work in a bipartisan manner with their Democratic counterparts to ensure passage of the amendment this month. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Colorado for making such an impassioned statement on how important this balanced budget amendment is. We are so glad to have you in the Senate. You are making a difference and we appreciate and thank you so much for your good comments. You are speaking for the vast majority of people in this country, 68 percent of whom, according to the latest polls, want this amendment passed. I personally thank you and congratulate you for your speech. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I compliment our distinguished colleague from Oregon. He became the president of the Oregon Senate shortly after he was elected to the Oregon Senate. I think we are very privileged to have him in our body today. He has made his maiden speech, and I can't imagine any subject that would be more meaningful than this one. I am pleased he took the time to make that speech on the balanced budget amendment. It also shows there is a new wave coming through this body. People are now getting serious, after 28 years of unbalanced budgets. This stack represents the 28 unbalanced budgets over the last 28 years. These folks are coming in here saying it is time to change it. You can hardly see me behind this stack. But this has to be changed, and the only way we are going to change it is with a balanced budget amendment. When people come on the floor and just say, `Let's have the will to do it,' the 
only will they need to show is to pass the balanced budget amendment so we will do it. For 28 years--really, for most of the last 60 years, we haven't had the will to do it. I compliment my colleague and thank him for his cogent, good remarks here today. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. GRAMM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, February 5, 1997, to receive testimony on the nomination of Federico F. PenAE6a to be Secretary of Energy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 5, 1997, to conduct a hearing on the following nominee: Janet Louise Yellen, of California, to be Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized to meet on February 5, 1997, at 10 a.m. on pending committee business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 5, 1997, for purposes of conducting a full committee hearing which is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m. The purpose of this hearing is to consider S. 104, the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1997. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Finance be permitted to meet Wednesday, February 5, 1997, beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room SH-215, to conduct a markup to extend the airport and airway trust fund excise taxes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Rules and Administration be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate to receive testimony from committee chairman and ranking members on their committee funding resolutions for 1997 and 1998 on Tuesday, February 4, Wednesday, February 5, and Thursday, February 6, all at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Select Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 5, 1997, at 10 a.m. to hold an open hearing on intelligence matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the courts of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, be authorized to meet during a session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 5, 1997, at 2 p.m., in Senate Dirksen room 226, on `conserving judicial resources: considering the appropriate allocation of judgeships in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Clear Air, Wetlands, Private Property and Nuclear Safety, be granted permission to conduct a hearing Wednesday, February 5, at 9:30 a.m., hearing room SD-406, on ozone and particulate matter standards proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that Manus Cooney, Sharon Prost, Shawn Bentley, Paul Larkin, Larry Block, Steve Tepp, Troy Dow, and Paul Joklik be permitted privileges of the floor for the duration of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Madam President, today we begin one of the most important debates that has ever taken place in the U.S. Senate or in the Congress of the United States. The subject matter goes to the very heart of our Founding Fathers' hope for our constitutional system--a system that would protect individual freedom through the maxim of limited Government. 
In the latter half of this century, however, the intentions of the Framers of the Constitution have been betrayed by the Congress' inability to control its own spending habits. The size of this Federal leviathan has grown to such an extent that the very liberties of the American people are threatened. 
I just stood at a press conference with our Democratic cosponsors of this amendment, and there was a huge table filled with unbalanced budgets since 1969. 
History was made in the 104th Congress when 300 of our courageous colleagues in the House of Representatives, both Democrats and Republicans, approved a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. Unfortunately, the same measure was defeated in this Chamber by one solitary single vote. 
This year we begin a new Congress following an intensive fall campaign in which people in every State across this Nation made unmistakably clear their insistence that we put our fiscal house in order. The eyes of the people, now more than two-thirds of whom favor a balanced budget amendment, now turn to us to follow through on our promises. 
I am pleased to be joined by 61 of my colleagues, including every Republican Senator in the U.S. Senate and 7 bold Democrats who have done exactly that in sponsoring Senate Joint Resolution 1, the balanced budget constitutional amendment. Madam President, as we begin the debate on Senate Joint Resolution 1 proposing an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to require balanced annual Federal budgets, I want to summarize why I feel this amendment should be added to the basic great law of this great Nation. 
Let me say that as a lifelong student of the Constitution and having served on the Judiciary Committee in this body during my tenure here of 20 years, I do not lightly suggest amending our founding document. Yet, all other avenues having failed us, I believe it appropriate to take recourse to our basic charter to rein in an abused power of the purse--as has been done in similar situations in our history since the Magna Carta--in order that we might save future generations from the heavy burden of irresponsible Government borrowing. 
Madam President, let me just summarize the reasons I believe the proposed balanced budget amendment should be presented to the States for ratification. We have to have a two-thirds vote in both of the bodies and submit this amendment to the States, and we have to get three-quarters of them to ratify the amendment before it can be entered into the Constitution. It is a tough process. It ought to be a tough process. 
These are some of the reasons why I believe this amendment should be presented to the States for their ratification: 
No. 1, integrity and accountability. It will bring immediate credibility to our current budget process and negotiations, and it will restore a measure of integrity and accountability to our Government. 
No. 2, our children's future. Passing the balanced budget constitutional amendment is a vote for our children's economic freedom. 
No. 3, family financial security. Passing the balanced budget amendment will improve the economic health and stability of all American families. 
No. 4, economic strength. The stabilizing effect the balanced budget amendment will have on the economy is clear, and it will enable us to rein in the level of our country's foreign-held debt. 
No. 5, retirement security. If we pass this balanced budget constitutional amendment it will literally save Social Security. It will stabilize the economy which will benefit all current and future retirees. Without it, all of these programs will be placed in jeopardy. 
Now let me describe these reasons in more detail. On the issue of integrity and accountability, our national debt is rocketing out of control and the American people are paying a very heavy price for it. As you can see by this chart, the debt was relatively stable for many decades, up to about 1970, a little bit before 1970. In recent years the debt has increased at alarming rates under the watch of both political parties. The fact is, our deficits have been structural and they will not be eliminated in the long run without the discipline of a balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
They really shot up in the 1980's, right on through the 1990's, and still that arrow is going almost straight up, even today, even with the efforts and actions that have been taken. 
Since 1978, there have been no fewer than five major statutory schemes or regimes enacted which promised to deliver balanced budgets, and these include Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. But there has not been a single balanced budget since 1969, which was the only balanced budget since 1960. 
While I support the steps we have taken to pass the balanced budget plan, I question whether, without the weight of a constitutional requirement to balance the budget, we will achieve balance by the year 2002. Without a balanced budget amendment, every year Congress has to act, and we have seen the lack of will to do what's right around here. For this reason, I feel passage of the balanced budget amendment is critical. 
Let's just acknowledge what every American citizen knows. In recent decades, Washington has been biased to spending, without feeling any constraints by the amount of money it actually has on hand. Washington has lost the habit of prioritized spending options. Any ideas with political appeal get enacted regardless of cost. We borrow the money if we run short. That is what we have been doing for most of the last 60 years. Those listening could try this thinking on their own budgets at home. Buy any item that looks appealing next time you are at the mall. Just put it on the card. What happens to your budget? Something like this chart probably, but hopefully not quite so high. 
Washington, however, is not as constrained as the average American. Washington spends in this way, and when the bill comes, it signs the debt over to the American people. In addition to paying their own bills, the American people have to pay Washington's bills in the form of higher taxes, of course, and accumulated debt. They also pay them in the form of higher interest rates on their homes, their cars, or student loans. They pay in the form of lower job growth, lower wages, and they even pay in the form of decreased services from the Government because more of the budget is being spent on interest rather than on education, health care, job training, child care, the environment, et cetera. 
The point is that Americans are getting fed up with Washington because they feel the pinch put on them by Washington's spendthrift ways. They know they have to make hard choices about how they will spend their own money, but they feel that Washington does not feel constrained to make hard choices about spending priorities. It's not even Washington's own money that it's spending so freely; it is the American people's money. No wonder the American people are tired of it. 
Besides being dismayed by Washington's free spending habits, the American people also believe that Washington is not accountable for its decisionmaking. The balanced budget amendment responds to both of these concerns. On this chart is the actual text of the balanced budget amendment before the Senate at this time. This balanced budget amendment will require Washington to make tough choices about spending priorities within the constraint of the amount of money it has, or it requires Members of Congress to go on record for its borrowing and taxing decisions. There will be no more voice votes when it comes to raising taxes. There will be no more voice votes when it comes to raising the deficit. You are going to have to stand up and vote. This amendment will see to that. It also requires Congress to achieve some measure of increased consensus about spending priorities if it is going to finance that spending by borrowing. 
The concept is simple: Don't borrow, unless a significant number of Members are willing to go on record as saying this spending is such a priority that we must borrow to do it. That would go a long way toward letting Americans know that their Government is deliberating about its spending habits, making choices among competing options, and only spending beyond its means when it really needs to in order to achieve a goal so important that a supermajority of Members could agree. The balanced budget 
amendment will go a long way toward restoring the people's faith in the integrity of our budget process and in the accountability of Washington for its decisions. 
A vote for the balanced budget amendment is a vote for integrity and accountability in Washington. 
Now, our children's future. Our national debt now tops $5.3 trillion. That averages out to about $20,000 in debt for every man, woman, and child in America. That is what our fiscal insanity has brought us to. A child born in America today comes into this world $20,000 in debt--and that is going up. Do we have the right to spend our children's future for our own comfort today? 
Over time, the disproportionate burdens placed or imposed on today's children and their children by a continuing pattern of deficits could include some combination of the following: Increased taxes, reduced public welfare benefits, reduced pensions and Social Security benefits, reduced benefits or expenditures on infrastructure and other public investments, diminished capital formation, diminished job creation, diminished productivity enhancement and less real wage growth in the private economy, higher interest rates, higher inflation, increased indebtedness to and economic dependence on foreign creditors, and increased risk of default on the Federal debt. 
Madam President, I have said this in the past. This is `fiscal child abuse' and it must end. It is our children's future versus Washington's spending addiction. I hope the Senate of the United States will come down overwhelmingly on the side of our children's future by passing this amendment. 
A vote for the balanced budget amendment is a vote for our children's economic security. 
Now, what about family financial security? It is not just our children that we hurt with these outrageous deficits. We are suffocating our own families. The impact of higher interest rates, higher taxes, lower wage and job growth, and higher mortgages are felt at kitchen tables all across America. The Concord Coalition has estimated that the interest payments on our mountainous debt amount to $5,360 a year for a family of four. Just to pay the interest against our national debt, it's $5,360 a year. 
Chairman Kasich of the House Budget Committee has pointed out that three of the causes of the `middle class squeeze'--high taxes, counterproductive Government spending policies, and anemic wage growth--are at least partly caused by continued borrowing by the Federal Government. He points out that the baby boom generation pays taxes that are at least 50 percent higher than those paid by their grandparents. Real per hour wages inched up just one-third of 1 percent annually over the past 4 years, which is one-seventh the rate of growth in the period between 1960 and 1974, and productivity over the past 4 years grew at only one-fifth the rate of that same period. Economist Lester Thurow noted that the one-earner middle-class family is extinct and explains that almost one-third of all men between the ages of 25 and 34 make less each year than is required to keep the average family of four above the poverty level. These combined pressures tear at the very fabric of our Nation and our families. 
By contrast, implementing the balanced budget amendment will lower interest rates, making it easier for our families to pay their mortgages, their car loans, and their student loans. Economist at DRI-McGraw-Hill estimate that a balanced budget rule would result in a 2-percent drop in interest rates. Now, DRI-McGraw-Hill is one of the best econometric groups in the country. A balanced budget rule would mean annual savings of $1,230 on a middle-class family's home mortgage, $216 each year for an average student loan, and $180 each year on the average car loan. 
The good effects of our overall economic health will help family budgets in many other possible forms, such as a higher paycheck, more job opportunity or security, lower taxes in the future, and a greater ability to save and invest for the future. The Joint Economic Committee has estimated that the average American family would have an additional $1,500 a year if we implemented a balanced budget rule. A balanced budget amendment will make it easier for American families to afford a house, a car, or to send a child to college. This offers a real way to relieve the pressure on American families who are struggling to stay together and get ahead. A vote for the balanced budget amendment is a vote for the economic health and stability of American families. 
Now, economic stability. Economists from all over this country agree that the balanced budget amendment should pass. They agree that `we have lost the moral sense of fiscal responsibility that served to make formal constitutional restraints unnecessary.' 
Hundreds of economists support the balanced budget amendment as being good for the national economy by increasing both investor and business confidence, both foreign and domestic. 
Some economists are against us on the balanced budget amendment. As a general rule, they are academics who depend upon the Government in many ways for their moneys and in many respects love the spending practices of the Federal Government. Not all--some sincerely worry about the amendment. But there are also many, many who worry that if we do not pass the amendment we are really going to be in trouble, and economic stability will be threatened. 
If the Government would stop borrowing so much money, interest rates would come down and money would be available for businesses to invest in creating jobs and paying higher wages. The Director of the Congressional Budget Office, June E. O'Neill, has testified recently that `balancing budget will induce favorable changes in the economy,' and among those favorable changes she specifically pointed to `interest rates, economic growth, and the share of GDP represented by corporate profits.' All of this can put real money in the pockets of real people, including small business owners and employees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We would be happy to do it, if the Senator wants to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Sure. That would be fine with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I do not think it would be fine with that side, but it would be fine with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will clear the way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let us let everybody say what they want to say about this on both sides, and at a reasonable time we would like to---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will be happy to do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-10-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, Senator Thurmond, who has worked on the balanced budget amendment for all this time that he has been in this body, the imminent President pro tempore of this body, who deserves so much credit for even getting it up for us to vote on it, has asked that one of our new Senators from Nebraska be given the opportunity to take his place at this point. He wanted to defer to the distinguished Senator from Nebraska who will be giving his maiden speech on the balanced budget amendment in the Senate. I am proud of him for doing so. It is an honor to all of us that Senator Thurmond would do this. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the distinguished Senator from Nebraska proceed with his remarks, and then I ask unanimous consent that the distinguished Senator from Nevada be allowed to proceed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-11-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Let me amend my unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-12-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Senator Bryan would like to go after Senator Hagel, if there is not another opponent who wishes to speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-13-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I wanted to make it clear. We will finish here about 5:30 today, I understand, and certainly we want to have both of these Senators give their speech. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-14-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We are only doing it to accommodate our friends on the other side who have a dinner. I would like to get the remarks in, and I particularly want to listen to these two Senators. 
I yield to the Senator from Nebraska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-15-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as you can see, this is a very important amendment. This is a very important debate. This particular debate is going to determine whether this country is going to go ahead with a fiscally responsible Government or whether it isn't. And, frankly, I think it is time that we do vote on this and that we do what is right for our country. 
We are waiting for a couple of Senators who would like to come and speak to this. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-16-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-17-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I compliment the distinguished Senator from Nebraska for his maiden speech on the floor of the Senate on the balanced budget amendment. He did a very good job. He made a lot of very important points. I hope everybody in this country will pay attention to him. 
This is a fellow who has sacrificed for his country. He was a war hero. He has been much decorated. He decided he wanted to run for the U.S. Senate so he could make a difference, and he made a real difference here today. I personally commend him for it and thank him for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-18-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-19-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I think we see some hope for the Kennedy family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-20-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I will only take a moment, because the distinguished Senator from Minnesota wishes to make a statement on the other side of the issue. 
I thank my colleague from Nevada for an excellent set of remarks. He is a tremendous leader on this issue, the principal cosponsor of this amendment on the Democratic side of the aisle. I thank him for all the work he has done and the excellent remarks that he has made. It means an awful lot to all of us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-21-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to take a few seconds to point out this little stack. This is only 28. This stack is only 28 of the unbalanced budgets since 1969. We were afraid to put up the ones before 1969, which was the last year when we had a balanced budget in this country. So those who get up and say, `Well, we just simply ought to have the will to do it,' look at this stack. We are going to have to take it down because we are afraid somebody will get hurt. We wanted the American people to see just what they have lived with for 28 solid years, and that doesn't even count the years before. It is pitiful for people to stand up and say, `Well, we don't need a balanced budget amendment.' That is pitiful, too, 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-22-19970205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I yield to the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I was pleased that the Senate Judiciary Committee reported out today, I think a little bit before 2 o'clock, the balanced budget constitutional amendment 13 to 5. 
I want to personally express my appreciation to everybody on that committee for the cooperation that we had and for the effective debate that we had in getting that amendment out today. This will enable us to bring it up next week, if the leader so chooses. And I believe he does wish to bring the balanced budget amendment up next Wednesday. We will have the report filed by Monday. It is being circulated this afternoon. The minority will have 3 days to complete their remarks, or their position on the report, and then hopefully we will be in this battle next Wednesday. And I hope that we can have as much cooperation during the battle on the floor as we did in committee. 
It is a tough issue, and there are people on all sides of it. We do have to fight it out the best we can here on the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on a subject which I have frequently addressed in the past, one that is extremely important to me and I think to every Member of this body--in fact, to everybody in this country: judicial activism. 
We are witnessing today a rising tide of concern, shared not just by my Republican colleagues and myself, but indeed by an ever-growing segment of the public at large, about judicial activism and the prospect of filling the courts with more activists over the next 4 years. Today, when we talk about activists, we are talking about people who are substituting their own personal preferences for what the law really is--those who choose as unelected judges appointed for life to make laws from the bench and to usurp the powers of the legislative and executive branches of this Government. They are not elected to make the laws, but are appointed to interpret the laws. 
Today, I would like to point out an especially egregious abuse of judicial power about which I have just learned. Judge Gladys Kessler, a Clinton appointee to the District Court for the District of Columbia--that is the U.S. district court for the District of Columbia--took the truly extraordinary step, and as far as I know, a step which is virtually unprecedented in our Federal judicial system, and actually issued an order to show cause to three sitting U.S. Fourth Circuit judges--Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals judges, judges that are above her in the Federal system: Judges Karen Williams, Frances Murnaghan, and senior Judge Butzner. Judge Kessler in effect is seeking to force those appellate judges to come before her, a U.S. district court judge, and justify a decision that they recently handed down. Judge Kessler's order was personally served on Judge Williams' law clerk just yesterday. Let me tell you about this shocking order, dated January 3, 1997, and issued in Civil Action No. 96-2875-GK. 
In 1972, one Restoney Robinson pled guilty in North Carolina State court to first-degree murder. 
He was sentenced to life in prison, and he has since been imprisoned in North Carolina--which is located within the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals' jurisdiction. After losing all of his appeals in the State courts, this convicted murderer, Mr. Robinson, has apparently been peppering the Federal district court for the middle district of North Carolina with frivolous petitions and, appealing the denials of those petitions to the higher court, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. I understand that Mr. Robinson has brought more than 80 such actions. 
This past October, a panel of fourth circuit judges, comprised of Judges Williams and Murnaghan and Senior Judge Butzner, denied Robinson's most recent frivolous appeal. In what can only be described as a truly bizarre, indeed lawless, action, Judge Kessler not only entertained the habeas corpus petition from Mr. Robinson, a petition over which she had absolutely no jurisdiction whatsoever, since Mr. Robinson is imprisoned in North Carolina, but had the gall to issue an order to those fourth circuit judges--requiring them within 30 days to come before her and explain to her, and to Mr. Robinson, the convicted murderer, why he should not be released from prison. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I have been critical of the activism of many of President Clinton's judges, and let me tell you I have read many an activist decision in the last few years, but I have never ever seen, nor heard of, a district court judge requiring circuit court of appeals judges to justify their decision, let alone circuit court of appeals judges from an altogether different circuit. In fact, we have consulted with a number of Federal court scholars who have told the committee that to their knowledge such an action is unprecedented. I should hope so. 
In short, Judge Kessler's order can only be explained as a blatant abuse of judicial authority and disregard for the basic structure of our Federal courts, or perhaps at the very least a gross oversight. But in any event, it is confounding and it is dumbfounding. That Judge Kessler apparently believes she somehow has the power to review fourth circuit judges' opinions is, quite frankly, nothing short of appalling and represents the worst short of judicial hubris. 
Perhaps Judge Kessler does not appreciate the gravity of her actions or perhaps she is trying to make a statement. Either way, however, her order is very disturbing because it represents either a fundamental disregard for, or ignorance of, the most basic limits on judicial power. 
Mr. President, when Republicans point out the activism of Clinton nominees, we are accused of using selective criteria. But as Clinton judges issue more and more activist decisions, it is becoming clear that a great number of them are--by any criterion--activist judges. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. There is none. It is absolutely astounding. Here is a Federal district judge, trial court judge in the District of Columbia, who has absolutely no connection to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, telling appellate judges that they must come before her and explain why this murderer's frivolous appeal was denied. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. No. If I understand it, the crime was in North Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Or from New York. If we can have judges, district court judges, trial court judges in the District of Columbia issue an order to appellate judges in the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, then the structure and rationality of our Federal judicial system would be thrown into disarray. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I do not know that they know about it, but they certainly are going to know about it after we finish here today, 
because it is unbelievable. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. We intend to let the Justice Department know, but, more importantly, I think, I am serving notice around here that we are not going to continue to sit back and tolerate these activist judges. Nobody has been more fair to the Clinton judicial nominations than I have. But many of these nominees have come in here and said we are not going to be activist judges; we are not going to usurp the powers of the executive and legislative branches of Government; we are going to do what judges should do, and that is interpret the laws that are made by those who are elected. All of them mouth that kind of language, but when it comes right down to it, a significant number of them are, one on the bench, engaging in patently activist judging and usurping powers that they do not have. 
So I am just serving notice that we are on to the games these nominees are playing, and do not intend to let this game go on. We are going to do what it takes to weed out those nominees who pay lip service to judicial restraint, but then think they can do anything they want to once they don their robes. 
There are limitations to the judiciary. The judiciary can preserve itself and keep the high opinion of the American people by not acting as activists, by not usurping the powers of the other two separated branches of Government, and by living within the limits of the Third Branch. 
I do not care whether activism comes from the right or whether it comes from the left. It is wrong, and I have never seen a more flagrant case of something that is wrong than this case. That is why I wanted to bring it to the attention of the Senate and also serve notice that we are going to treat the judgeship nominees over the next 4 years with the utmost diligence and scrutiny. 
We appoint Federal judges for a lifetime, and accordingly expect them to live up to the high calling of the judiciary; to appreciate the inherent limits on judicial power, and not to substitute their own policy preferences for that which the law requires. 
I hope that this sends a message to everybody, and I am serious about it. As one who has taken a lot of abuse from both sides on judges--including my own Republican colleagues--I am serving notice that we do not intend to allow this rising tide of judicial activism to continue. The integrity of our judiciary, and our very right to self-government is at stake. 
I thank my colleague. I yield the floor. 
Mr. DAMATO addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970130</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President I really enjoyed the remarks of my distinguished colleague from New Hampshire. He makes a lot of very telling and important points in the field of health care. I think he deserves to be listened to, as certainly the distinguished doctor sitting in the chair, the Presiding Officer. As everybody knows, he has great interest in health care matters. 
And I just want to say that I appreciate the work of both of these Senators, the Senator from New Hampshire and the Senator from Tennessee, in this area.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970123</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I join the millions of Americans whose holidays were made just a little brighter this year by the sight of the magnificent 70-foot Engleman Spruce from Utah's Manti-LaSalle National Forest. 
I speak not only of those fortunate enough to see the tree in Washington, but of others who saw this giant tree of the great American west pass through their cities and towns en route to Washington. Like the relay that brought the Olympic flame to Atlanta, the journey for Utah's centennial Christmas tree required no less in the way of planning and cooperation. 
Many individuals and organizations contributed to this project. In a true holiday spirit, Mack trucks, which has a subsidiary in Pleasant Grove, UT, generously transported this special tree, along with 40 smaller trees to be displayed at other sites in the Nation's Capital, the 2,000 miles to Washington. 
Stops along the way included Salt Lake City, UT; Cheyenne, WY; Spearfish, Rapid City, Pierre, and Sioux Falls, SD; LaCrosse, WI; South Bend, IN; Pittsburgh and Allentown, PA; and Hagerstown, MD. At each stop, people came out to see this great symbol of the season and to spread holiday cheer and good will. 
At its final destination, in Washington, on the west lawn of the U.S. Capitol, the tree was appropriately welcomed with holiday carols sung by the Salt Lake Symphonic Choir and the Congressional Chorus. Speaker Gingrich's two nieces threw the switch that illuminated this spectacular Christmas tree. The staff of the Architect of the Capitol should be commended for the wonderful job they did erecting the tree and decorating it with the ornaments made by Utah's children. 
Mr. President, Utah takes special pride in having provided the national holiday tree from its soil, particularly during the year commemorating our centennial anniversary as a State. And, we were proud that Utah's history was also a part of this holiday display. Under the tree was a miniature railroad to commemorate another great Utah event: the joining of the Nation's railway system with a golden spike at Promontory, UT, in 1869. Those who conceived and constructed these railroad cars did a fantastic job. 
Finally, Mr. President, I want to reiterate a special note of thanks to the organizations and companies that worked diligently to make the tree the great success that it became. They include the many local communities surrounding Orem, UT; Utah's U.S. Forest Service personnel; the Utah Automotive Club; and such corporate sponsors as Mack trucks, D.M. Bowman, Inc.; Poulan weedeater; and the Hale Brake and Wheel Co. Few efforts like this are successful without the support of the community, and these organizations among many others helped to make Utah's centennial tree to the District of Columbia project possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I also want to note that I have filed three other bills today; in particular, the Curt Flood Act of 1997, which is the baseball antitrust bill that I believe now is coming to fruition, which is something that we have tried to do for a long time. We have named it after Curt Flood, who died a day or so ago, and who really deserves the recognition because of the fights that he led on this act in organized baseball. That is S. 53. 
We have also filed S. 54, which is the Federal Gang Violence Act of 1997, a bill by Senator Feinstein and myself. She has worked very hard with me and others on the Judiciary Committee, and we certainly want to mention her sterling work on that bill. 
Finally, the Civil Justice Fairness Act of 1997, which is already introduced. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
Mr. ASHCROFT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am introducing today, along with Senators Leahy, Thurmond, and Moynihan, the Curt Flood Act of 1997, clarifying the applicability of antitrust law to major league baseball. This legislation, which is basically the same bill that was approved by the Judiciary Committee last Congress, marks what I hope will be the final chapter in a long and, at times, frustrating effort to correct a mistaken decision by the Supreme Court. 
As was true before, the bill simply makes clear that major league baseball, like all other professional sports, is subject to our Nation's antitrust laws, except with regard to team relocation, the minor leagues, and sports broadcasting. It overturns the Court's mistaken premise that baseball is not a business involved in interstate commerce, and it eliminates the unjustifiable legal precedent that individuals who play professional baseball should be treated differently from those who participate in other professional sports. 
In 1922, in Federal Baseball Club of Baltimore v. National League of Professional Baseball Clubs, 259 U.S. 200 (1922), the Supreme Court ruled that professional baseball was immune from the reach of the Federal antitrust laws because baseball was not a business in interstate commerce. Obviously, the Court at that time could not have imagined the modern game or a 1993 World Series where Canada's Toronto Blue Jays defeated the Philadelphia Phillies in games that were televised literally around the world. 
Fifty years after the Supreme Court's decision in Federal Baseball Club, the Court rendered its decision in Flood v. Kuhn, which repudiated the legal basis of its prior decision as an `anomaly' and `aberration confined to baseball' but, because of its reluctance to overturn long-standing decisions, left the job of remedying its mistake to Congress. 
Unfortunately, Congress has been reluctant to follow the Court's instruction. In the past, it has been argued that this issue was not ripe, that it should not be considered too close to a labor dispute or, as was the case most recently, that it should not be discussed during a labor dispute. Fortunately, that now infamous dispute, which has done so much to tarnish the game, is resolved. The time has come to pass this legislation. 
Moreover, for the first time, the primary impediment to passage has been eliminated. In the new collective bargaining agreement the owners have pledged to work with the players to pass legislation that makes clear that professional baseball is subject to the antitrust laws with regard to labor relations. 
It is our hope that this year, Congress will finally rectify the Court's mistake and make clear once and for all that baseball no longer has any claim to antitrust immunity. It has been 25 years since Curt Flood jeopardized his career by unsuccessfully challenging baseball's reserve clause, a suit which resulted in the unfortunate decision mentioned above. 
Yesterday, Curt Flood tragically died of throat cancer at the age of 59. The hearts of baseball fans all over the country go out to Mr. Flood's family. I join these fans in expressing my deepest regrets to the Flood family, and let me suggest today that the time has come to finish what Curt Flood so courageously began. 
Let me emphasize that our bill does not impose a big government solution to baseball's problems. On the contrary, it would get government out of the way by eliminating a serious government-made obstacle to resolution of the labor difficulties in baseball. Baseball's antitrust immunity has distorted labor relations in major league baseball and has sheltered baseball from the market forces that have allowed the other professional sports, such as football and basketball, to thrive. 
I should note that comparable legislation has been introduced in the other body by Mr. Conyers of Michigan, the ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee, whose bill bears Mr. Flood's number. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-2-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Federal Gang Violence Act. I am pleased to be joined in this important effort by Senator Feinstein, as well as by Senators D'Amato, Harkin, and Reid. 
Gang violence in many of our communities is reaching frightening levels. Last year, my hometown of Salt Lake City was shocked by a particularly awful example. Asipeli Mohi, a 17-year-old Utahn, was tried and convicted of the gang-related beating and shooting death of another teenager, Aaron Chapman. Why was Aaron Chapman murdered? He was wearing red, apparently the color of a rival gang. Ironically, Mr. Chapman was on his way home from attending an anti-gang benefit concert when he was killed. Before committing this murder, the killer had racked up a record of five felonies and fifteen misdemeanors in juvenile court. Sadly, this example of senseless gang violence is not an isolated incident in my State or elsewhere. It is a scene replayed with disturbing frequency. 
Gang violence is now common even in places where this would have been unthinkable several years ago. Indeed, many people find it hard to believe that Salt Lake City or Ogden could have such a problem--gangs, they think, are a problem in cities like New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, but not in our smaller cities. 
However, reality is much grimmer. Since 1992, gang activity in Salt Lake City has increased tremendously. For instance, the number of identified gangs has increased fifty-five percent, from 185 to 288, and the number of gang members has increased 146 percent, from 1,438 to 3,545. 
The number of gang-related crimes has increased a staggering 196 percent, from 1,741 in 1992 to 5,158 in the first eleven months of 1996. In 1995, there were 174 gang-related drive-by shootings, and in the first eleven months of 1996, this dismaying statistic increased to 207. 
Our problem is severe. Moreover, there is a significant role the federal government can play in fighting this battle. I am not one to advocate the unbridled extension of federal jurisdiction. Indeed, I often think that we have federalized too many crimes. However, in the case of criminal street gangs, 
which increasingly are moving interstate to commit crimes, there is a very proper role for the federal government to play. 
This bill will strengthen the coordinated, cooperative response of federal, state, and local law enforcement to criminal street gangs by providing more flexibility to the federal partners in this effort. It provides the federal prosecutorial tools needed to combat gang violence. Violent crimes committed by youth continue to be the fastest growing type of crime. Indeed, even as the general crime rate has leveled off, or even declined slightly over the last couple of years, violent youth crime, much of it committed by gangs, has increased. As my colleagues know, the sophistication and the interstate nature of these gangs has increased as well. 
This bill puts teeth into the federal gang statute, by adding tough penalties based on the existing Continuing Criminal Enterprise statute in title 21 [21 U.S.C. 848]. Federal prosecutors will be able to charge gang leaders or members under this section if they engage in two or more criminal gang offenses. 
These offenses include violent crimes, serious drug crimes, drug money laundering, extortion, and obstruction of justice--all offenses commonly committed by gangs. 
Our bill adds a one to ten year sentence for the recruitment of persons into a gang. Importantly, there are even tougher penalties for recruiting a minor into a gang, including a four year mandatory minimum sentence. 
The bill adds the use of a minor in a crime to the list of offenses for which a person can be prosecuted under the federal racketeering laws, known as RICO. 
It enhances the penalties for transferring a handgun to a minor, knowing that it will be used in a crime of violence, and adds a new federal sentencing enhancement for the use of body armor in the commission of a federal crime. 
Finally, the legislation we introduce today adds serious juvenile drug offenses to the list of predicates under the federal Armed Career Criminal Act, and authorizes $20 million over five years to hire federal prosecutors to crack down on criminal gangs. 
Mr. President, these are common sense, needed provisions. They're tough. We need to get tough with gangs who recruit kids with the lure of easy money and glamour. This legislation is not a panacea for our youth violence crisis. But it is a large and critical step in addressing this issue. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this bill, and urge their support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-3-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. 
Mr. President, for many years, Congress has recognized that private institutions can often provide better service in certain areas than the government. In this regard, membership organizations that serve various public needs are given tax-exempt treatment. However, some tax-exempt membership organizations are involved in political and lobbying activities. These activities may or may not meet with the approval of those who pay dues and certainly should not be subsidized by the taxpayers. 
Today, I am introducing legislation that is designed to rectify this problem. My bill is very simple. It requires tax-exempt membership organizations to disclose to their members these political activities and organizational resources spent on them. In addition, this bill will give the members of these tax-exempt organizations the opportunity to deduct the nonpolitical portion of their dues for income tax purposes without regard to the so-called `two percent limitation.' 
First, let me discuss the issue of full disclosure. 
Mr. President, in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, Congress disallowed a deduction for expenses relating to lobbying and political activities. Lobbying is no longer a legitimate deductible expense for American businesses. Since tax-exempt organizations generally do not pay any income tax, the law was amended to further disallow an individual taxpayer a tax deduction for the portion of annual dues paid to a tax-exempt organization that is attributable to any lobbying or political activities of the organization. To assist association members in knowing what portion is and what portion is not deductible when paying their dues, the law requires organizations to annually disclose to the IRS and to the individual members the amount of money spent on political activities by the organization. 
However, certain exceptions to the disclosure rules are provided in the tax code and an organization is not required to disclose such information if (1) political activities do not exceed $2,000 a year; (2) the organization elects to pay a proxy tax on the nondeductible portion in order to avoid providing disclosure; or (3) substantially all of the individual members do not deduct their annual dues payments on their tax returns as itemized deductions. 
In 1995, the IRS put forth an interpretation of this third exception and explained what they believe Congress meant by substantially all dues are not deductible. In Revenue Procedure 95-35, the IRS let all but three categories of tax-exempt organizations off the hook from the disclosure rules. The three that must comply are: section 501(c)(4) organizations that are not veterans organizations, 501(c)(5) agricultural and horticultural organizations, and 501(c)(6) organizations. 
Interestingly, Mr. President, the IRS choose to grant labor unions, which are also 501(c)(5) organizations, a complete exemption from the lobbying disclosure rules. Thus, unions do not have to inform their members how much of their dues are used for political purposes. 
I am sure that my colleagues see the obvious problems in this. It is simply not fair that the IRS would treat a labor union preferentially. Why are unions exempt and not, for example, farm cooperatives? 
Mr. President, it seems to me that the Clinton administration has twisted the law to favor their friends in union leadership at the expense of the right to know for the rank and file. Let me reiterate this point: the law says clearly that tax-exempt organizations must disclose their political and lobbying activities. It is only the IRS interpretation that enables unions to duck this disclosure requirement and still benefit from tax-exempt status. 
Second, I find it outrageous that union leadership are able to coerce dues from workers in many states as a condition of employment. But, it adds insult to injury that those dues can be used for political purposes without the knowledge, let alone permission, of the rank and file. 
The Supreme Court, in 1988, in Beck v. Communication Workers of America, declared that workers were entitled to know how much of their dues were being directed to political uses and to receive a refund for that portion of dues paid. This seems like a simple common sense solution to this violation of free speech rights. However, in one of his first acts upon taking office in 1993, President Clinton rescinded the executive order enforcing this decision of the Supreme Court. 
Mr. President, in the Beck case, for example, it was found that only 21 percent of the dues collected by the Communications Workers of America went for bargaining-related activities. This meant that Harry Beck, the former Maryland union shop steward who spent 13 years fighting his case in the courts, was entitled to get a substantial rebate of his dues, plus interest. Yet, this case is merely illustrative of a widespread injustice. Where is the fairness in requiring a worker to contribute to a political cause or a lobbying effort with which he or she does not agree? 
Forcing people to contribute portions of their earnings to political causes they oppose violates their First Amendment rights. In his Beck opinion, Justice William Brennen cited Thomas Jefferson's view that forcing people to finance opinions they disagree with was `sinful and tyrannical.' 
Mr. President, it is often a requirement or a condition of employment for workers to be members of a labor union. Yet, this requirement is often very costly. Union dues can run from about $300 to over $1,000 a year. Now, I am the first to acknowledge that unions play an important role in employee-employer relations. I will wager that I am one of the few members of this body who was ever a member of a union. And, that experience, perhaps, is the reason I believe so strongly that the rank and file have rights that must be protected. 
Citizens of a free country ought to be free to spend their own money on the political causes and candidates they wish to support. In 1992, union officials admit to having spent at least $92 million on political contributions and expenses. In-kind contributions could be 3 to 5 times that amount. In other words, organized labor may have actually spent from $300 million to $500 million on political activities in 1992. While some union members would approve of these expenditures, some definitely would not. 
But, I want to be absolutely clear that the bill I am introducing today does not affect any provision in the National Labor Relations Act, the ability of unions to establish closed or agency shops in any state where they are currently permitted, or the ability of unions to assess dues or collect fees. Those are debates for another day. 
Rather, this bill deals only with the obligation of labor unions, as tax exempt organizations, to disclose political and lobbying activities to their members. All union members deserve to know how their organizations spend their money. Moreover, because these are tax-exempt organizations, the taxpayers deserve to know what they are subsidizing. 
While union members are certainly capable of reading a headline like, `Union leaders commit $35 million to Democrats,' they may wish to have a more comprehensive disclosure of political and lobbying activity financed with their dues--and I cannot blame them one bit. 
Mr. President, polling data suggests that union members would prefer that their unions not engage in partisan political campaign activities at all. But, by an overwhelming 84 percent to 9 percent margin, according to a survey by Luntz and Associates, union members want to force their union leaders to explain what happens to their dues. They simply want to know where the money is spent and why. This seems utterly reasonable and fair to me. 
Furthermore, only 19 percent of union members know that they can request a refund if they do not agree with an ideological position and/or political position of their particular union. When told that they have the right to a refund, 20 percent say they would `definitely' request their money back, and another 20 percent would be `very likely' to request a refund. 
Mr. President, let me turn to the issue of deductibility. 
Currently, an individual union member may deduct his union dues only if the amount exceed two percent of his or her adjusted gross income [AGI]. For all intents and purposes, this means that union dues and fees are not deductible at all for most workers, even if such dues and fees are required as a condition of employment. 
I believe that union dues and fees, especially to the extent that so many workers are forced to pay them, ought to be fully deductible for those who itemize deductions. Therefore, I am proposing this bill to remove the two percent threshold and to permit union members and fee payers to deduct that portion of their dues and fees that is not used for political or lobbying activities. This conforms union dues and fees with all other sorts of business expenses and contributions to tax-exempt organizations. 
Moreover, this deduction is a form of tax break that could put real money back in the pockets of American workers. 
Mr. President, to summarize, if my bill is enacted into law, tax-exempt organizations would be required--really required--to disclose to their members the amount of their political and lobbying activities. It goes further by allowing full deductibility of membership dues to the extent they are used for nonpolitical or lobbying activities. 
Mr President, this proposal is a step in the direction of campaign finance reform. One important objective of campaign finance reform should be to return political power to individual citizens and to diminish the influence of large organizational special interests. 
Well, Mr. President, knowledge has always been power. To return power to individual voters, they need to know where their dollars are going. If my bill is passed, workers will no longer be in the dark about their dues. At the same time they will be getting a tax break and possibly an increase in their take-home pay. I believe this is the fair and honest thing to do. I urge all my colleagues to support and cosponsor this bill.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-4-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am pleased to be joined by Senators Lieberman, Grassley, and Breaux in introducing the Capital Formation Act of 1997. 
Mr. President, reducing the high rate on capital gains has long been a priority of mine. During the last Congress, I joined my good friend, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Bill Archer, in sponsoring the Archer-Hatch capital gains bill. Then later in the session Senator Lieberman and I offered a bipartisan capital gains tax reduction bill. The Hatch/Lieberman bill, S. 959, contained the same 50 percent deduction for capital gains as well as an enhanced incentive for investments in newly issued stock of small corporations. This measure was supported by 45 senators, and we were pleased that its provisions were included in the Balanced Budget Act of 1995. 
The bill we are introducing today is substantially the same. Our bill combines two important elements of capital gains relief with a broad based tax cut and a targeted incentive to give an extra push for newly formed or expanding small businesses. Like the capital gains measure that passed the House and Senate during the last Congress, our bill would allow individual taxpayers to deduct 50 percent of any net capital gain. This means that the top capital gains tax rate for individuals would be 19.8 percent. Also, it grants a 25-percent maximum capital gains tax rate for corporations. Our bill also includes an important provision that would allow homeowners who sell their personal residences at a loss to take a capital gains deduction. 
A provision that is not in our bill is a provision for indexing assets. Many of our Senate colleagues have expressed concern that indexing capital assets would result in undue complexity and possibly lead to a resurgence of tax shelters. While I continue to support the concept of indexing capital assets to prevent the taxation of inflationary gains, I believe even more strongly that capital gains tax relief is essential for our long-term economic growth. Therefore, in an effort to streamline this bill and expedite its passage, we have omitted the indexing provisions. I hope that some form of indexing can be developed that will achieve the goals of indexing without adding undue complexity or the potential for abuse. 
In addition to the broad-based provisions listed above, our bill also includes some extra capital gains incentives targeted to individuals and corporations who are willing to invest in small businesses. We see this add-on as an inducement for investors to provide the capital needed to help small businesses get established and to expand. 
Mr. President, this additional targeted incentive works as follows: If an investor buys newly issued stock of a qualified small business, which is defined as one with up to $100 million in assets, and holds that stock for three or more years, he or she can deduct 75 percent of the gain on the sale of that stock, rather than just the 50 percent deduction provided for other capital gains. 
In addition, any time after the end of the 3 year period, if the investor decides to sell the stock of one qualified small business and invest in another qualified small business, he or she can completely defer the gain on the sale of the first stock and not pay taxes on the gain until the second stock is sold. In essence, the investor is allowed to roll over the gain into the new stock until he or she sells the stock and cashes out the assets. We think that this additional incentive will make a tremendous amount of capital available for new and expanding small businesses in this country. 
In particular, these special incentives should really make a difference in the electronics, biotechnology, and other high tech industries that are so important to our economy and to our future. The software and medical device industries in Utah are perfect examples of how these industries have transformed our economy. While these provisions are not limited to high tech companies by any means, these are the types of businesses that are most likely to use them because it is so hard to attract capital for these higher risk ventures. In addition, many start-up companies have large research and development needs. With the uncertainty of the R&E tax credit, this bill will give investors an incentive to fund high risk research companies that may be a Novell or Thiokol of tomorrow. 
Mr. President, our economy is becoming more connected to the global marketplace every day. And, it is vital for us to realize that capital flows across national boundaries very rapidly. Therefore, we need to be concerned with how our trading partners tax capital and investment income. 
Unfortunately, the U.S. has the highest tax rate on individual capital gains of all of the G-7 nations, except the U.K. And, even in the U.K., individuals can take advantage of indexing to alleviate capital gains caused solely by inflation. For example, Germany totally exempts long-term capital gains on securities. In Japan, investors pay the lesser of 1 percent of the sales price or 20 percent of the net gain. I think it is no coincidence, Mr. President, that Germany's saving rate is twice ours, and Japan's is three times as high as ours. In order to stay competitive in the world, it is vital that our tax laws provide the proper incentive to attract the capital we need here in the U.S. 
We are aware that some of the opponents of capital gains tax reductions have asserted that such changes would inordinately benefit the wealthy, leaving little or no tax relief for the lower and middle income classes. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, capital gains taxation affects every homeowner, every employee who participates in a stock purchase plan, or every senior citizen who relies on income from mutual funds for their basic needs during retirement. A capital gains tax cut is for everybody. 
It is interesting to note how the current treatment of capital gains only gives preferential treatment to those taxpayers whose incomes lie in the highest tax brackets. Under the Capital Formation Act of 1997, the benefits will tilt decidedly toward the middle-income taxpayer. A married couple with $30,000 in taxable income who sells a capital asset would, under our bill, pay only a 7.5-percent tax on the capital gain. Further, this bill would slash the taxes retired seniors pay when they sell the assets they have accumulated for income during retirement. 
I also believe there is a misperception about the term `capital asset.' We tend to think of capital assets as something only wealthy persons have. In fact, a capital asset is a savings account--which we should all have--a piece of land, a savings bond, some stock your grandmother gave you, a mutual fund share, your house, your farm, your 1964 Mustang convertible, or any number of things that have monetary worth. It is misleading to imply that only `the wealthy' would benefit from this bill. 
I want to elaborate on this point, Mr. President. Current law already provides a sizeable differential between ordinary income tax rates and capital gains tax rates for upper income taxpayers. The wealthiest among us pay up to 39.6 percent on ordinary income but only 28 percent on capital gains. We certainly believe that income tax rates are too high. And, for middle-income taxpayers in the 28 percent income tax bracket, there is no difference between their capital gains rate and their ordinary income rate. Thus, current law provides no tax incentive for middle income taxpayers to invest assets that may have capital gains. Our bill would correct this problem and give the largest percentage rate reduction to the lowest income taxpayers. For example, the rate for high income earners would change from 28 percent to 19.8 percent--a 8.2 percentage point reduction. Whereas, a middle income taxpayer--who is getting no benefit under current law--would be taxed at 14 percent--a 14 percentage point reduction. 
Frankly, Mr. President, the introduction of a bipartisan capital gains bill couldn't come at a better time than now. Congress is in the midst of formulating a plan to balance the federal budget. The elements of this plan will have consequences far beyond this year or even beyond 2002 when we hope to achieve our balanced budget goal. Crucial to the achievement of a balanced budget is the underlying growth and strength of our economy. Small changes in the behavior of the economy can make or break our ability to put our fiscal house in order. Thus, especially now, we can ill afford to have our economy slow down and create an increased fear of future job insecurity. Both Republicans and Democrats alike can agree that the creation of new and secure jobs is imperative for a vibrant and growing economy. 
This is where a reduction of the capital gains rate can be so important. By stimulating the economy and spurring job creation, a cut in the capital gains rate can stave off the downturn that may be on its way. 
Many Americans have expressed concern about the wisdom of a tax reduction while we are trying to balance the budget. However, Mr. President, we see this bill as a change that will help us balance the budget. The evidence clearly shows that a cut in the capital gains tax rate will increase, not decrease, revenue to the Treasury. During the period from 1978 to 1985, the tax rate on capital gains was cut from almost 50 percent to 20 percent. Over this same period, however, tax receipts increased from $9.1 billion to $26.5 billion. The opposite occurred after the 1986 Tax Reform Act raised the capital gains tax rate. The higher rate resulted in less revenue. 
Mr. President, the capital gains tax is really a tax on realizing the American dream. For those Americans who have planted seeds in small or large companies, family farms, or other investments, and who have been fortunate enough and worked hard enough to see them grow, the capital gains tax is a tax on success. It is an additional tax on the reward for taking risks. The American dream is not dead; it's just that we have been taxing it away. 
I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to take a close look at this bill. We believe it offers a solid plan to help us achieve our goal of a brighter future for our children and grandchildren. When it comes down to it, jobs, economic growth, and entrepreneurship are not partisan issues. They are American issues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-5-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation which will at last deal with one of the most unfair aspects of our civil justice system--the availability of multiple awards of punitive damages for the same wrongful act. I introduced identical legislation last Congress, in the form of S. 671, and I hope that we can move this bill in the 105th Congress. 
While there are countless abuses and excesses in our civil justice system, the fact that one defendant may face repeated punishment for the same conduct is one of the most egregious and unconscionable. This can happen in a variety of ways, but in any case is unjust and unfair. A defendant might, for example, be sued by a different plaintiff for essentially the same action, or might be sued by the same parties in a different state based on essentially the same conduct. The only effective means of addressing these problems is through a nationwide solution, which the legislation I introduce today would provide. 
Significantly, this legislation will not affect the compensatory damages that injured parties will be entitled to receive. Even in cases of multiple lawsuits based on the same conduct, under this legislation injured parties will be entitled to receive full compensatory damages when they are wrongfully harmed. My legislation deals only with punitive damages. Punitive damages are not intended to compensate injured plaintiffs or make them whole, but rather constitute punishment and an effort to deter future egregious misconduct. Punitive damages reform is not about shielding wrongdoers from liability, nor does such reform prevent victims of wrongdoing from being rightfully compensated for their damages. It is about ensuring that wrongdoers do not face excessive and unfair punishments. 
I certainly do not argue that a person or company that acts maliciously should not be subject to punitive damages. But it is neither just nor fair for a defendant to face the repeated imposition of punitive damages in several states for the same act or conduct, as our system currently permits. Exorbitant and out-of-control punitive damage awards also have the effect of punishing innocent people: employees, consumers, shareholders, and others who ultimately pay the price of these outrageous awards. 
This is not a hypothetical problem. Last Term, the Supreme Court considered a case, BMW v. Gore, in which a state court let stand a multimillion dollar punitive damage award against an automobile distributor who failed to inform a buyer that his new vehicle had been refinished to cure superficial paint damage. The defendant in that case could be exposed to thousands of claims based on the same conduct. 
The plaintiff, a purchaser of a $40,000 BMW automobile, learned nine months after his purchase that his vehicle might have been partially refinished. As a result of the discovery, he sued the automobile dealer, the North American distributor, and the manufacturer for fraud and breach of contract. He also sought an award for punitive damages. He won a ridiculously high award of punitive damages. 
At trial, the jury was allowed to assess damages for each of the partially refinished vehicles that had been sold throughout the United States over a period of ten years. As sought by the plaintiff's attorney, the jury returned a verdict of $4,000 in compensatory damages and $4,000,000 in punitive damages. On appeal to the state supreme court, the punitive damage award was reduced to $2 million, applicable to the North American distributor. 
On reviewing the BMW v. Gore case, the United States Supreme Court recognized that excessive punitive damages `implicate the federal interest in preventing individual states from imposing undue burdens on interstate commerce.' While that decision for the first time recognizes some outside limits on punitive damage awards, the Court's decision leaves ample room for legislative action. Legislative reforms are now--more than ever before--desperately needed to set up the appropriate boundaries. 
In the 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court held that the $2 million punitive damages award was grossly excessive and therefore violated the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court remanded the case, and the majority opinion set out three guideposts for assessing the excessiveness of a punitive damages award: the reprehensibility of the conduct being punished, the ratio between compensatory and punitive damages, and the difference between the punitive award and criminal or civil sanctions that could be imposed for comparable conduct. 
Unfortunately, even under the Supreme Court's decision, this same defendant can be sued again and again for punitive damages by every owner of a partially refinished vehicle. The company could still be sued for punitive damages for the same act in every other state in which it sold one of its vehicles. In fact, the very same plaintiffs' attorney who filed the BMW v. Gore case filed numerous similar lawsuits against BMW. 
Defendants and consumers are not the only ones hurt by excessive, multiple punitive damage awards. Ironically, other victims can be those the system is intended to benefit--the injured parties themselves. Funds that might otherwise be available to compensate later victims can be wiped out at any early stage by excessive punitive damage awards. 
The imposition of multiple punitive damage awards in different states for the same act is an issue that can be addressed only through federal legislation. If only one state limits such awards, other states still remain free to impose multiple punitive damages. The fact is that a federal response in this area is the only viable solution. 
This bill provides that response by generally prohibiting the award of multiple punitive damages. With one exception, the bill prevents courts from awarding punitive damages based on the same act or course of conduct for which punitive damages have already been awarded against the same defendant. Under the exception, an additional award of punitive damages may be permitted if the court determines that the claimant will offer new and substantial evidence of previously undiscovered, wrongful behavior on the part of the defendant. In those circumstances, the court must make specific findings of fact to support the award, must reduce the amount of punitive damages awarded by the amounts of prior punitive damages based on the same acts, and may not disclose to the jury the court's determination and action under the provisions. The provisions would not apply to any action brought under a federal or state statute that specifically mandates the amount of punitive damages to be awarded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-6-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I introduce the Civil Justice Fairness Act of 1997. Last Congress, I introduced a similar bill that, had it been enacted, would have granted significant relief from litigation abuses to individuals, consumers, small businesses and others. Unfortunately, given President Clinton's repeated vetoes of litigation reform measures in the 104th Congress, it was clear that we would be unable to enact more broad-reaching civil justice reform. 
This Congress, I urge my colleagues to revisit the important issue of litigation reform. Product liability reform remains badly needed, as do the more comprehensive reforms of the civil litigation system embodied in my civil justice reform bill, the Civil Justice Fairness Act of 1997. 
Americans in Utah and every other State overwhelmingly agree that there is a crying need for reform of our civil justice system. They are sick and tired of the abuses of our system, and are fed up with million dollar awards for scratched paint jobs, spilled coffee, and other minor harms. The system fails to deliver justice in far too many cases. Success for plaintiffs can depend more on chance than the merits of the case, and defendants may find themselves forced to settle for significant sums in circumstances in which they have done little or no wrong, simply due to the high litigation costs involved in defending against a weak or frivolous lawsuit. 
I have gone through the litany of problems with our civil justice system time and time again. They continue to include excessive legal fees and costs, dilatory and sometimes abusive litigation practices, the increasing use of `junk science' as evidence, and the risk of unduly large punitive damage awards. 
The problems with our current civil justice system have resulted in several perverse effects. First, all too often the system fails to accomplish its most important function--to compensate deserving plaintiffs adequately. Second, it imposes unnecessarily high litigation costs on all parties. Those costs are passed along to consumers--in effect, to each and every American--in the form of higher prices for products and services we buy. Those costs can even harm our nation's competitiveness in the global economy. 
Congress must face these problems and enact meaningful legislation reforming our civil justice system. Reforms are needed to eliminate abuses and procedural problems in litigation, and to restore to the American people a civil justice system deserving of their 
trust, confidence and support. To achieve this goal, I am introducing civil justice reform legislation. This bill will correct some of the more serious abuses in our present civil justice system through a number of provisions. 
The legislation will address the problems of excessive punitive damage awards and of multiple punitive damage awards. We all know that punitive damage awards are out of control in this country. Further, the imposition of multiple punitive damages for the same wrongful act raises particular concerns about the fairness of punitive damages and their ability to serve the purposes of punishment and deterrence for which they are intended. 
The Supreme Court, legal scholars, practicing litigators, and others have acknowledged for years that punitive damages may raise serious constitutional issues. A decision from the U.S. Supreme Court last term finally held that in certain circumstances a punitive damage award may violate due process and provided guidance as to when that would occur. 
In the case, BMW versus Gore, the Supreme Court acknowledged that excessive punitive damages `implicate the federal interest in preventing individual states from imposing undue burdens on interstate commerce.' The decision for the fist time recognizes some outside limits on punitive damage awards. The Court's decision leaves plenty of room for legislative action, and legislative reforms are now needed more than ever to set up the appropriate boundaries. 
The decision also highlights some of the extreme abuses in our civil justice system. The BMW versus Gore case was brought by a doctor who had purchased a BMW automobile for $40,000 and later discovered that the car had been partially refinished prior to sale. He sued the manufacturer in Alabama State court on a theory of fraud, seeking compensatory and punitive damages. The jury found BMW liable for $4,000 in compensatory damages and $4 million in punitive damages. On appeal, the Alabama Supreme Court reduced the punitive damages award to $2 million--which still represents an astonishing award for such inconsequential harm. 
In its 5 to 4 decision, the Supreme Court held that the $2 million punitive damages award was grossly excessive and therefore violated the due process clause of the 14th amendment. The court remanded the case for further proceedings. The majority opinion set out three guideposts for courts to employ in assessing the constitutional excessiveness of a punitive damages award: the reprehensibility of the conduct being punished, the ratio between compensatory and punitive damages, and the difference between the punitive award and criminal or civil sanctions that could be imposed for comparable conduct. 
Justice Breyer, in a concurring opinion joined by Justices O'Connor and Souter, emphasized that, although constitutional due process protections generally cover purely procedural protections, the narrow circumstances of the case justified added protections to ensure that legal standards providing for discretion are adequately enforced so as to provide 
for the `application of law, rather than a decisionmaker's caprice.' Congress has a similar responsibility to ensure fairness in the litigation system and the application of law in that system. It is high time for Congress to provide specific guidance to courts on the appropriate level of damage awards, and to address other issues in the civil litigation system. 
The BMW case also illustrates the potential abuses of the system that can occur through the availability of multiple awards of punitive damages for essentially the same conduct. Under current law, the company can still, in every other state in which it sold one of its vehicles, be sued for punitive damages for the same act. 
Multiple punitive damage awards can hurt not only defendants but also injured parties. Funds that would otherwise be available to compensate later victims can be wiped out at any early stage by excessive punitive damage awards. A Federal response is critical: if only the one State limits such awards, other States still remain free to impose multiple punitive damages. An important provision in my bill limits these multiple punitive damage awards. I am also today introducing separate legislation that would deal only with the multiple punitive damages problem. 
In addition to reforming multiple punitive damage awards, my broad civil justice reform legislation addresses general abuses of punitive damages litigation. It includes a heightened standard of proof to ensure that punitive damages are awarded only if there is clear and convincing evidence that the harm suffered was the result of conduct either specifically intended to cause that harm, or carried out with conscious, flagrant indifference to the right or the safety of the claimant. 
The bill also provides that punitive damages may not be awarded against the seller of a drug or medical device that received pre-market approval from the Food and Drug Administration. 
Additionally, this legislation would allow a bifurcated trial, at the defendant's request, on the issue of punitive damages and limits the amount of the award to either $250,000 or three times the economic damages suffered by the claimant, whichever is greater. The bill provides a special limit in the cases of small business or individuals; in those cases, punitive damages will be limited to the lesser of $250,000 or three times economic damages. 
The legislation would also limit a defendant's joint liability for non-economic damages. In any civil case for personal injury, wrongful death, or based upon the principles of comparative fault, a defendant's liability for non-economic loss shall be several only and shall not be joint. The trier of fact will determine the proportional liability of each person, whether or not a party to the action, and enter separate judgments against each defendant. 
Another provision of this bill would shift costs and attorneys fees in circumstances in which a party has rejected a settlement offer, forcing the litigation to proceed, and then obtain a less favorable judgment. This provision encourages parties to act reasonably, 
rather than pursue lengthy and costly litigation. It allows a plaintiff or a defendant to be compensated for their reasonable attorneys fees and costs from the point at which the other party rejects a reasonable settlement offer. 
Another widely reported problem in our civil justice system is abuse in contingency fee cases. This bill encourages attorneys to disclose fully to clients the hours worked and fees paid in all contingency fee cases. The bill calls upon the Attorney General to draft model State legislation requiring such disclosure to clients. It also requires the Attorney General to study possible abuses in the area of contingency fees and, where such abuses are found, to draft model State legislation specifically addressing those problems. 
This legislation restricts the use of so-called `junk science' in the courtroom. This long overdue reform will improve the reliability of expert scientific evidence and permit juries to consider only scientific evidence that is objectively reliable. 
This legislation includes a provision for health care liability reform. It limits, in any health care liability action, the maximum amount of non-economic damages that may be awarded to a claimant of $250,000. This limit would apply regardless of the number of parties against whom the action is brought, and regardless of the number of claims or actions brought. To avoid prejudice to any parties, the jury would not be informed about the limitations on non-economic damages. 
This legislation would also establish a reasonable, uniform statute of limitations for the bringing of health care liability actions. Further, if damages for losses incurred after the date of judgment exceed $100,000, the Court shall allow the parties to have 60 days in which to negotiate an agreement providing for the payment of such damages in a lump sum, periodic payments, or a combination of both. If no agreement is reached, a defendant may elect to pay the damages on a periodic basis. Periodic payments for future damages would terminate in the event of the claimant's return to work, or upon the claimant's death. This is an exception for the portion of such payments allocable to future earnings, which shall be paid to any individual to whom the claimant owed a duty of support immediately prior to death, to the extent required by law at the time of the claimant's death. 
This legislation also allows states the freedom to experiment with alternative patient compensation systems based upon no-fault principles. The Secretary of Health and Human Services would award grants based on applications by interested states according to enumerated criteria and subject to enumerated reporting requirements. Persons or entities participating in such experimental systems may obtain from the Secretary a waiver from the provisions of this legislation for the duration of the experiment. The Secretary would collect information regarding these experiments and submit an annual report to Congress, including an assessment of the feasibility of implementing no-fault systems, and legislative recommendations, if any. 
I urge my colleagues to take a serious look at these problems within our civil justice system. I believe this bill addresses these issues in a common sense way, and I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-7-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, let me just say I compliment my colleagues for the excellent job they have done in coming up with the first 10 bills of this session. I think they are bills that the American people have to be very interested in. There is no question that each and every one is essential for the future of our country. I am very appreciative that so many colleagues are willing to cosponsor and to push these particular bills. 
Having said that, the No. 1 issue on our agenda is, as it has always been for Republicans and I think some very courageous Democrats as well, S.J. Res. 1, the balanced budget constitutional amendment. 
Mr. President, this is an amendment that literally could change the future of our country for the better. We are now approaching a $6 trillion deficit. It has been largely accumulated over the last 15 or 20 years. We have had a period of almost 60 years of unbalanced budgets, except on very rare occasions. 
The Senate and the Hose seem to be institutionally incapable of reaching balanced budget appropriations and budget acts. And I might add, the President is incapable, as well. If you look at the last budgets that the President has submitted, even the one that he called the balanced budget, it was heavily loaded in the rear end of the budget, in the last 2 years, knowing that there is no way in the world that when we ultimately reach 2001 and 2002 that we can actually balance the budget. 
It has been a phony game. It is time to end that game. It is time to literally strike out for the people of this country and for our children and grandchildren of future generations by getting our fiscal house in order. The only way that many of the now 62 cosponsors, and another 6 who have said to their constituents that they will vote for this amendment, it is the only way we can bring about a fiscal sanity that will reduce taxes, reduce the interest rates of our society, keep the stock market going, protect social security, Medicaid, Medicare, veterans pensions and other matters, by having a strong fiscal economy through the balanced budget amendment. 
We are very concerned. This is a major, major battle this year. We have 62 cosponsors--all 55 Republicans and 7 courageous Democrats so far. We have another six Democrats who have promised their people at home that they would vote for the balanced budget amendment. Everybody knows this game. Everybody knows there will be some killer amendments trying to defeat this amendment. In the end, everybody knows what the amendment is. It is precisely the same as that found in the House and that which will be brought up in the House. If we are ever going to get this fiscal house in order, this is the way to do it. It is only the first step. 
Even if both Houses of Congress do pass the balanced budget amendment by the requisite two-thirds vote, the amendment still has to be submitted to the States, and three-quarters of them, or 38 States, have to ratify the amendment. It is a very, very difficult process at best. 
I just believe this is the year to do it. I hope that everybody will live up to the commitments they have made to their constituents at home. If they do, we will have set this country on a fiscal order path that will be very beneficial for all of our children and grandchildren and future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-8-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I am delighted to yield to my colleague and friend from Idaho who I think has played not only a singularly important role in the Senate, but long has played a very important role when he was in the House of Representatives, as well, and has been a great partner in fighting this battle. I yield to the distinguished Senator from Idaho. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-9-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. I thank my colleague from Idaho for his excellent remarks and for his ardent fight for this amendment through the years. 
Mr. President, there are 13 Democrats who have promised to vote for this amendment. If we add all 55 Republicans and the 13 heroic Democrats who have agreed to vote for this amendment, that will give us 68 votes, 1 more than we need. We know the President is going to put on a full-court press. We also know that the minority leader and others will do the same. It is important that these people live up to the commitments they made to the constituents at home, and we are counting on them to do it. I believe they will. 
Thus far, only seven have cosponsored, but I believe the others will be on board when the debate comes to the floor. I hope, with all my heart, they realize how important this is. I hope they also realize how very deeply I feel about their courageous stand on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>105-hatch-ut-1-19970121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this is a very important bill. We know juvenile crime is on the increase. Gang violence is on the increase. This bill would take care of both of those problems, and it does it in an intelligent, official, and decent way. I hope that our colleagues on the other side will look at it carefully. We will certainly work with them and with Senator Biden and others on the Judiciary Committee to try and make sure that we do the best we can. 
This is an excellent bill. It would make immediate inroads into the problems of juvenile violence and crime and gang violence. I hope all of our colleagues will get behind this and support it. 
Mr. President, this is a very important omnibus crime bill if we want to do something about crime in this society. In addition to what we have done in the past, this is an excellent Republican alternative to the violent crime that we have in the streets, the drugs permeating our society, and, of course, the many other difficulties that are literally making our society a less wonderful society to live in. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

