<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate-House conferees have adopted an amendment I sponsored to inform Congress and our citizens about potential violations of their privacy on Federal agency Web sites. The public has a right to know whether the Federal Government is respecting personal privacy. This amendment would require all Inspectors General to report to Congress within 60 days on how each department or agency collects and reviews personal information on its web site. The amendment is based on similar language offered by Congressman JAY INSLEE in the House that would have applied exclusively to the agencies funded by the Treasury-Postal Appropriations bill. Our final language was adopted by the Senate-House conferees in the bill providing appropriations for the Legislative Branch and Treasury-Postal Appropriations Act, and it was included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act. 
   The Internet has brought great benefits to our society, but understandably, the public is becoming more and more concerned about the way personal information is collected and handled on the Internet. The Federal Government should set an example for how personal privacy is handled in cyberspace. But unfortunately, concerns have been raised that some Federal agencies may be engaging in information-gathering practices that could only further deepen the public's distrust of government. We need to find out whether these concerns are real, and if they are, we need to decide what do about it. 
   Although the Clinton Administration established a privacy policy in June 1999 to guide the agencies, it is not clear whether the policy did much to protect privacy. In particular, the policy seemed to condone agencies' use of ``cookies''--small bits of software placed on web users' hard drives to collect personal information. The policy stated, ``In the course of operating a web site, certain information may be collected automatically in logs or by cookies.'' It also stated that ``some agencies may be able to collect a great deal of information,'' but went on to state that some agencies might make a policy decision to limit the information collected. Under the Paperwork Reduction Act, OMB is supposed to direct the agencies on privacy policy, but OMB's original privacy guidance seemed to give the agencies free rein to decide their own privacy policy for themselves. But OMB's original guidance did require the agencies to post privacy policies making clear whether they were collecting information. 
   Earlier this year, it was revealed that the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy had contracted with a private company to use cookies to track users of the ONDCP web site. ONDCP failed to warn the public about this practice in its privacy policy. 
   When the press reported ONDCP's practices, there was a swift and sharp public outcry. The White House's Office of Management and Budget quickly shifted into damaged control mode and issued a June 22 memorandum reversing its previous guidance and creating a presumption against the use of cookies on Federal web sites. However, more recently GAO reported to me that a number of agencies continued to use cookies, and it was not clear how these cookies were being used. This whole episode raises questions about the Federal Government's commitment to citizens' privacy. It also could undermine citizens' trust in government Web site. 
   I am not suggesting that cookies are inherently bad devices under all circumstances. Cookies can perform beneficial tasks on the Internet, such as counting the number of visitors to a site, assessing the popularity of certain Web pages, and briefly storing information already entered into to a form so that users don't have to enter the same information multiple times. At the same time, cookies can be used to identify specific computers and track a user's actions all over the Internet. The real questions I have are, ``What are cookies on Federal agency web sites being used for, and what are the information-gathering practices of the agencies?'' Right now, I don't know. And the American people don't know. 
   I have asked GAO to investigate which agencies are using cookies, how they are using them, and whether the practice violates the law and Administration policy. The amendment I have sponsored will provide further information from the Inspectors General on how agencies collect and use personal information. The language is based on a similar amendment that was offered to the House Treasury-Postal bill by Democratic Congressman JAY INSLEE. I want to thank Congressman INSLEE for working in a bipartisan way to protect citizens' personal privacy. 
   Mr. President, the American people have a right to know what information is being collected about them on Federal Web sites. This amendment would ensure that we know agencies' data collection practices so that we in Congress can make sure that privacy rights of citizens are not being violated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased that today the Senate passed regulatory accounting legislation in the Treasury-Postal title of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, section 624, also known as the Regulatory Right-to-Know Act. I want to thank Chairman TED STEVENS and Senator JOHN BREAUX for helping me pass this important legislation. We have worked together over the last several years to further some basic important goals: to promote the public's right to know about the costs and benefits of regulatory programs; to increase the accountability of government to the people it serves; and ultimately, to improve the quality of our regulatory programs. This legislation will help us assess what regulatory programs cost, what benefits we are getting in return, and what we need to do to improve agency performance. 
   By any measure, the burdens of Federal regulation are enormous. By some estimates, Federal rules and paperwork cost about $700 billion per year, or $7,000 for the average American household. I hear concerns about unnecessary regulatory burdens and red tape from people all across the country and from all walks of life--small business owners, governors, state legislators, local officials, farmers, corporate leaders, government reformers, school officials, and parents. 
   There is strong public support for sensible regulations that can help ensure cleaner water, quality products, safer workplaces, reliable economic markets, and the like. But there is substantial evidence that the current regulatory system is missing important opportunities to achieve these goals in a more cost-effective manner. The depth of this problem is not appreciated fully because the costs of regulation are not as apparent as other costs of government, such as taxes, and the benefits of regulation often are diffuse. The bottom line is that the American people deserve better results from  the vast resources and time spent on regulation. We've got to be smarter. 
   We often debate the costs and benefits of on-budget programs, but we are just breaking ground on creating a system to scrutinize Federal regulation. This legislation will provide better information to help us answer some important questions: How much do regulatory programs cost each year? Are we spending the right amount, particularly compared to on-budget spending and private initiatives? Are we setting sensible priorities among different regulatory programs? As the Office of Management and Budget stated in its first ``Report to Congress on the Costs and Benefits of Federal Regulations'':  
   [R]egulations (like other instruments of government policy) have enormous potential for both good and harm....The only way we know how to distinguish between the regulations that do good and those that cause harm is through careful assessment and evaluation of their benefits and costs. Such analysis can also often be used to redesign harmful regulations so they produce more good than harm and redesign good regulations so they produce even more net benefits.  
   This legislation continues the efforts of my precedessors. Senator BILL ROTH proposed a regulatory accounting provision in a broader reform measure that he worked on when he chaired the Governmental Affairs Committee in 1995. In 1996, when TED STEVENS became our chairman, he passed a one-time regulatory accounting amendment on the Omnibus Appropriations Act. After I became the chairman of Governmental Affairs, I supported Senator STEVENS' amendment when it passed again in 1997. In 1998, I sponsored an amendment to strengthen the Stevens provision with the support of Senators LOTT, BREAUX, SHELBY, and ROBB, as well as a bipartisan coalition in the House. This year, I worked with Senators STEVENS and BREAUX to make this legislation permanent. 
   This legislation continues the requirement that OMB shall report to Congress on the costs and benefits of regulatory programs, which began with the Stevens amendment. This legislation also adds to previous initiatives in several respects. First, it will finally make regulatory accounting a permanent statutory requirement. Regulatory accounting will become a regular exercise to help ensure that regulatory programs are cost-effective, sensible, and fair. The costs and benefits of regulation can become a regular part of the annual debate between the Congress and the executive branch on the Federal budget. Second, this legislation will require OMB to provide a more complete picture of the regulatory system, including the incremental costs and benefits of particular programs and regulations, as well as an analysis of regulatory impacts on State, local, and tribal government, small business, wages, and economic growth. Finally, this legislation will help ensure that OMB will provide better information as time goes on. Requirements for OMB guidelines and independent peer review should continually improve future regulatory accounting reports. 
   The government has an obligation to think carefully and be accountable for requirements that impose costs on people and limit their freedom. We should pull together to contribute to the success of responsible government programs that the public values, while enhancing the economic security and well-being of our families and communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I want to express my support for the Defense Authorization conference report and to thank the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator WARNER, and the Ranking Member, Senator LEVIN, for their assistance in ensuring that the conference report includes a provision to provide compensation to Department of Energy nuclear weapons workers whose health was harmed in the course of their service to our country. 
   Back in June, when the Senate first considered this measure, I offered an amendment along with Senator BINGAMAN, Senator VOINOVICH, Senator KENNEDY, Senator DEWINE and others to establish an occupational illness compensation program for these DOE workers who helped us win the Cold War. We offered the amendment after my Committee and others heard testimony and reviewed evidence that showed that, for decades, the federal government--and specifically the Department of Energy--failed to adequately protect its workers or to properly inform them of hazards associated with the important work they were performing. 
   In some cases, we simply did not know then what we know now about the links between some of the materials used to make weapons and certain illnesses. But in some cases, the government did know--and yet it covered up and kept people in the dark and failed to adequately protect them. We cannot go back and right that wrong. I wish we could. But we can face up to the mistakes that were made and begin to try to remedy them. That is what the Senate is about to do today. 
   This conference report will establish a compensation program for Department of Energy and contractor employees who were exposed to beryllium, silica, or radiation in the course of their employment, and who are now suffering from illnesses that can be linked to those exposures. The program will employ eligibility criteria based on expert judgement and sound science. 
   Under the compromise that was reached with the House, the President will be required to send to Congress by March 15th of next year a specific proposal detailing the level of compensation and benefits he believes should be paid. Congress will then have until July 31st to enact specific compensation levels. However, if Congress does not act by July 31st, a default benefit level of $150,000 plus medical benefits will take effect. Therefore, covered employees are guaranteed to receive at least that amount unless Congress enacts legislation stating otherwise by next July. 
   I believe this is a good compromise, Mr. President. It is not everything that the Senate sponsors wanted, but it is a start. It will get a program in place, allow the Administration to begin to identify those who are eligible, and guarantee a minimum benefit level without further action by Congress. Those are important victories for these Cold War veterans to whom we owe a debt of gratitude. Today we acknowledge that debt of gratitude, as well as a responsibility to remedy mistakes we made. 
   So again I want to thank Chairman WARNER for his support of this important provision. It would not have been  included without his efforts. I also want to thank Senators BINGAMAN, VOINOVICH, KENNEDY, DEWINE, MCCONNELL, and BUNNING for working with me on this issue, and I urge my colleagues to support the conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I make a point of order that the conferees included matters not in the jurisdiction of the Foreign Relations Committee. I am referring specifically to Aimee's law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I appeal the ruling of the Chair and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for the manner in which this has been handled and the opportunity this affords me to make the statement I am going to make today. 
   This is an objection to the conference report. There are many good things in this conference report. Unfortunately, Aimee's law is a part of it. I prefer to have the consideration of that independently, separate and apart from the conference report, but that is not to be. 
   Historically, of course, Aimee's law did pass as a part of a much larger bill, the juvenile justice bill, some time ago but was never signed into law. When I voiced my objection to it at that point, it was put into this conference report. I cannot let it go without raising my objection to something that I think has to do with an important principle. 
   It is very unfortunate, when we have tragic circumstances that happen in this country, such as young people being killed, all the violence and abuse that goes on in this country, we take that and use the emotionalism from it to make bad law. 
   I do not think anybody within the sound of my voice can accuse me of being soft on crime. I ran in 1994 on that issue. I ran again in 1996 on that issue. My position is clear. But my position is also clear that we are continuing the trend toward the centralization of decisionmaking in this country. In other words, if we do not like what a State is doing with regard to its criminal laws, we tend to find a way around it. 
   I do not like the idea that some States let prisoners out sooner than they should, but if we really do not like that and we really do not have any concerns about taking over the criminal jurisdiction in this country, things that have been under the purview of States for 200 years, why don't we just pass a Federal law using the commerce clause and state that it affects interstate commerce? 
   Perhaps the Supreme Court will allow it; maybe they will not. Why don't we just pass a Federal law on murder? Why don't we just have a Federal law that says anyone convicted of murder has to serve so much time and just get on with it? Even the people pushing things such as Aimee's law apparently recognize there is a principle that causes us problems, and that is, we are set up with a Federal system. 
   Every kid learns in school that we have a system of checks and balances, one branch against another, also Federal versus State and local law. It is a diffusion of power. It is time honored. It is in the Constitution. It is in the 10th amendment. Some things the States do and some things the Federal Government does. 
   If we do not believe in that anymore, if we are going to say every time there is some tragic circumstance, such as the drive-by shootings in 1992--we federalized the crime of drive-by shootings. In 1997, there was not one Federal prosecution for drive-by shootings, but yet it was in the headlines, and we could not help ourselves because we wanted to express our outrage at this crime that was being taken care of at the State level. 
   No one has ever accused these States with high-profile crimes of not jumping in and taking care of the situation, sometimes imposing the death penalty. You cannot do much more than that. Yet we feel the necessity to pass Federal laws that will ultimately create a Federal police force to do things we have left to the purview of the States for 200 years. That is a serious matter. 
   Nobody wants to vote against something called Aimee's law as a result of a tragedy of some young woman getting killed, for goodness' sake. Unfortunately, it happens all across this country all the time. But we have greater responsibilities when we take the oath of the office we hold. We are supposed to uphold the Constitution. Is the relationship between the State and Federal Government the one we studied in school, the one the courts tell us is still in effect, and, more fundamentally, do we need States anymore? States do not behave the way we want them to sometimes. States do not do what the Federal Government wants them to do. States do different things. 
   People in Tennessee might not look at something exactly the same way people in New York might look at it. People in New York might not look at something the same way people in California do. We have certain basic things on which we agree in our Federal Constitution, but the Founding Fathers gave us leeway to experiment. 
   Nobody I know of inside Washington, DC, has the answers to all these problems. We all have the same motivation: No one wants crime, no one wants these terrible tragedies, but we certainly do not have a monopoly on what to do about it. That is why we have States to experiment, to do different things. 
   Too often, under the glare of the headlines, we want one solution; we want one answer; we want one Federal answer with our name on the legislation so we ``did something'' about some tragic murder that happened in one of the States, which is prosecuted by the State and the person has long been sent to the penitentiary or death row. 
   We need to concentrate on the fact that we do not seem to think we need the States anymore. We had this fundamental disagreement at the founding of our country between Jefferson and Hamilton. Hamilton wanted a strong Federal Government, we all remember from our schooldays. Jefferson said: No, that is too much centralization of power; remember what happened to us earlier in our history. We need to diffuse that power, and the States need certain rights, so we need to balance that out. 
   One of my House colleagues said: The problem with Congress is we are Jeffersonians on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays and Hamiltonians on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. We give 
   lipservice to the proposition of limited Government, decentralization, giving more power back to the States, getting things out of Washington. We all run on that platform, and as soon as we get here, we can't wait to pass some sweeping Federal law that, in many cases, supersedes State law and the different ways States have chosen to handle a different problem. 
   We preempt State law. We pass Federal laws all the time. The Constitution allows us, under the supremacy clause, to do that. We will not even say when we are preempting. The courts have to decide that. We pass laws all the time, and the courts have to take a look at them later on to decide to what extent we are preempting State laws, and so we strike down those State laws. 
   We continue to criminalize State law. Five percent of the criminal prosecutions in this country are Federal. Yet last year there were over 1,000 pieces of legislation introduced in this Congress having to do with criminal law. It clogs the courts. Justice Rehnquist on a regular basis comes over here and pleads with us to stop this: You are not doing anything for law enforcement--he tells us--by trying to criminalize everything at the Federal level that is already covered at the State level; you are clogging the courts. 
   The Judicial Conference reports to us from time to time: You are clogging the courts with all this stuff that should not be in Federal court; the States are already taking care of that. Nobody is claiming they are not. So for the same offense, we have this array of State laws and this array of criminal laws, and the prosecutor can use that against a defendant however he might choose. It is not something that will enhance our system of justice but something that only enhances our own stature when we believe we are able to say we passed some tough criminal law. 
   We are doing more to harm criminal justice by doing this than we are doing to help it. 
   My favorite last year was the legislation that was considered in Congress to prohibit videos of animal abuse using stiletto heels. That is not a joke. Unfortunately, we have bills such as that introduced in Congress all the time. 
   We, from time to time, try to get around the commerce clause. We want to federalize things, such as guns in schools. Every State in the Union has a tough law they deal with in their own way as to what to do about a terrible problem--guns in schools. We get no  headlines out of that, so we had a Federal law to which the Supreme Court said: No, that does not affect interstate commerce. Then we just try to basically directly force States to enforce Federal laws and regulations that we make--background checks for guns, when judges should retire, Federal regulations. Finally, the Supreme Court said: No, we cannot do that. The 10th amendment prohibits us from doing that. So we have a steady array of our attempting to figure out ways in and around the Constitution in order to impose our will because ``we know best.'' 
   The latest, of course, now is the use of the spending clause. The courts have said, basically, if Congress sends the money, they have the right to attach strings. States blithely go along many times--not all the time, but many times. Oftentimes they accept that free Federal money and learn that they are getting 7 percent of their money for their problem and 75 percent of the regulations and redtape, the requirements that go along with it. 
   So this is the context in which we find ourselves when we consider Aimee's law. This is all just a little bit of history we have been dealing with to which not many people pay much attention. But it has to do with our basic constitutional structure. It has to do with the fundamental question in this country and, I think, our fundamental job; that is, What should the Federal Government do, or what should Government do, and at what level should Government do it? What is more fundamental than that? What is more important than that, as we hastily pass out and introduce these thousands of bills up here? If they sound good, do it--all the while eroding a basic constitutional principle that we all claim we believe in. 
   So this Aimee's law came about because of another tragic set of circumstances. We have seen them: The dragging death in Texas, the drive-by shooting case in 1992, the situation that produced Aimee's law. There is always something in the headlines of a tragic nature in criminal law. 
   Under Aimee's law, if Tennessee, for example, tries somebody--let's say for murder or rape--and convicts them, and that person serves their sentence under State law, under Tennessee law, and then they are released, and that person goes to Kentucky and commits another similar criminal offense, here is where the Federal Government comes into play. The Attorney General does this calculation and says, basically, that unless Tennessee's law under which this guy was convicted provides for the average term of imprisonment of all the States--you look at all the States and say: What is the average term of imprisonment for murder?--if Tennessee has a little less than the average of all the other States, and he goes to Kentucky and kills somebody else, then Tennessee has to pay Kentucky to apprehend the guy, to try the guy, and to incarcerate him for however long Kentucky wants to incarcerate 
   him. 
   That is basically what Aimee's law is. So this is moving the ball a little bit farther down the road for those who want Washington to decide all the criminal laws in this country. 
   Here we have a standard not that Congress has set. A lot of times we will say: We want everybody on the highways to be driving under the old .08 rule because we believe that ought to be the intoxication limit. We are going to withhold funds if you don't. It is a Federal standard. You can argue with it or you can agree with it. 
   But that is not what we have here. This is not a standard that Congress has had hearings on and has determined that Tennessee has to live up to. It is a standard that is based upon a calculation of what the average is among all the other States. 
   What if Tennessee looks at it a little differently? They ought to have the right to have a little more stringent laws or a little more lenient laws. They have the people of Tennessee to answer to. They have their own legislature. They have their own Governor. These are things that Tennessee has been deciding for 200 years. If they do not do what the average of other States do, when it is totally within their prerogative, should they be penalized? 
   There are several problems with this law. Some of them are constitutional because it has ex post facto concerns. I do not know, for example, in reading this law, whether it intends to apply to people who have already been sentenced or whether it applies to people who will be sentenced after this law comes into effect. 
   I wish one or any of the sponsors of this bill would come to the floor and tell us whether or not the intent of this law is to have this law apply to people who have already been sentenced maybe 5 years ago, maybe 10 years ago. If so, then what can a State do about that to avoid being penalized the way I just described? 
   Secondly, if a person is still serving time, and the State knows it is going to be penalized if he is released under the State law because other States might have a little more stringent law, what is going to happen next time that person comes up to the parole board? Are they going to be looking at it objectively? 
   Or, better still, the question is, to the sponsors of this legislation: What about people who have already been convicted and already served their time and have been out of jail now for 15, 20 years, and they go to Kentucky and kill somebody else? Does this apply to them? If that is the case, there are thousands and thousands and thousands of people in every State who have been convicted of crimes and are now out of jail and going to other States. Are we going to go back and calculate what the average law provided for incarceration for all of those people? I think it is silent. 
   If the intent is, in fact, to catch all of those people and, if they do something else, have this law apply, it has ex post facto ramifications with regard to the State. You are not doing anything to the individual, but you are forcing the State to either lose money or to try to extend the time these people stay in jail. 
   Can you imagine the litigation you are going to have with regard to these parole board hearings, when a person apparently looks as though he is eligible for parole, but the parole board has discretion, and they know if they release this person, he is going to be one of these people caught under the law? Can you imagine the litigation that is going to come about as a result? 
   If, on the other hand, it is not meant to be ex post facto, if, in fact, this law only applies to those who are convicted of crimes after the effective date of this law, then this law is going to be a nullity for the most part, I imagine, for many years, if people serve out terms in prison for horrendous crimes. 
   I would like to know, seriously, what the intention of the law is because it is not clear from the legislation itself. 
   As Fred Ansell has said:  
   If it applies retroactively, then the law could apply retroactively in different ways. It could mean that the law applies only if an offender is released from a State after 2002 after having served a less than average sentence, and then commits a crime. Or it could even mean that a person commits a crime as early as January 1, 2002, who was released from prison many years ago. 
   If the State is liable for what an already-released offender does in the future, and it accepts the Federal funds with these conditions, then the State has agreed to accept an unlimited future liability. It will be liable for the crimes that thousands of offenders might commit, as measured by the costs of apprehension, prosecution, and incarceration. This is not losing 5 percent of transportation funds for not enacting a 21-year-old drinking age, as was upheld in South Dakota v. Dole. This is where Federal ``pressure turns into compulsion.'' Moreover, the funds are not attached to a new program. The conditions are attached to funds that States have already satisfied conditions to receive now and are being used for law enforcement purposes now. Prisons under construction now might have to be abandoned if the States can no longer receive Federal funds for prisons unless they lengthen their sentences. Drug task forces, police assistance, prosecutorial assistance, all of which are currently functional, would be jeopardized, causing possible loss of life and limb to the citizenry, if States did not adopt Washington's sentencing policy in order to be sure to continue receiving the money. That is coercion, not inducement. 
   If the measure is retroactive only with respect to people who are released after 2002 for earlier committed crimes, the compulsion is not as great, but is still very strong, as the State still faces unlimited liability for any prisoners for future crimes committed over many years. To avoid that, a State seeking to retain Federal funding might essentially, in the Supreme Court's words, be ``induced ..... to engage in activities which would themselves be unconstitutional,'' such as lengthening the sentences of those who would otherwise be released, violating the ex post facto clause.   
   This wouldn't be a direct lengthening, but it would certainly have a potential effect with regard to, for example, parole board activities. So not only do you have an ex post facto problem, you have a spending loss problem. The Supreme Court has held that Congress can withhold money, unless the States engage in the behavior that Congress wants them to as they receive the money. They don't have to take the money, but if they do, they have to take the strings attached to it. The Supreme Court has basically upheld that. The Supreme Court also said the conditions that the Federal Government places on the use of the money must be unambiguous. The States must know what they have to do in order to get this money. 
   I submit that under the present case, Aimee's law, the States could not tell what they have to do in order to get this money because they are always dealing with a moving target. If you remember what I said a while ago, the name of the game is for the States to keep ratcheting up their incarceration time so they are within the national average. If they fall below that for their own good purposes, whatever the reasons and circumstances--they want to devote more money to prevention, or they want to devote more to rehabilitation instead of prisons, whatever their decisions might be--if they fall a 
   little below, they are going to lose their money. If they want to keep their money, how high are they supposed to raise their incarceration rates? Because by the time they change their law and raise their incarceration rates for these various offenses, other States, presumably, could be doing the same thing. You are always going toward a moving target. Each State is trying to outstrip each other, and each State, if it wants to keep its money and not have to pay for 40 or 50 years for somebody in another State--their incarceration expense--the safe thing for it to do is ratchet up the time. The safest thing for it to do would be to give life sentences without parole. 
   For some people, I think that is a good idea anyway. But is that something we ought to be forcing States to do with regard to any and all prisoners who come before them who are charged with this particular list of crimes? It is a list that this Congress has decided is the protected list--not anything else, just this protected list. If the States don't comply, then they lose their Federal money. So the States can't tell what they are supposed to do in order to keep their money. It is a very ambiguous, bad piece of legislation. 
   There are policy reasons in addition to what I have described and in addition to the constitutional problems. It pits one State against another. We are supposed to be doing things to unify this country--I thought. The Supreme Court and this Congress spends a lot of time and attention on implementing the commerce clause, designed to make sure there is the free flow of goods and people and information one State to another. 
   The Supreme Court strikes down laws that States might want which might say another State can't come in, or where they are trying to impose their will on another State outside their boundary. The commerce clause promotes a free flow of commerce, but under this particular law you are pitting one State against another, calculating to see if they can get some money from another State because they have a different criminal law than this other State had, and the Attorney General of the Federal Government is the referee and she keeps the books on all of that. That is a terrible idea. 
   Another policy reason is that Aimee's law defeats the very purpose that it is trying to carry out. Much of the money that will be withheld, if a State doesn't comply with this Federal mandate, will go for prisons. One of the reasons, presumably, why some States have to turn people out before we would like is because of a lack of prison space. They are getting this Federal money in order to help them with more prisons. 
   This is a very circular kind of situation the Federal Government is creating. We are cutting them off from money to do the very thing that is the reason we are cutting them off because they didn't do it in the first place. It makes no sense whatsoever. There is no additional inducement--is the next policy reason--under Aimee's law for the States--other than to keep their Federal money--for the States to comply with this Federal rule. 
   We are concerned about people getting out of jail and committing other crimes. We are all concerned about that. But seven out of eight crimes that are committed by people who have gotten out of jail happen in the States in which they were confined. So the State of Tennessee has every reason in the world to want to have laws that are reasonable for the protection of its own citizens and to keep people confined for a reasonable period of time for these crimes for the protection of their own citizens. Do they need any inducement because one out of eight might go somewhere else and commit a crime and that State might come back on them? 
   You have a situation here of particular crimes. Murder, as defined under Federal law, could mean anything from vehicular homicide on up. So, presumably, someone could be convicted of vehicular homicide in Tennessee and go to California and be convicted of first-degree murder; they are both murder under the meaning of this law. California could get Tennessee's Federal money to incarcerate this guy for the next however many years for murder when he was only convicted of vehicular homicide in Tennessee. 
   This has not been thought through. 
   The Federal Government simply should not be setting the standards for State crimes. They ought to set the standards for Federal crimes. States ought to have the flexibility to choose with their limited resources. 
   We tax the citizens of the States at a rate unprecedented since World War II. We put mandates on States with which we have been struggling, and we are trying to back off that a little bit. We have all of these regulations we put on the States. They have limited resources most years. They are doing a little better these days. They ought to have the right to decide for themselves--the people who elect their officials--how they use those resources. 
   If they want to spend more money for education, if they want to spend more money for health care, if in the criminal area they want to spend more money for prevention, if they want to spend more for rehabilitation, those are different things that different States are doing all across the country. We can see who has been successful and who has not been successful. 
   That is the reason we have States. That is the reason our Founding Fathers set up States. If we don't allow them to do that, what is the use of having them? Why do we have them? Why don't we just go ahead and pass a Federal law for everything and abrogate the States, if we don't need that kind of diversity and if we don't need that kind of experimentation? 
   The Federal Government would have States keep people--let's say the elderly--and have to make the tradeoff of using limited resources to keep people in jail who are, say, elderly and long past the time when you would think they would be dangerous to people, but keep them there on the off chance that they might get out and commit a crime in another State, and so forth. It doesn't make any sense. 
   This is simply an indirect attempt by the Federal Government--by us, by the Congress--to get States in a bidding war as to who can pass the most stringent laws in all of these areas. That is OK in and of itself. But it shouldn't be done because we are threatening them to do it. We think we have the answers to these problems, and we don't. 
   I served on the Judiciary Committee a while back, and I was chairman of the Juvenile Justice Subcommittee for a while. For anybody who deals in criminal law, the first thing they have to come away with, if they are being fair about it, is a sense of great humility. 
   There is so much we do not know about what causes crime--why young people commit crimes, what the best solution is, and so forth. My own view is that we should spend a lot more time, money, and research, and we should spend a lot more time, money, and effort in finding out what is going on in these various communities around the country with the various approaches communities and States have had and the various kinds of problems. It is very complex and very controversial. But that doesn't stop us. Last time I checked, we had 132 programs on juvenile crime alone at the  Federal level without a clue as to whether or not any of them are working or doing any good. My guess is that some of them are probably counterproductive. 
   A lot of people want to pass, as a part of a bill, to have youthful offenders sentenced as adults. In some cases, if States want to do that, that is fine with me. But we were going to impose a requirement that all States sentence youthful offenders as adults within certain categories until we found out that the way it plays out in some cases is they would get less 
   time as an adult than they would in a juvenile facility. 
   There is just an awful lot we don't know. 
   Why should we be forcing States to adhere to some kind of a national standard as to how long a person ought to serve for a list of crimes? If we really believe we ought to do that, why don't we just go ahead and do it directly? 
   We have seen the benefit of a system our Founding Fathers established over and over and over again. This is not just textbook stuff. It has to do with power, and the use of power, and who is going to use power, and how concentrated you want it. It has to do with innovation. It has to do with experimentation. It has to do with good competition among the States. We have seen welfare reform, education choice, competitive tax policies, and public-private partnerships all thrive at the State level. Good things are happening. 
   This law is another step away from all of that, another step toward Federal centralization and the monopolizing of criminal policy in this country. I could not let this go and could not let this pass without making that abundantly clear once again. 
   I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased that last night the House passed on suspension the ``Truth in Regulating Act,'' S. 1198, and that this legislation will now be sent to the President. S. 1198 will support Congressional oversight to ensure that important regulatory decisions are cost-effective, well-reasoned, and fair. 
   The foundation of the ``Truth in Regulating Act'' is the right of Congress and the people we serve to know about important regulatory decisions. Through the General Accounting Office, which serves as Congress' eyes and ears, this legislation will help us get access to the cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, federalism assessment, and other key information underlying any important regulatory proposal. So, in a real sense, this legislation not only gives people the right to know; it gives them the right to see--to see how the government works, or doesn't. GAO will be responsible for providing an evaluation of the analysis underlying a proposed regulation, which will enable us to communicate better with the agency up-front. It will help us to ensure that the proposed regulation is sensible and consistent with Congress' intent before the horse gets out of the barn. It will help improve the quality of important regulations. This will contribute to the success of programs that the public values and improve public confidence in the Federal Government, which is a real concern today. 
   Under the 3-year pilot project established by this legislation, a chairman or ranking member of a committee with legislative or general oversight jurisdiction, such as Governmental Affairs, may request the GAO to review a proposed economically significant rule and provide an independent evaluation of the agency regulatory analysis underlying the rule. The Comptroller General shall submit a report no later than 180 days after a committee request is received. A requester may ask for the report sooner when needed, as may be the case where there is a short comment period or hearing schedule. The Comptroller General's report shall include an evaluation of the benefits of the rule, the costs of the rule, alternative regulatory approaches, and any cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, and federalism assessment, as well as a summary of the results of the evaluation and the implications of those results for the rulemaking. 
   It is my hope that the ``Truth in Regulating Act'' will encourage Federal agencies to make better use of modern decisionmaking tools, such as cost-benefit analysis and risk assessment. Currently, these important tools often are viewed simply as options--options that aren't used as much or as well as they should be. Over the years, the Governmental Affairs Committee has reviewed and developed a voluminous record showing that our regulatory process is not working as well as intended and is missing important opportunities to achieve more cost-effective regulation. In April 1999, I chaired a hearing in which we heard testimony on the need for this proposal. The General Accounting Office has done important studies for Governmental Affairs and other committees showing that agency practices--in cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, federalism assessments, and in meeting transparency and disclosure requirements of laws and executive orders--need significant improvement. Many other authorities support these findings. All of us benefit when government performs well and meets the needs of the people it serves. 
   A lot of effort and collaboration went into this legislation, which I think is why the Senate and now the House could approve it with broad bipartisan  support. The Truth in Regulating Act is based on two initiatives--a bill originally sponsored by Senator RICHARD SHELBY with Senators LOTT and BOND, as well as a similar measure that I sponsored with Senators LINCOLN, VOINOVICH, KERREY, BREAUX, LANDRIEU, INHOFE, STEVENS, BENNETT, ROBB, HAGEL, and ROTH. I particularly appreciate that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle worked with me to pass this legislation. From the beginning, Senator BLANCHE LINCOLN made this a bipartisan initiative by joining me as cosponsor. Later, Senator JOSEPH LIEBERMAN, the Ranking Member of the Governmental Affairs Committee, worked with me to resolve his concerns before the Committee markup. This led the way for passage of this legislation through the Governmental Affairs Committee by voice vote and through the Senate by unanimous consent. 
   Congresswoman SUE KELLY first proposed a bill for the congressional review of regulations in the 105th Congress. After the Senate passed S. 1198 by unanimous consent in May of this year, Chairman DAN BURTON of the Government Reform Committee advanced the bill through the House. I want to thank Chairman BURTON for his leadership as well as SUE KELLY for her hard work that led to the final passage of the Truth in Regulating Act in the House. 
   I congratulate my colleagues in the House and Senate for pulling together to get the job done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I would like to take a moment to recognize the many achievements of former Tennessee Congressman Jim Quillen, and express my support for H.R. 4608 which would designate the new United States courthouse in Greeneville, as the ``James H. Quillen United States Courthouse.'' As some of my colleagues may know, Jim Quillen was Tennessee's longest serving Member of Congress and represented his constituents with distinction at both the state and federal level of government for 50 years. In 1963, Congressman Quillen was elected to the United States House of Representatives to represent the First Congressional District of Tennessee. After serving for thirty-four years, Congressman Quillen retired in January 1997. Congressman Quillen worked very hard for the citizens of Tennessee throughout his legislative career, and played a major role in securing funding to build the new courthouse in Greeneville. 
   Over the years, Congressman Quillen developed a reputation as a hard working legislator devoted to the concerns of his constituents. He served 17 terms in the House of Representatives, and in many ways lived the American dream. Born into poverty near Kingsport, he knew the hardships that many of his constituents faced, and promised that his door would always be open to hear their views. Congressman Quillen rarely accepted that something could not be done, and distinguished himself early on as a man who could get results. Congressman Quillen fought hard to establish a medical school at East Tennessee State University, which is now one of Tennessee's leading medical teaching institutions. He was also instrumental in expanding services at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Johnson City. 
   Congressman Quillen's tireless efforts in the House of Representatives benefitted the entire nation, and his leadership as Ranking Member on the House Committee on Rules helped pave the way for critical legislation. During his service on the House Committee on Rules, Congressman Quillen shaped the course of national policy by acting as a ``legislative gatekeeper'' and working with other Members to ensure that America's needs were addressed. Congressman Quillen never lost sight of the people he was fighting for, and we should all be proud of his many accomplishments. 
   It is with appreciation for Congressman Quillen's dedication to public service over the past fifty years that we approve H.R. 4608 to designate the new federal courthouse in Greeneville, which he helped to build, as the ``James H. Quillen United States Courthouse.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, September 14, 2000, at 11:00 a.m. for a hearing on ``The State of Foreign Language Capabilities in the Federal Government--Part I''. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, we have had a good debate over the last 2 or 3 days on the amendment Senator TORRICELLI and I have set forth. We have had a good discussion about the continued reports we have that the Chinese, Russians, and North Koreans continue to litter this world with weapons of mass destruction. And it endangers our country. 
   Bipartisan groups all across the board, just over the last 2 years, continue to remind us of this threat that is growing--it is not diminishing; it is growing. These same people tell us that the key suppliers are these three countries. 
   As late as 1996, we were reminded, once again, that the People's Republic of China was the worst proliferator of weapons of mass destruction in the entire world. We have had a good discussion on that. We have had a discussion about the fact that the leaders of the PRC have told us they are going to continue to do that, whether we like it or not, as long as we talk about protecting ourselves with a missile defense system and as long as we continue to befriend Taiwan. 
   We have sent three delegations of distinguished Americans and leaders, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, high-level people, to try to get them to relent and stand down from activities that endanger us, our children, and our grandchildren and make this world a more dangerous place. The leadership of the Chinese Government give us basically the back of their hand. They make no pretense that they are not going to act any differently in the future. 
   So the issue presented to us is: Are we, the United States of 
   America, the most powerful country in the world, going to do anything about it? That is the issue before us today. 
   We have set forth an amendment which basically tracks a lot of legislation that is already on the books in terms of cutting off military-related items and dual-use items to these governments if they are caught in this activity. But what we add is a more extensive reporting requirement so we have a better understanding and a more detailed understanding than the reports we receive now give us. 
   Under our amendment, it makes it a little bit more difficult for a President to game the system. The President, of course, has been quoted as saying that when the law requires him to impose sanctions on a country that he does not want to impose on them, sometimes he has to fudge the facts, and the law makes him do that. That kind of attitude, when they are caught sending M-11 missiles to Pakistan and they are caught sending the ability to enrich uranium to go into nuclear materials--they are caught doing all that, with no sanctions imposed--all of that has resulted in a more dangerous world, not a new relationship built upon trust and friendship and a strategic partnership--a more dangerous world. 
   So this is a good debate. My friends who oppose this amendment say all that may be true, we may be facing a situation where these nations, including China, are conducting themselves in a way that is detrimental to our interests; they may be making the world a more dangerous place, and especially the United States. If these rogue nations have the ability to hit countries with their missiles, containing biological weapons that are indescribable in their effect, I doubt if it is going to be Switzerland they choose to threaten with this type weapon. We are on the front line. We have a right to be concerned. 
   Apparently we are concerned, because we are now in the midst of a debate on a national missile defense system because of this very threat. Yet as we consider this new trading relationship with China, some of us are refusing to consider the fact that China is one of the primary reasons we have this threat because they are supplying these rogue nations with this weaponry. 
   There is no need to go through the list again and again and again and again, the public list--not to mention the classified list that cannot be disclosed--of proliferation activities and the charts we have shown about the missile technology they are sending and the missile components they are sending--our CIA reports indicate the missile activity with regard to Pakistan is increasing. Practically on the eve of the vote for this new strategic relationship, this new partnership that is going to enrich us, they are blatantly increasing their activity. 
   This is what we are facing. 
   It has been a good discussion. I disagree with my friends who think even though we have this facing us, we should put it aside for another day. We don't have a solution. We haven't done anything in the past. There is no reason to think we are going to do anything about it in the future. There is certainly no reason for the Chinese Government to think we are going to do anything about it in the future. 
   Wait for our friends and our allies to come together so we can have a multilateral approach. That sounds pretty good, but how long has it been since we have had a multilateral approach on anything? We don't have the ability in this country anymore to rally our allies as we once did, much less do something that might cost them some trade dollars. 
   We have a threat to this country. Clearly a multilateral approach would be preferable, but if we can't do that, as we obviously can't because we haven't, then we have to take action on our own. 
   So what do we do? Cut off agricultural products? Cut off trade across the board? Cut off automobiles and all that? No. If they are caught doing that, we cut off military equipment. We cut off dual-use items and others of that nature. We tell them their companies can't continue to use the New York Stock Exchange to raise billions of dollars when our Deutch Commission tells us that some of the worst proliferators, these companies that are doing this activity that are owned by the Chinese Government, are raising billions of dollars in our stock market. Does that make sense? Surely we have peace and prosperity now, but how long are we going to have it? How long can we be oblivious to what is going on around us? 
   We are having this debate. Reasonable people can disagree. Some say we should not get all this caught up in trade policy; We should keep our focus on trade; that trade is important; that we need to not complicate the trade issue. No one here has had a more consistent record than I in terms of free trade. I believe in it; whether it is NAFTA or fast track for President Clinton, I believe in it. Free trade can lead to open markets. Open markets can lead to more open societies. Eventually, in the long run, it can have a beneficial effect. I think it is going to be a much longer run in China than a lot of people think, but that is another story. I am for that. 
   This is different. This is not just a trade issue. In fact, it is not a trade issue at all. It should not be lumped in as a trade issue. I tried my best to get a separate vote on our amendment for 2 months. The supporters of PNTR apparently thought it would be easier to  defeat me if they forced me on to this PNTR bill. So that is where we are. So be it. 
   But this is a national security issue. Some would say this is one of those rare circumstances that we see every once in a while where we have legitimate free trade interests we want to promote and expand, even with those who are guilty of human rights violations, even with people with whom we strongly disagree, even with people who proliferate. 
   I intend to support PNTR. But what Senator TORRICELLI and I are saying is that along with that, not in opposition to that, or not as substitute for that, we must take into consideration the totality of our relationship with this country because they are doing things that are dangerous to this Nation. That is the primary obligation of this Nation. The preamble to our Constitution says the reason we even have a Government is to 
   look after matters such as this. 
   It is a good debate. We have had a good back and forth for the most part. We steer off course a little bit every once in a while. Unfortunate statements are made on all sides, but that happens when issues are important. We spend enough time around here on things that are not important. It is kind of rejuvenating when we are actually talking about something that is. I can't think of anything more important than this. 
   But it has taken on a new dimension. This issue has taken on a new dimension now because what we have seen is unprecedented lobbying and pressure efforts to defeat the Thompson-Torricelli amendment. I hope we don't flatter ourselves with that assessment. Lobbying and pressure are fairly common around here. People have a right to express their opinions. 
   But on this issue--not on any of these other issues, apparently, but on this issue--it has brought out those who fear that in some way some trade might be affected. Never mind that we have taken agriculture and American businesses off the board; they are not involved in this at all. Never mind that it is not a general goods sanction or anything such as that that we are narrowly focused on here. They just believe that in some way it might irritate the Chinese and they might retaliate in some way. We can't afford to irritate them. What we need to do is continue down the road of giving them WTO, give them veto power on our national defense system, turn a blind eye to their theft of our nuclear weapons, turn a blind eye to the proliferation activities, go over to Taiwan, adopt the three noes the Chinese want us to do and put our allies in Taiwan in a nervous state. We need to continue down that road because it has gotten us so far, it has done so much for us, that is the way we need to continue. 
   I picked up the New York Times this morning and read in an article by Eric Schmitt the lead paragraph:  
   Corporate leaders and several of President Clinton's cabinet officers intensified pressure today on wavering Senators .....  
   All you wavering Senators out there, I extend my condolences because apparently corporate leaders and the White House have stepped up the pressure. I don't know why. They have said all along they have the votes to beat Thompson-Torricelli. I don't know why all of the nervousness. I don't know why all of the intensity. The President now has sent out a letter that says, among his complaints, that our amendment is unfair. I assume unfair to the Chinese Government. That is such a remarkable statement, I don't think I even need to reply to it. 
   He also has a problem because he says they have joined the nonproliferation treaty. They have joined the Chemical Weapons Convention. The Chinese Government has joined the Biological Weapons Convention and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty. The only problem with that is they have routinely violated every treaty they have ever joined. And they won't join the ones that require safeguards so people go in and inspect these facilities. He complains that it applies a different standard for some countries. Well, yes, it does. Why is that? Because our intelligence agencies have identified certain countries as being key suppliers of weapons of mass destruction. Do we not have a right to identify them and single them out? Have they not earned that privilege? 
   I think the integrity of the Senate is at stake with this kind of pressure being brought to bear on a matter of national security by those who do not know anything about issues of national security. 
   Many of my colleagues here, of course, are experts in this area--some of them. But these folks who call themselves corporate leaders--and I don't think there are many of them, but they are very intense and are interested in trade, so more power to them--apparently now they have taken on additional portfolios. They have responded to a higher calling involving issues of war and peace. Now they advise us as to what we should or should not do with regard to these proliferation issues. 
   Why do I say that the integrity of the Senate is at stake, and that there are those out here who on this vote are trying to emasculate the process with the proposition that the House can act, and when they act and put in all of their favorite causes, justified as they are, including Radio Free Asia and things such as that, which they try to express a concern about and all that, and God bless them, that is fine; but it comes over to the Senate and we are supposed to rubberstamp whatever it is that is in that House bill. 
   Why is that? Even though this is such an overwhelmingly obvious boon to the United States, they are fearful that if we add our concerns about nuclear proliferation to that list of items, if it goes back to the House, even though they won by a 40-vote margin, at the last minute people going into an election will switch their votes. They will look at our bill and say: My goodness, it has a proliferation aspect to it and we can't vote for that. 
   Ridiculous. It would not be 24 hours before the deed would be done. That battle has been fought and won. We are going to pass PNTR. The real question is, Are we going to relent to the pressure being applied? 
   Exhibit B is the same New York Times article:  
   Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, warned of retribution against senators who support the Thompson-Torricelli measure.  
   In case anybody thinks they misheard what I said, let me read that again:  
   Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, warned of retribution against senators who support the Thompson-Torricelli measure.  
   You know, it would be comical if it were not so serious. One of my great disappointments in this debate is that there have been some business leaders who have been drawn into this who really have no dogs in this fight because their businesses are not even affected, but they have been told they are affected. They put their blinders on and they justly argue the benefits of trade. But they resent it, when we have been elected by the entire population--people who are not corporate leaders--when we address in addition to that matters of national security. 
   That is very disappointing. It should not be that way. I don't think some of these people really represent who they pretend to represent. I don't know of anybody who has a better record of voting with the Chamber of Commerce position than myself, whether it be taxes or regulation or any of those matters. Some of my friends in the Chamber of Commerce in Tennessee are here. I haven't talked to them yet. But I will bet you that to a person they will say: Thompson, we elected you to look out for these things. We are for trade and we want trade, but if you think that in addition to that we need to send a signal about people who are making this a more dangerous world 
   for our kids, you send that signal; we expect that of you. And if by some unforeseen circumstance we lose a dollar, so be it. 
   I think that is the way most people think. I think that is the way most businessmen and businesswomen think. I think that these little people who strut around up here making implied threats on campaign contributions and warning us of how we ought to vote for this, that, and the other, who don't know what they are talking about, need to be taken down a notch or two. I haven't been around here very long, but I have never seen anything such as that. He is warning of those who allow these folks to get tangled up in the politics of nuclear proliferation. That is  the small-mindedness we deal with here regarding this statement. 
   I feel sorry for the men and women out there in all the Chambers of Commerce around this country, to have this kind of representation in the New York Times and how people think that that represents their idea of the priorities that we have in this country. The lobby is intense. I assure you it is on one side. 
   You will not see the Halls littered with people out here saying ``keep our country safe.'' There are no lobbyists being paid to do that. No one makes any money off of our amendment. There are no tanks bought; there is nothing sold. All of the lobby, all of the pressure, all of the threats are on one side. So why it would be that the opponents of our amendment who claim they have the votes don't want to even give us a vote is something that perhaps ought to be contemplated. 
   Could it be that people really don't want to go on record because they realize they are casting their fate to the good graces of the leadership of the Chinese Government--and they have a consistent pattern of this activity and we catch them from time to time? It is going to continue and we are going to continue to catch them. Could it be that some people don't want to have cast a vote against a modest attempt for a better reporting requirement, a more transparent process, giving Congress an opportunity, in unusual circumstances, to have their say? 
   Again, there are two issues here now, it seems to me. One is on the merits and another is the integrity of the Senate and how we are going to handle this issue. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, one brief comment and then I am going to yield 5 minutes of my time to the Senator from Ohio. 
   I say in response to Senator GRAMM, surely I did not hear the basic proposition that I would not do something for him on something else and therefore he is not going to do something for me? Surely I misunderstood that part. 
   The only other response I would have is at least the Senator from Texas interjected a new way to address this proliferation we are seeing coming from China. His response is trade with them and one day we will magically wake up and they will be dismantling their armaments; they will be quitting selling weapons of mass destruction to these rogue nations, and they will be happy and friendly. All we have to do is have more and more and more trade, and that will solve the proliferation problem. 
   When that happens, Mr. President, I will present the tooth fairy on the floor of this body. 
   With that, I yield 5 minutes to my friend from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, did I not have additional time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, we also had a unanimous consent for an additional, I think, 5 minutes that was allotted to me. I think the Senator from Ohio should be given at least an additional 2 minutes, if that is the case. I certainly agree Senator BYRD should be given some time. There is no reason why we cannot work this out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-5-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I am not speaking either, and I will yield the remainder of my time after the Senator from Ohio is finished. I will yield the remainder of any time I have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-6-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the ``Privacy Commission Act.'' This legislation would establish a 17-member commission to examine the complex issue of personal privacy and to make recommendations to Congress as we consider how to map out privacy protections for the future. The Commission for the Comprehensive Study of Privacy Protection, whose members would include experts with a diversity of experiences, would look at the spectrum of privacy, from protecting citizens' health and financial information to ensuring their security on web sites. 
   As we all know, Americans are increasingly concerned that their personal information is not as secure as they once believed. A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that  loss of privacy was the greatest concern that Americans have as we enter this new century. In these times of rapidly changing technology, people are uncertain and fearful about who has access to their personal information and how that information is being used. It seems that as fast as new communications technologies appear, so do new capabilities for diverting information in unintended ways. 
   The increasing popularity of the Internet and e-mail as a primary means of communicating and disseminating information is one of the major reasons for the rising concerns about personal privacy. Consumer information such as drivers' license numbers, educational records and purchase records has always been available in some capacity. Before the advent of the Internet, however, the time and effort required to accumulate such information often was prohibitive. Now, the use of information-gathering devices on the Internet makes building consumer information databases relatively cost-free, and using and sharing them extremely profitable. 
   Some data privacy experts have shown how combining information from separate so-called ``anonymous'' public databases can not only identify those people included in the database but can reveal private information as well, including detailed medical and financial records. The increased sharing of information between medical practitioners, pharmaceutical companies, insurance entities and employers has made consumers more aware of the lack of confidentiality in the physician-patient relationship. Breakthroughs in genetic testing have made the potential consequences of such sharing even more serious. 
   The first federal privacy commission, which operated from 1975 to 1977, faced the same basic question that is being posed today: ``What is the correct balance between protecting personal privacy and allowing appropriate uses of information?'' But in the past 25 years, there have been enormous leaps in technology. Today, a few keystrokes on a computer hooked up to the Internet can produce a quantity of information that was unimaginable in 1975. This freedom of information can be beneficial, by helping people to get loans quickly or by personalizing consumer services. But the same information in the hands of bad actors can cause harm, resulting in nightmarish situations such as identity theft. It is crucial that we act soon to protect the American people from crimes like these, without overregulating so much that we stunt the growth of our booming economy. 
   The Privacy Commission is the key to finding the balance between protecting the privacy of individuals and permitting specific and appropriate uses of personal information for beneficial purposes. The Commission would be directed to study a wide variety of issues relating to personal privacy, including the monitoring, collection, distribution and use of personal information by government and private entities; current legislative and self-regulatory efforts to respond to privacy problems; and the practices and policies of employers with respect to the personal financial and health information of their employees. In the course of its examination of these issues, the Commission would also be required to hold at least 3 field hearings around the country and to set up a website to facilitate public participation and public comment. By December 31, 2001, the Commission would submit a report to Congress on its findings, including any recommendations for legislation to reform or augment current laws. 
   There is great deal of interest in legislating on privacy. Everyone is trying to establish the appropriate level of privacy protection that the American people want and need. But there are many different answers being proposed. On the state level, approximately 7000 bills about privacy were introduced just last year. Here in Congress, scores of proposals have been introduced on a wide range of privacy issues, and we undoubtedly will consider many of these proposals in the next Congress. The Privacy Commission Act will help us to understand the complex issue of privacy and to map responsible protections, without delaying action where consensus is reached. The final report of the Privacy Commission would be available by the second session of the new Congress. In the meanwhile, if consensus can be reached on any substantive privacy legislation, nothing in the Privacy Commission Act would impede movement on those bills. To the contrary, the bill contains a provision specifying that it is not intended to delay any other privacy legislation. 
   I would like to thank my colleagues in the House, particularly Congressmen ASA HUTCHINSON and JIM MORAN, who sponsored H.R. 4049. They and their staffs have worked diligently on the Privacy Commission Act. They held three days of hearings on this legislation, and the House Government Reform Committee passed the Hutchinson-Moran bill by voice vote on June 29th. I also want to thank my cosponsors, particularly Senators KOHL and TORRICELLI, who have worked on a privacy commission bill for some time, as well as Senators ABRAHAM, LINCOLN, VOINOVICH, ROTH, GREGG, HUTCHINSON, COLLINS, DEWINE, LEVIN and LANDRIEU. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I was wondering if I can take some time, if the distinguished chairman has finished. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, it depends on what his plans are. If I can have 20 minutes, it will be greatly appreciated. I understand we have 3 hours on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Chair, and I thank Senator ROTH for his generosity. 
   Mr. President, I want to speak for a moment to a couple of things that have come up in the debate today with regard to the amendment on China proliferation offered by myself and Senator TORRICELLI. Of course, once again, our reason for offering this amendment is because we have been told time and time again by various bipartisan commissions that we are facing an imminent threat; that China, Russia, and North Korea--but historically as of 1996, for example, China--have led the way in selling weapons of mass destruction to rogue nations. We are told that these rogue nations pose a threat to our country. 
   The question now is whether or not we intend to do anything about it. Some say diplomacy should work. Perhaps it should. However, we see that diplomacy has not worked. The problem is getting worse. Our intelligence estimates, which have been made public, have shown that the problem is getting worse with regard to missile technology, especially with Pakistan, instead of getting better. 
   A couple of my colleagues, speaking on behalf of PNTR, have pointed out that the Chinese have signed several nonproliferation-type agreements that should give us some cause for optimism, and that is true. The problem is that they have repeatedly violated every agreement they have ever made. I emphasize that. At this time, when we are getting ready to engage in a new trading relationship, hoping for the best, we should acknowledge that China has violated every understanding, agreement, and treaty they have ever made. 
   My concern is proliferation, although human rights is very 
   important and religious freedom is very important. There is only one activity of the Chinese Government that poses a mortal threat to this Nation, and that is the one of proliferation, spreading weapons of mass destruction around the globe. How in the world can we claim we need a missile defense system because of the threat of rogue nations and the nuclear missiles they are developing that will have the capability of hitting us, when we will not address the folks such as the Chinese who are supplying these rogue nations? It is all carrot and no stick. They cannot take us seriously when we express concern about proliferation. 
   Let's talk about the proliferation agreements they have signed. In March of 1992, China ratified the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. However, in 1994, China sold to Pakistan 5,000 unsafeguarded ring magnets which can be used in gas centrifuges to enrich uranium. 
   In 1995, China built in Iran a separation system for enriching uranium. 
   As we know, China has outfitted Pakistan from soup to nuts. Under our watchful eye, they have made it so that Pakistan can now build their own missiles. We have watched them do this over the last few years in total violation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which some of my colleagues so optimistically claim they signed; therefore, they must be abiding by it. They are not. 
   In May of 1996, China reaffirmed its commitment to nuclear nonproliferation. Again, however, in 1996, China sold a special industrial furnace and high-tech diagnostic equipment to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities in Pakistan. 
   In 1997, China was the principal supplier of Pakistan's nuclear weapons program. 
   In 1997, China transferred to Iran a uranium conversion facility blueprint. 
   In 1997, China promised not to begin a new nuclear cooperation agreement with Iran after completing a small nuclear reactor and a factory for building nuclear fuel rod encasements. 
   In 2000, U.S. intelligence reports state that ongoing contact between PRC entities and Pakistan's nuclear weapons program cannot be ruled out. 
   China is a member of the Zangger Committee which considers procedures for the export of nuclear material and equipment under the NPT but is the only major nuclear supplier of the 35-nation nuclear suppliers group whose nations agreed to guidelines covering exports for peaceful purposes to any non-nuclear weapon state and requires full-scope safeguards. The Chinese Government has agreed to a list of nonproliferation treaties and agreements and then violated them, but with regard to those treaties that require safeguards, where someone can come in and inspect whether or not they are doing it, they will not agree to those, and that has been the history. 
   Are we so eager for trade that we accept this kind of behavior as in some way acceptable to us? 
   In February of 1992, China pledged to abide by the missile technology control regime and renewed this commitment in 1994. However, I have an entire list which I will not read, but in 1993 they transferred M-11 short-range missile equipment to Pakistan. In 1996, China helped Pakistan build an M-11 missile factory. 
   In 1997, telemetry equipment to Iran. 
   In 1999, China supplied specialty steel, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and precision-grinding machinery to North Korea; a wind tunnel to Libya--on and on and on--the roughest nations on the face of the Earth in terms of their proliferation and dangerous activities. China consistently supplies them in violation of their own agreement. 
   In 1997, China ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention; however, they have violated it on numerous occasions. 
   In 1997, the PRC transferred chemical weapons technology and equipment to Iran. 
   In 1998, the PRC entities sold 500 tons of phosphorus materials, which is controlled by the Australia Group, to Iran--and on and on and on and on. 
   We cannot turn a blind eye to this. We can trade even with people with whom we have strong disagreements. We can trade with China. But can we really address a trade issue with them and envelop them into a new understanding with trade, from which we believe we will get some economic benefit, without telling them that they cannot continue to make this world a dangerous place? And it is the United States of America that is going to be most vulnerable to this; Belgium and France, with all due respect, are not going to be the primary targets of these rogue nations if and when they get the ability to hit foreign nations. It is going to be the blackmail that they will try against us. 
   What if Saddam Hussein had this capability in the gulf war? Do we really think it would have turned out the way it did? How much activity will breach the tolerance level of the Senate when it comes to the Chinese? We do not have to jeopardize trade with China. We must have some measures to get their attention. 
   What our bill does, when all is said and done, is provide a report on those proliferation activities and provide the President the opportunity to do something about it. It makes it a little more difficult for him to turn a blind eye to these proliferation activities because if he does not do something about it, he has to tell Congress why. 
   It also provides that if Congress feels strongly enough about it--if enough  people sign up--we can actually take a vote on the President's decision. 
   That is what it boils down to. We have had people come to this floor and say: If we pass this amendment, these unilateral mandatory sanctions, the sky will absolutely fall. It will mess up everything. It will make the Chinese mad. We might lose trade. 
   No. 1, even if all those things happened, I ask, what is the primary obligation of this body? To protect ourselves from these problems and trying to address them or not? But these things are not going to happen because we already have laws on the books that are unilateral sanctions that this body has voted for oftentimes without a dissenting vote, time and time again, to impose sanctions on various entities for various reasons. Perhaps we have done too much in some respects. Perhaps we have not done enough in others. But there are numerous laws on the books. 
   What our amendment does is provide for a more extensive report and provide for congressional input, as I have said. But in terms of sanctions, it is right along the lines of what we have done on numerous occasions. It is only when it comes to China, it is only when we identify China that everyone comes rushing to the floor saying: My goodness, we can't do this; 
   Our allies will be against us; China will be against us; It will upset Russia; It will be a bad example to the world, and all of that. It is only when someone thinks that we are complicating the China trade deal that all of these concerns come to the fore. We can do better than that. 
   People say we need hearings, that no committee of jurisdiction has had hearings. My committee, the committee I chair, is a committee of jurisdiction. We have had 30 hearings on the issue of proliferation. There have been 60-some-odd hearings on the issue of proliferation. 
   Some people say: THOMPSON's committee has had several drafts. They keep coming up with different drafts. That is true because we keep trying to satisfy the critics who do not want to do anything to irritate the Chinese Government. 
   They have said: You identified China specifically. We broadened it to include Russia and North Korea because they are also major suppliers. 
   They say: You do not give the President enough discretion. Now we give him almost total discretion. He has to make a determination before anything happens. 
   They say: You are going to hurt farmers or small businessmen. We specifically eliminated any potential involvement of farmers or small businesses. 
   Some people say: Farmers still don't like it because if we are mean to the Chinese Government, they might retaliate, and it might be against farmers. Not my farmers in Tennessee. I think if my farmers in Tennessee had a choice between us responding responsibly to this irresponsible behavior on the part of the Chinese Government and risking their getting mad, and in some way affecting them in some export that they might have, they would be willing to take that chance. The farmers are not involved in this. 
   Some said that any Member of Congress could force a vote to override the President. So we made it so it had to be 20 Members of Congress. 
   Yes, there have been several reiterations of this bill because we have been trying to answer the reasonable complaints. 
   What it boils down to is that not all of these various complaints are the reason for the opposition. My opinion is that the root of it is a genuine desire not to irritate the Chinese Government at a time we are trying to enter into a new trading relationship with them. 
   Generally speaking, I think that is a laudatory idea. I cannot complain about that as a general rule. But these are not times to apply the general rules. These are extraordinary circumstances. We have been getting reports on what they have been doing for years now and have not done anything about it. 
   Now we are about to enter into a new trade relationship which they want desperately. They have a favorable trade balance with this Nation of $69 billion. They are not going to turn their back on that. They want this. 
   If we do not have the wherewithal to raise the issue of the fact that they are making this a more dangerous world and threatening our country now, when are we going to do it? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-5-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I urge adoption of the amendment, Mr. President. I thank the Chair and my chairman, Senator ROTH, for their indulgence. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-6-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask unanimous consent I may have 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-7-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Kansas for the level of his debate. This is a good discussion. This is what we ought to be doing. This is what we should have been doing for some time now. These are legitimate problems and legitimate disagreements. 
   But let me disagree with my good friend on a couple of very important points. The trade we talk about here, the only trade that would be stopped by my amendment, is trade that is already prohibited in other legislation. It is trade that is basically on the munitions list; that is, armaments and things of that nature, munitions and dual-use items. Under the Export Administration Act, if these entities are caught proliferating, it is already required that we stop that. We are certainly not arguing, are we, that the President should not enforce that law? It is already on the books. The worst that can be said about ours is that it is duplicative. 
   I have had a lot worse things said about things that I have done than that I have been duplicative. I hardly think that is a major problem, in light of the fact there are additional items in our bill which help which are not on the books now. 
   But in terms of the trade that we would be losing, if that is the case, we would be losing it now if the President was applying the law the way he is supposed to apply the law. It is already on the books. Suppose it was not. Do we really want to be sending munitions list items and dual-use items to companies we find are proliferating? Can't we stand to lose that trade? We are not talking about Kansas farmers. We are not talking about Tennessee farmers. We are talking about those folks in this country--if you are in the business that would be affected by the munitions or the dual-use items that have either 
   domestic or military capability, you would be affected if the President decided he wanted to go that route. That is the limitation. I think it is over $1 billion a year in exports that we have in a $9 trillion economy. Can't we afford that in light of this threat? Can't we afford that? 
   My friends on the other side say this is a killer amendment. Let's analyze that for a minute. I submit to you that is not the case. It is being used, but it is not the case. 
   The House of Representatives passed PNTR by about a 40-vote margin--more than anybody thought. All of us in this body have had a chance to express ourselves, and the votes are overwhelming here. The support and the leadership in the House is solid. You cannot stir with a stick the lobbyists in support of it around this town. The fight is over. We are going to have PNTR. The idea that we would send it back to the House with a proliferation amendment on it and people will say, ``My goodness, we are trying to do something about Chinese proliferation. We can't have that. I voted for it before but I am going to change my vote now and vote against it,'' is ludicrous. 
   People say: Who is going to change their vote? With that 40-vote margin, who is going to change? Is it going to be the Republicans because we added a proliferation amendment? Of course not. Is it going to be the Democrats because the labor unions are pressuring them? When the Democrats are so close to taking back control of the House? When the labor unions have already lost this PNTR battle, and they know it, they are going to put their members in that kind of position so they can go into the election with a vote for it and a vote against? 
   With all due respect, that is not going to happen. If we add a proliferation amendment and do what we should have been doing a long time ago--and say we are just going to ask for a report, and if we catch you, we are going to give our President the clear option to do something about it or, if he does not, he is going to have to tell us why--if it went back to the House, it would be ratified within 24 hours and that would be the end of it.  
   We are not going to know until it happens. If we are so intent on avoiding what I consider to be a minute risk that we will turn a blind eye to what is going on because we are so intent on this trade agreement that we cannot even do the minimal of requiring an additional report, requiring some additional congressional involvement and making it a little tougher for the President to game the system--the way, quite frankly, this President has--then we have bigger troubles than I think we have. 
   How can this help? My friends ask: How can this help? I will ask a question. Why is the PRC so against this amendment? Is it because it is ineffective or duplicative? They are against this amendment because they don't want the additional attention on their activities. They don't want the President to have it highlighted that he has this discretion and has to give a reason why he does not take action. They think it will be effective. I think it will be effective. I think it will have an effect on them where they will think at least one more time before they do something that they know is going to be another major debate on this floor. That is my belief. 
   My friend makes a good point with regard to the issue of sanctions in general. That has been the source of a great debate for a long time. He makes some good points. But I 
   reiterate: Sanctions are not sanctions are not sanctions. There are different kinds of sanctions. We can't lump all sanctions in one group. There are sanctions that differ in terms of the targeted country. There are sanctions that differ in terms of the activity that is going to be addressed. There are sanctions that are different in terms of the commodities or goods on which you are placing some limitation. We have had sanctions that have dealt with agriculture, as he points out. They have dealt with goods in general in times past. What we are dealing with here basically is munitions and dual-use items. Should we not stop that, if we catch these companies proliferating weapons of mass destruction? 
   Over the years when the U.S. has been serious about implementing measures to signal our displeasure with a foreign government's actions, these measures have had an effect. For example, U.S. economic pressure in the late 1980s and early 1990 led to China's accession to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1992. In June of 1991, the Bush administration applied sanctions against the PRC for missile technology transfers to Pakistan. 
   They have been doing this for a long time, folks. These measures led to China's commitment 5 months later to abide by the Missile Technology Control Regime. They systematically violate it, but perhaps, hopefully, not as much as if they had not even agreed to abide by it. 
   In August of 1993, the Clinton administration imposed sanctions on the PRC for the sale of M-11 missile equipment to Pakistan in violation of the Missile Technology Control Regime. Over a year later, Beijing backed down by agreeing not to export ground-to-ground missiles if sanctions were lifted. They entered into this agreement in order to get sanctions lifted. I wonder why they wanted those sanctions lifted--because they were having no effect? And that occurred in 1994. 
   Some of these examples were provided to me by Sandy Berger, the National Security Adviser, to illustrate how unilateral sanctions and/or the threat of sanctions have been effective when dealing with the PRC in the past. 
   The President's security adviser opposes my amendment because he doesn't want any complications to PNTR. We respectfully disagree with that. We certainly disagree over the extent to which they have attempted to do something about China's activities, but they have, on occasion, taken some action. He cites these particular instances when they have taken action, and he acknowledged they had some effect. 
   So we cannot have it both ways. We cannot lump all this together and say sanctions are bad, period, forever, regardless. We can't say, ``Let's not tie the President's hands,'' when all of this is discretionary. He has to make a determination. I do not know how many times I have to repeat this. We are not tying the President's hands. He can do it if he wants to and he doesn't have to do it if he doesn't want to. That is not tying the President's hands. We are not talking about agriculture or any other general goods. We are talking about dual-use items. 
   So we have a legitimate debate here. Some think we should go ahead and pass PNTR and have no amendment strategy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-8-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-9-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Legitimate debate. Some think we ought to pass this: No complications, no amendments, no muss, no fuss; worry about this later. 
   If not now, when? I thank the Chair and relinquish the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. First, I thank the majority leader and agree with him completely on the proposition that we will have a vote on this issue. It might not be the exact wording of this bill, but we will have a vote on this issue. 
   We introduced this bill last May because, as chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, the committee that has jurisdiction on proliferation matters under the statute, we receive briefings, as a few committees do, on proliferation developments, for example. In that position, we have had numerous hearings and have been told there is a longstanding and growing threat because of proliferation of China, primarily, and Russia and North Korea. 
   We haven't had a lot of attention with regard to that, or a whole lot of interest, until we started discussing it in the context of trade. Trade interests everybody because there is money to be made. That is understandable. I am all for it. 
   We introduced this bill because we were told by our intelligence people that there was a threat to this country. I can't think of anything more serious that we could possibly be dealing with than a nuclear, biological, or chemical threat, and the fact that rogue nations are rapidly developing the capability to hit this country with all three of those. Let that sink in for a little bit. 
   All the time that we spend around here in budget and other votes that take up most of our time, trying to divide up the money, we are being told by our experts--whether it is the Rumsfeld Commission, the Deutch Commission, the Cox Commission, or the biennial intelligence assessment--there is a present danger and it is growing, and the Chinese are actually 
   increasing their activities as far as missiles are concerned. 
   That is why we introduced the bill. People raise various objections. Last night some were saying the report that we want to have produced is too extensive and we might catch up some innocent Chinese companies that might later prove to be innocent when we accuse them of proliferating. Frankly, I am willing to take that risk. 
   We tried to get a separate vote. We said: Let's not put it on PNTR. Our amendment shouldn't be considered a trade measure. The bipartisan bill shouldn't be considered a trade bill. It is a proliferation bill. So let's discuss it in the context of our overall relationship with China, but don't force us to put it on the China trade bill. 
   No, you wouldn't have that. We couldn't have that. You wouldn't give me a separate vote on that because it might complicate things. 
   So I said OK, if you don't do that, I will put it on the bill. So I put it on bill. Senator TORRICELLI and I did. And now it is an amendment to the China trade bill. 
   They said: My goodness, we wish you wouldn't have done that. We wish it was a freestanding bill now that we see you are serious, but we can't possibly vote on it as an amendment to the trade bill because it might complicate the trade bill. 
   So we have gone through all of that. 
   Frankly, we were told from the minority side that our Democratic colleagues were the ones who sunk--a few over there were the ones who had a problem with this. We have discussed this since May and there have been some changes. Anybody who wanted to discuss this bill--and there were staffers from many, many Senators, Democrats and Republicans, who have worked with Senator TORRICELLI and my staff--anyone who wanted some input certainly had the opportunity to do that for months. There have been changes because we have been trying to accommodate the concerns: It is too tough; we didn't give the President enough discretion. We made changes because of that. We have been discussing this since May, with all of the foot-dragging that we have seen along the way. 
   We had a good debate last night, and we had a good debate today. We debated over sanctions and whether or not they were effective--things that we ought to be debating. Good things, good substance, important subjects that we ought to be debating, and raising the issue now. When we are obviously getting ready to engage in this new trade relationship with China, what better time to address the fact that they are the world's worst in selling weapons of mass destruction to these rogue nations. 
   We claim we need a national defense system because of the threat of these rogue nations. How can we talk to the Chinese Government without addressing it? That is what the debate has been about. It has been good. 
   Now it is time for a vote. I have been around here a few years. I don't remember another occasion where a colleague has objected to a vote under these circumstances. My Democratic colleagues have raised no objection, but my two good friends on this side of the aisle raise objections. I am sad to say that it appears the real objection all comes down to one of jurisdiction. My friend from Wyoming apparently believes this should be a part of his bill if it is going to be anything, the Export Administration Act; and that this should be presumably under the purview of the Banking Committee if it is going to be considered. He will have the opportunity to correct me if I am wrong, but I thought that is what I heard. 
   I think that is a sad set of circumstances, if after all of that we finally flush out the real reasons for the objection to even having a vote. Oppose it if you will, but the objection to even having a vote is because somebody got somebody else's jurisdiction. 
   All my colleagues should know that according to the Parliamentarian, this bill, if it were referred to committee, would be referred to the Foreign Relations Committee. 
   Let's look at some of the hearings we have had in the Governmental Affairs  Committee. The Banking Committee has some jurisdiction with regard to export administration. The Governmental Affairs Committee has some jurisdiction with regard to proliferation. I can't believe we are even talking about this, but here goes. It is like kids squabbling in the back of the schoolbus. 
   If the issue is that nobody has paid any attention to this and nobody has had any hearings, this committee of jurisdiction, the Governmental Affairs Committee, in May of 2000, had a full committee hearing on export control implementation issues with respect to high-performance computers. 
   In April of 2000: Full committee hearing on the Wassenaar Arrangement and the future of the multilateral export controls; 
   February of 2000: Subcommittee on Internet Security, Proliferation and Federal Services hearing on National Intelligence Estimate on the Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States; 
   June of 1999: Full committee hearing on Interagency Inspector General's Report on the Export-Control Process for Dual-Use and Munitions List Commodities; 
   June of 1999: Full committee hearing on Dual-Use and Munitions List Export Control Processes and Implementation at the Department of Energy; 
   May of 1999: Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services--that is Senator COCHRAN's subcommittee. He had a hearing on the Report of the House Select Committee on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns with the People's Republic of China. 
   Senator COCHRAN's subcommittee, of course, has been in this area, the proliferation area, the missile area, the whole problem with China and Russia in particular, the problem with the rogue nations--Senator COCHRAN has been dealing with this for years and has put out published reports. The last one was within the last couple of weeks, for anybody who is interested. 
   September of 1998: Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services hearing on GAO Reports on High Performance Computers; 
   June of 1998: Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services hearing on the Adequacy of Commerce Department Satellite Export Controls; 
   March of 1998: Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services hearing on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and Nuclear Proliferation; 
   October of 1997: Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services hearing on North Korean Missile Proliferation--again Senator COCHRAN's subcommittee. Once again, in September of 1997, his Subcommittee on International Security Proliferation and Federal Services had a hearing on Missile Proliferation in the Information Age. 
   In June of 1997, his subcommittee had a hearing on Proliferation and U.S. Export Controls. 
   In May of 1997, his subcommittee had a hearing on National Missile Defense and the ABM Treaty. Senator COCHRAN, of course, is chairman of this subcommittee. He is the leader on the national missile defense issue and has been for some time. Of course, again, it is directly relevant because the reason we are claiming we need a national missile defense is the very issue our amendment brings up. 
   April of 1997: Subcommittee on International Security--again, Senator COCHRAN's subcommittee--hearing on Chinese Proliferation--Part II; 
   April of 1997: His subcommittee, Chinese Proliferation hearing, Part I. 
   So, for the uninformed, we have various committees here with various jurisdictions. Sometimes jurisdiction overlaps, where more than one committee has jurisdiction in the subject area. This is one of those cases. 
   Over the past 4 years, the Governmental Affairs Committee alone has held 15 hearings on proliferation; over 30 hearings have been held by my committee, the Armed Services Committee, 
   and in the Foreign Relations Committee. Furthermore, this legislation has the full support of the chairman of jurisdiction, Senator HELMS, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. The issue of proliferation, of course, has had a full, full consideration for some time now. 
   So we will have an opportunity to discuss this further, including further tonight. I don't know if anyone wants to speak to this. I will give them the opportunity, give my colleague from Wyoming an opportunity to further address it. But it is a sad situation, when our country faces this kind of threat, that we cannot even get a vote on an amendment that would address that threat. 
   Vote it down if you must. Oppose it if you will. But the very idea of us not having a vote because it has not been considered enough by the right committee or that it is more properly a part of somebody else's bill instead of our bill? Surely it has not come to that. 
   I will yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, first, I am sorry if I drew the wrong conclusion this might be jurisdictional. When the Senator mentioned this would be a better part of the Export Administration Act legislation, which happens to be his legislation, and it was not referred to the right committee, I just thought that might be jurisdictional. That is where I got that idea. If he resents that implication, I am sorry, but that is the source of that idea. 
   I think back to a time not too long ago when the Senator from Wyoming and the Senator from Texas worked long and hard on a bill called the Export Administration Act. Several of us who are committee chairmen had problems with that because of some of the same things we are talking about. 
   In my view, and I think my colleagues' view, it liberalized our export rules at a time when we should have been tightening them up. The chairman of the Armed Services Committee, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and myself as chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, looked at this and said that it had some major problems. The statement was made by the sponsors of the bill that they would not bring it up, as I recall, without our signing off on it, and we never signed off on it. 
   If the hangup here is the fact my colleagues have not gotten a vote on their Export Administration Act, I suggest they offer it as an amendment to my amendment. Let's have a second-degree amendment. If that is the problem, then let's have a vote on both of them. 
   Let's be frank with each other. The Senator's opposition 
   is the same opposition and arguments in many respects that we have heard from four other amendments that have been considered. The only difference is we have had votes on those four other amendments. The Senator was not over here complaining that we had not had sufficient process, I guess, with regard to the Wellstone amendment or the Byrd amendment or the Hollings amendment or the Helms amendment. The process was OK with regard to those, but now we have an amendment, the only amendment that deals with a direct threat to this Nation, and we are talking about process. 
   One of the big complaints of the opponents of the Thompson-Torricelli amendment has been that we have changed it so much they hardly know what is going on here anymore. The reason we changed it is we kept responding to the complaints. Staffs met numerous times. Everybody knew these meetings were going on. It was not an open forum for somebody to come down and lay down a bunch of requirements if they did not get what they wanted the first day, leave, and not show up again. It was an open, rolling forum with various staff members. 
   I sat in on an occasion or two. It was very open since May that we were talking about trying to come together because we all appreciate the proliferation problem and we need to do something. 
   While we are talking about trade with China, we ought to be talking with them also about the fact they are endangering this country by arming these rogue nations, and we tried to work it out. Some Members objected. We had mandatory sanctions and they said we did not give the President enough discretion. We gave him more discretion. Some people claimed we are singling out the Chinese; it will make them angry; and it will be counterproductive. We broadened it. Some people claimed we were giving Congress too much authority; that any Member of Congress could come in and have a vote to override a Presidential decision in this regard, so we raised the requirement to 20 Members. There have to be 20 Members who have to have that concern. We made all of these changes. 
   Now I understand the complaint is that we did not change it enough, or is it the process? Is that process? Is that a process issue? There are still problems with it. Everybody who has spoken against this bill has raised problems with it, but none of them have raised an objection to taking a vote. 
   I just received the latest in a series of fliers I have been graced with over the last several days; this one from an industry coalition. The first thing we got today was a report from the president of the Chamber of Commerce who came out against our bill. Somebody told me they were at a Chamber of Commerce meeting not long ago and they mentioned my bill, and most of the people there broke into applause. I ought to be careful talking about the Chamber of Commerce. 
   This is coming from the president of the Chamber of Commerce, who I do not think speaks for the average business person in America on this issue. Let's get that straight. First of all, he complains that it is limited to one country--obviously, he has not read the bill--that if we do this, it will effectively kill the bill, not that we have this serious problem and we should do something about it, but effectively it will kill the bill. 
   Then he says he is getting ready to leave for a tour of Asia and going to wind up in Beijing, but before he leaves, he delivers his last salvo against my amendment, purporting to speak for all the members, I suppose, of the Chamber of Commerce. I hope while he is in Beijing, he will ask them to quit selling weapons of mass destruction to our enemies. I hope that is on his agenda while he is talking about his trade. 
   The latest has been a sheet put out by the High-Tech Industry Coalition on China, the American Electronics Association, Business Software Alliance, Computer Systems Policy Project, Computer Technology Industry Association, Consumer Electronics Association, Electronic Industry Alliance, Information Technology Industry Council, National Venture Capital Association, Semiconductor Industry Association, Semiconductor Equipment Materials International, Software and Information Industry Association, Telecommunications Industry Association, and United States Information Technology Offices. 
   All of them have joined together to put out this opposition sheet to this bill. Some people have been so crass as to imply that maybe it was this feverish lobbying that is going on from exporters that might have something to do with the opposition to this bill. 
   But I have the greatest respect, from what I know, about this entire group here. Our high-tech industry has done phenomenally well. They are creative. They have contributed mightily to our economy. They want to export; I understand that. They want to make more money; I understand that. God bless them. More power to them. But I do not see any association listed on here that has any responsibility for the protection of this country. 
   We can vote on human rights, religious freedom, and all the other important things, but the only thing that poses a danger to this country we can't get a vote on because we didn't go through the ``process'' because it needs to go back to a committee. The chairman of that committee gave the most eloquent statement that has been given on behalf of my amendment. One Senator just said he wants to send it to a committee that does not want it, whose chairman, Senator HELMS, says  we do not need it; that we have had enough hearings; that we know what the problem is. 
   Give me a break. There will be a vote on this issue. But let's get back to the latest salvo, which may or may not have something to do with what we are dealing with tonight. The information they are putting out says this undercuts China PNTR; that it will undo PNTR; that it will return us to inflammatory annual votes on China. 
   I have been involved in a few annual votes on China. I do not remember the flames, but be that as it may, this will not kill PNTR. The die is cast on PNTR. The House has passed PNTR. We are going to pass PNTR. The only issue is whether or not in doing so, we raise the issue with our new ``strategic trading partners,'' the issue that we are making this world a more dangerous one. 
   The House passed it by a 40-vote margin. Are you here to tell me that if we passed it and added on a nuclear proliferation component, that it would make it more difficult for the House to pass it again? It would have to go back to the House if we add anything new. So for the folks who might be listening and watching, the deal is, they say: You can't pass the Thompson amendment because it is different from what the House passed. If you make any changes, it has to go back to the House for another vote, and they might not vote for it again. That is the bottom-line argument for those who oppose this amendment. 
   My first response is, so what. If we have a serious national security problem and issue that is paramount, it begs the question: Is this problem serious enough for us to address? I can join issue on that argument and respect my friends who disagree with it. But don't tell me that even though it may be that serious, we can't add it on over here because the House might have to take another vote. That is an insult to this body. Since when did we stop being the world's greatest deliberative body and become a rubber stamp for the House of Representatives? 
   The practical answer to this particular accusation is that it will not kill PNTR. Before the sun sets, they will have it 
   back over there, and they will revote on it. Nobody is going to go into an election just having cast a vote for it and then a vote against it, and the vote against it has a proliferation tag-on. That is going to make it more difficult to vote for it? Give me a break. 
   Please, be serious in your arguments, I say to my friends. There are some serious arguments to be had around here. I had a good discussion with the Senator from Kansas today on sanctions in general--a good discussion. But don't tell me, as a Senator, I have to rubber stamp something, when the House of Representatives identifies problems--religious persecution, slave labor, Radio Free Asia--and then it comes over here, and we can't identify the only thing that is a threat to this Nation. 
   All those things are things that ought to be identified. They were correct in doing that. But to tell us that we have to rubber stamp it, that the benefits of PNTR to this country are so great, and so obvious, and so overwhelming, and so clear, that we are afraid to risk letting the House, with a 40-vote margin, with a nuclear proliferation add-on, have another shot at it because it is going to cost us a few more days--while the Chinese Government, as we speak, is trying to undercut the WTO agreement. That is just kind of a sideline. We see this in the paper now. We understand. They are trying to mess with Taiwan coming into the WTO later. They are trying to renege on some of the agreements that they have previously made in their bilateral agreement with us. They must not have any respect at all for us right now. We have danced to their tune now for a few years. We do not make any big fuss about the theft of nuclear secrets. We say: Boys will be boys. Everybody does that. 
   The Chinese military puts money into our campaigns, and they say, again: Maybe the higher-ups didn't know about it. We give them WTO. We give them a veto on a national missile defense system. That is the reason the President put off that decision, because the Russians and the Chinese objected to it. 
   We send delegations over there asking them to please stop their proliferation activities. They give us the back of their hand and say: We're going to continue our activities as long as you continue with the missile defense system and your friendship with Taiwan. 
   Then the President meets Jiang Zemin at the Waldorf in New York on Friday. According to the New York Times, the President once again raised the issue of what they were doing with regard to Pakistan. They have outfitted Pakistan. They took a nation, a small nation with no nuclear capability, and have outfitted Pakistan, soup to nuts. Not only do they have missiles, M-11 missiles, goodness knows what else, but they now have, apparently, missile plants where they can make their own. 
   The Chinese are probably ready to sign a new agreement now not to ship any more in there. They do not need to. They have equipped Pakistan so they can do it themselves. They have made that place a tinderbox. So the President rightfully brings this up, according to the New York Times. 
   Jiang Zemin's response, apparently, according to the New York Times, was to smile, wish the President well on his pending retirement, and to thank him for his assistance in getting them into the WTO. They must not have much respect for us anymore. 
   And we are over here saying we are afraid to give our House of Representatives another vote on this, regardless of the merits of the case. It would kill, as they say, the PNTR. They are incorrect. They are wrong. They are brilliant people. They have contributed mightily to our economy. I am talking about all these high-tech people. I want to help them in every way I can. I am with them on most things. But they do not know this subject. We are supposed to know it. We are given access to classified information. We are paid the big bucks to spend long hours poring over these documents that the intelligence people bring to us--and the Rumsfeld Commission and the Deutch Commission and the Cox Commission, and all the rest. It is not their responsibility. 
   But they are papering this town. I said today, you can't stir the lobbyists with a stick. Everybody is petrified of this amendment. I think the reason is because they fear it will irritate the Chinese and maybe cause us some problems, trade retaliation, or something like that. But the Chinese want this mightily. They want this PNTR badly. They have a $69 billion trade surplus with us. 
   There will be no killing of that golden goose. They are not foolish people. 
   They also said that it is ineffective because it is a unilateral sanction. Unilateral sanctions rarely achieve the intended results of the targeted country, but they penalize American companies, workers, and investments. Let me tell you when an American company or worker would be penalized. If we catch the Chinese entities selling missile parts or the ability to make bombs, nuclear weapons, to Libya, let's say, then we are going to cut off military and dual use that can be used for military purposes, we are going to cut those sales off. So if you make those items, you are going to be affected. The President has the discretion--let me add that--and it does not happen automatically. 
   The process, under our bill, is that we have a report. Our intelligence agencies give a report. It identifies these entities, companies that are doing these things. Then our President has the discretion or he has to make a determination, depending on the category, but it is within his power to exercise the appropriate remedy. We are not talking about cutting off sales of wheat or food or shoes--we would not be selling them shoes--or any other commodity. We are talking about munitions and dual-use items. 
   If you are affected by that, you will be affected by this bill. I don't know about the company president, but I will bet you, if you said to the average worker--that is 2 percent, by the way, of our dual use and munitions; our entire trade with China is 2 percent of our exports; 2 percent is what we are so afraid of here--if you said to the average worker: we are going to impose these restrictions or these sanctions on China for a year to try to get them to clean up their act because we have caught these Chinese companies doing these things. Obviously, it is going to make it a more dangerous place for  your kids if we keep on down this road. We need to get their attention. It is going to mean some loss of sales for the company you work for. Do you think we ought to do it? 
   I don't think there is any question about that. I have more faith and confidence in the American worker and the American farmer. 
   They talk about farmers being concerned. Well, agriculture is not directly affected, but what if the Chinese get mad at us and decide to cut off some of our agricultural exports? 
   I think my Tennessee farmers are willing to take that chance. If that is the price we have to pay to sell corn, then that is too high a price to pay. I am like all these other agriculture Senators here. I have agriculture. I have farmers. They are concerned about these issues. But they are also very patriotic. When you come right down to it, there are a lot of organizations running around using the names of various people, but when you come right down to the workers of America and the farmers of America, you are not cutting off exports of goods across the spectrum, and you are certainly not cutting off agricultural exports. They would see through that. They would say, well, yes, there is an indirect possibility, if I am in a certain area, that there might be some ramifications down the road. But if that possibility were to occur, if that is what I have to do to help make this place a little bit safer and get their attention because, goodness knows, if we can't get their attention while we are about to give them this trade bill, we are never going to get their attention, I think they would be 
   willing to go along with that. 
   What else do they say? It duplicates current U.S. proliferation laws. The last point was the unilateral sanction. Of course, this was drafted by some lobbyists downtown. We all know that that works for these folks. All the points are always the same. They hand them around town. Everybody uses them. Do you really think their real concern is that these sanctions won't work or that we are duplicating current laws? Is that what is stirring up all this activity, that we are being inefficient in some way? Please. 
   Unilateral sanctions don't work. Well, some don't. And there is a chance these might not. But there is a good chance they might. 
   Why is the Chinese Government so upset? If you read the French newspapers--and I assure you, they are translated in English before I read them--or the Chinese, you will see that there is tremendous consternation over the Thompson-Torricelli amendment. Why do you think that is, if we are only duplicating what is already on the books and unilateral sanctions don't work? Do you think they are concerned because we are about to do something that doesn't work, or do you think they are going to maybe think twice before they continue their activity because they know that at least the Congress is serious about this? They are going to continue to get highlighted and embarrassed in the world community for making this a more dangerous world. I think it is the latter. 
   I have had Mr. Berger, the President's national security adviser, tell me that on occasions when they have actually used or threatened unilateral action in times past, that it has had an effect. I don't think they have done it nearly enough, and we have strong disagreements about that. That is part of the problem we have had. They have gone around the barn to apologize for 95 percent of what the Chinese Government has done here. That is the reason we are here tonight. But when they have on occasion done this, he has told me it has had effect. 
   You can't have it both ways. Unilateral sanctions sometimes do work. We are not talking about these blanket agricultural sanctions or going towards some particular country. We are going to the supplier and saying that we are going to cut off the relevant goods and items if we continue to catch you doing these things that you are flaunting disrespectfully. 
   Unilateral sanctions undercut PNTR, will kill PNTR, and duplicates current laws. To a certain extent that is right. There are laws on the books now that require sanctions, just as we are proposing, or close to it. 
   So you say, THOMPSON, why are you doing this? Well, because we have other provisions, such as a little more congressional oversight, such as a more extensive report where it would make it more difficult for a President to game the system and do what President Clinton said he had to do on occasion--that is, to fudge the facts--because if he made a finding against a company that he didn't want to move against for diplomatic reasons, the law would require him to do that. He didn't want to do that. 
   What this does is make it more transparent. The President can still do it, but he has to give Congress a reason why he is not imposing sanctions on an entity that has been found to have been selling weapons of mass destruction. 
   While it duplicates current law in many respects, which is a point in our favor because we are not doing something new and dangerous and onerous and burdensome, the President should already be doing some of these things. What we are doing is saying, yes, that, but also in addition to that, a mechanism whereby we can have some enforcement to it, have some congressional oversight and highlight the fact that the President has some options here. 
   The President can address the capital markets issue. One of the things the opponents have complained about is the fact that our bill actually gives the President the authority to say to a particular Chinese company or, for that matter, a Russian or a North Korean company, but the big players right now, such as Petro China or the Chinese companies, raising billions of dollars in our stock markets, in the New York Stock Exchange, going back, in some cases, to enhance the Chinese military--and in many cases, according to the Deutch Commission and according to the Cox committee, these are proliferators of weapons of mass destruction, raising all this money in our capital markets. 
   How many people know about that? You know, we don't want to close our capital markets. We can't do that without thought. But, for goodness' sake, that is a privilege; that is not a right for them to come in and raise money from our people who do not know who they are dealing with--raise billions of dollars, while at the same time selling stuff that is making the world more dangerous for that investor's kids. Do we really want to keep financing these people that way? I don't think so. 
   According to this latest leaflet, it is inconsistent with current nonproliferation regimes. It would be activated by a hair-trigger mechanism--a hair-trigger mechanism--based on credible information. Well, that just comes from a misunderstanding of the law and what the bill says. 
   What the bill says is that if you get credible information that they are doing these things, you have to put it in the report. That is the only thing it activates. That is the hair-trigger they are talking about. If our intelligence people find that you are selling these things to these rogue nations, you have to put it in the report. 
   Now, the President takes a look at that. If it has to do with a country, he has total discretion as to what to do. If it has to do with a company, an entity, say a state-owned company in China, as so many of them are, the President has to make a determination that in fact the credible evidence is true. Then the President has an option to have a waiver. Even after he makes a determination that the allegations are true, he still has a waiver that he can exercise before all of this happens, before any sanctions are levied. That is the hair-trigger they are talking about. 
   They are just misinforming folks. I think it comes from a lack of understanding of what is in the bill. Somebody downtown, hopefully, will read it more carefully. You can have a lot of complaints about it, and so be it, but let's not misrepresent what it does. There is no hair-trigger, there is no automatic sanction, no automatic anything; it is discretionary with the President. If it is credible evidence, it goes into the report. 
   Some people say: Well, it might be credible evidence, but it might not be proof beyond a reasonable doubt; we might catch up some innocent Chinese company. We are not trying a criminal lawsuit here. We are talking about information to go into a report for the  American people to see and for Congress to see. If it turns out we are incorrect, we can correct that when the time comes. 
   I don't want to be callous about this just because they are Chinese companies and maybe had proliferation problems in the past. I don't want to accuse anybody of anything of which they are not guilty. My guess is, if our intelligence community takes the time and effort and concludes that this information is credible enough to go into the report, they probably did it. Considering the fact that they are the world's leading proliferators of weapons of mass destruction, somebody over there is doing it--not proof beyond a reasonable doubt, but, then again, we are not putting anybody in the penitentiary. We are trying to protect the American people.  
   Contains automatic overbroad sanctions. The bill mandates automatic U.S. sanctions against any private or governmental entity, even for acquisition of commodity level products.  
   Somebody is not paying attention, are they? ``Mandates 
   automatic U.S. sanctions.'' It is just not true. The bill doesn't do that. There is nothing automatic about it. It is within the power and determination of the President if he chooses to do that. Then he has a waiver if he wants to use that. It is a modest step. 
   I think this report is the most important part of this legislation. It is a more extensive report. We get these halfway jobs, summaries, but this is a more extensive report. The President will know we are getting it, and we will have a dialog about who is on it and why and to the extent the President is doing anything about it. The report requires the President to tell us what he intends to do about it. He doesn't have to do anything. But there is the pressure, I would think, for most Presidents, to want to have a pretty good reason if they didn't choose to do anything about it once that credible evidence was there. 
   So, my friends who may be listening to this, there is an awful lot of false information going around. I know these people didn't intend to do this. They are in the business of advancing technology. They are the world's best, and God bless them. But they are not in this business. Somebody downtown is doing this who wants to win too badly. There are no automatic sanctions.  
   Underwent an inadequate public process.  
   Well, we are getting back to my friends from Wyoming and Texas.  
   Deserves a full vetting by the Senate, not the hurried and nonpublic process that has characterized the consideration of this bill. Subsequent drafts and basic proposals have not addressed the bill's deficiencies. Should not be substituted for critical processes, such as public hearings.  
   In other words, we haven't had any public hearings. Somebody is not paying attention. I just read off two pages of the public hearings that we have had on this general subject matter. Nobody paid attention then because trade was not involved; it was only national security. Now they are shocked to find out that all this time we have been having public hearings, and we have been getting the reports from bipartisan commissions all this time warning us, warning Congress, warning the American citizens, that it is becoming more dangerous. Countries such as North Korea will have the capability of hitting us within 5 years of their decision to do so. We know that some time ago they decided to have that capability. We know that some years ago they already decided to have the capability. 
   Shortly after we got the report, they fired a two-stage rocket over the country of Japan--another one of our allies. I guess, now that I think about it, that delivered more than one message, didn't it? It told the good old USA: Yes, we have that capability that you are debating over there. This is what we have. It shocked our intelligence community and surprised us. The Rumsfeld Commission told us they feared that was the case, and then they showed us the capability. Of course, Japan is one of our closest allies. So I suppose that accentuated it. 
   So we have gone through all that. How much does it take? And now my friends from Texas and Wyoming say we can't have a vote. We can't even have a vote on an issue that poses a direct threat to the security of this Nation because it hasn't sufficiently gone through the process. 
   Then we had the Deutch Commission telling us some of the same things. And then the Cox Commission told us that, relevant to our export laws, the Chinese Government was using our technology and the supercomputers we were sending to them to perfect and enhance their nuclear capability. 
   Was it Lenin who said, ``The U.S. would sell the rope with which to hang itself''? 
   That is what that issue is all about. That is serious business. That opens another whole question about our export laws. That is why we have this debate and concern. My friends from Wyoming and Texas and I disagreed. So did these other Senators from various other committees, chairmen of these committees. It wasn't just me. 
   At this particular time, while we can't put the genie back in the bottle, we can't keep technology from circling the globe eventually. But there is great dispute among experts as to what people can get their hands on and how long it will take other countries to get their hands on our technology. We shouldn't ship it out willy-nilly and let the Commerce Department decide. Some of our friends would let the Commerce Department decide whether or not these things ought to be sent around. The Commerce Department is in the business of business. Again, more power to them. But this is not a commerce issue. This is a national security issue. We should not be blind to our commercial interests, and we should not be unreasonable about that. 
   But there are more important things than whether we should be loosening our export laws and saying, well, if we can make it, everybody is going to have it eventually. So we might as well give it to them tomorrow. Even if we are able to slow them down somewhat, this is a dangerous world. I am looking to the day we find out the direct proof that one of these rogue nations has what we shipped to China and China just passed it along. I assume it has already happened, but we don't have any proof of that. That is what all of this is really about, in my opinion. 
   It goes on to say here--this is the last objection--it provides for dangerous procedures and fast-track procedures would inevitably lead to highly politicized annual votes. 
   Our bill, of course, says the President's actions have been, frankly, inadequate. I think some of President Clinton's actions have been totally inadequate with regard to some of these decisions. 
   Our intelligence has proof that the Chinese Government sent M-11 missiles to Pakistan, and the response from the State Department is: No. We are not going to impose sanctions there because we cannot prove it. We only see canisters on the ground that we know were put there by the Chinese on Pakistani docks. But we do not really know that there are missiles inside the canisters. 
   What can you say to that? 
   Then there was another occasion where we proved that they sent ring magnets to the Pakistanis, and those go to enhance the uranium enrichment process that goes into these nuclear weapons. The answer there was that we did not have sufficient proof that those high up enough in the Chinese Government really signed off on that. 
   We are requiring courtroom-level proof. Instead of requiring them to bear the burden, you had better prove to us that you didn't do it because it sure looks as if you did it. No, we are putting the burden on ourselves to have a level of proof that no one can ever reach because our diplomats and some of our administration officials are living in another world. They think if they can continue to dialog with the leadership of the Communist Chinese Government that things are going to magically fall into place. 
   In this bill we said if we run into one of those situations Congress ought to have some input. Congress hasn't done enough in this regard. We can't sit back and say that we can't mess with the President's authority. We have done that too much--go into wars, and everything else--partially under the jurisdiction of this body. And we really do not want to take the political heat for making the decisions. 
   Our tendency, it seems to me nowadays, is to sit back 
   and let the President do the tough stuff and make those decisions. We will criticize him every once in a while. We don't want to be involved. That exposes us to criticism if we make a mistake.  
   If you look at the national political polls, national security and foreign affairs ranks, only 2 percent of the people in this country would put it at the top of their area of concern--2 percent. That doesn't get the attention of a lot of people around here. So we sit back. We have done it too long. The problem is that this administration has sat back right along with us. The result of that has been a more dangerous world. 
   We signal to our allies that we claim we need a national missile defense system because of rogue nations. But the signal is we are really not that worried about it; Trade is more important. We are signaling to the leadership of the Chinese Government that we may or may not be concerned about this. We may issue a sanction in one out of every five times we catch it. 
   That is still going to lead to a more dangerous world because they somewhere along the line are going to misjudge how far we will go in response to some action. 
   What we need to do is have something right now that is measured, that is reasonable, and that is not extreme to put in place to simply send a signal that while we are approving the trade bill, that trade is not the only thing that is important to us and that we are going to blow the whistle on them and maybe cut off some of their dual-use technology. Yes--perhaps even with hardship on one or more of those conferences. That is the signal we need to send. 
   So we fashioned the provision in this bill that said if 20 Senators agree that we should disagree with the President's action--that we think it is clear and he is doing nothing, or that we think it is not so clear and he is doing something and we believe we should become involved--if 20 of us think that way, we can become involved in a variety of actions. He can veto that. Or it would take a tremendously unusual situation for us to actually get anything done, quite frankly. Everybody knows that. I know that. Overriding the President's veto on something like that would be tremendous. It would have to be an egregious situation. That is the kind of thing we need to signal to the world that we are willing to do, at least in an egregious situation. 
   They say that it is dangerous. I say to them that we already have 60 laws on the books that in one form or another have this general procedure I just described. They are making it look as if it is a dangerous, unusual thing. We have at least 60 laws on the books which provide for expedited procedure in one way or another. 
   We will have an opportunity to discuss this further. As I say, I particularly want to get a vote on this. I guess I am having a hard time absorbing what has happened here. After all of this debate, all of this discussion, this clearly would not cause any harm and would not cause any problem, except some people think it would complicate the trade bill. It is not as if we are about to do something dangerous or we are about to do something where some of our critics say the law is already on the books and you don't need to do it. That is the level of danger we are talking about. 
   Our colleagues are keeping us from even having a vote. And we let all of these other things go? The Senator from Wyoming and the Senator from Texas say we haven't gone through the process enough. It has nothing to do with the fact that we couldn't get our Export Administration Act up for a vote, or chose not to. Frankly, I don't know which. If that is the case, that is the case. I take them at their word. I don't want to accuse them of having jurisdictional concerns. I say when it is in the wrong committee and it is on the wrong bill, to me that is a jurisdictional problem. If I am using the wrong word, I apologize. But the very idea that in light of this threat and in light of the good debate that we have had--and we have pros and cons on the Republican side and pros and cons on the Democratic side as to whether or not we ought to pass this. 
   We have had a good debate. We are talking about one of the few things that really matter around here. 
   Our first obligation in the preamble of our Constitution is the reason for the creation of this Government, the kind of matters we are considering here tonight. 
   To come down to this, after all these hearings and all this time, with no one denying the nature of the threat, saying it needs to be sent to the committee of jurisdiction--they know by now, of course, that the Parliamentarian has said it would go to the Foreign Relations Committee; it would not even go to their Banking Committee. The only problem they have with that is Senator HELMS is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and says he doesn't want that to happen. He wants my amendment to pass. 
   I don't understand. It has nothing to do with anything other than some jurisdiction. We need to go back and massage this a little bit more, send it back to a committee that doesn't want it. Maybe we can offer some amendments. Why not offer it now, I ask my friends from Wyoming and Texas. If you want to offer amendments, offer them now. I don't understand the nature of the problem. I cannot for the life of me understand the nature of the problem. 
   But we will have a chance, perhaps, to explore that further. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at 10 a.m. on Wednesday there be 60 minutes for closing remarks for two amendments, with the following Senators in control of time: Senator ROTH, 15 minutes; Senator MOYNIHAN, 15 minutes; Senator BYRD, 15 minutes, Senator Bob SMITH, 15 minutes. I further ask consent that the vote on the pending Byrd amendment occur immediately at 11 a.m., to be followed by a vote in relation to division 6 of Senator SMITH's amendment, No. 4129. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill which begins to address the issue of improper payments in Federal programs. 
   Each year, the Federal government spends hundreds of billions of dollars for a variety of grants, transfer payments, and the procurement of goods and services. The Federal government must be accountable for how it spends these funds and for safeguarding against improper payments. Unfortunately, the problem of improper payments by Federal agencies and departments is immense. Today, I released a GAO report which I requested which identifies $20.7 billion in improper payments in just 20 major programs administered by 12 Federal agencies in Fiscal Year 1999 alone. And this represents an increase of more than $1.5 billion from the previous year's estimate. In its report, GAO writes that its ``audits and those of agency inspectors general continue to demonstrate that  improper payments are much more widespread than agency financial statement reports have disclosed thus far.'' 
   Legislative efforts have focused on improving the Federal government's control processes. Recently-enacted laws, such as the Chief Financial Officers Act, the Government Management Reform Act, and the Government Performance and Results Act, have provided an impetus for agencies to systematically measure and reduce the extent of improper payments. 
   However, the risk of improper payments and the government's ability to prevent them continue to be a significant problem. While we continue to work to improve the government's widespread financial management weaknesses, we also can attempt to recover the tens of billions of dollars in improper payments. And that's what the legislation I am introducing today will do. 
   The legislation is modeled on H.R. 1827, a bill sponsored by House Committee on Government Reform Chairman Dan Burton, to require the use of a management technique called ``recovery auditing'' which would be applied to a Federal agency's records to identify improper payments or payment errors made by the agency. 
   Recovery auditing is used extensively by private sector businesses, including a majority of Fortune 500 companies. These businesses typically contract with specialized recovery auditing firms that are paid a contingent fee based on the amounts recovered from overpayments they identify. Recovery auditing is not ``auditing'' in the usual sense. Recovery auditing firms do not examine the records of vendors doing business with their client companies or assess the vendors' performance. Instead, these firms develop and use computer software programs that are capable of analyzing their clients' own contract and payment records in order to identify discrepancies in those records between what was owed and what was paid. They focus on obvious but inadvertent errors, such as duplicate payments or failure to get credit for applicable discounts and allowances. 
   The bill I am introducing today would require Federal agencies to perform recovery audits in order to identify discrepancies between what was actually paid by the agency and what should have been paid. This bill seeks to address concerns with H.R. 1827 which were raised after its passage by the House. For example, this bill would make clear that the relationship established by this bill is one between the agency and the recovery audit contractor, and all communications and interaction on the part of the recovery audit contractor is with the agency. Further, this bill includes exemptions for contracts which, under current law, already are subject to extensive audit scrutiny and oversight. Also, this bill includes Federal agency authority for recovery audit pilot programs for contracts, grants or other arrangements other than those covered by this bill. 
   I appreciate all the work done by Chairman Burton on H.R. 1827. I believe my legislation appropriately addresses concerns raised with that bill and goes a long way in addressing the wasted taxpayer dollars and government inefficiencies resulting from Federal agency payment errors which are made each year. 
   Mr. CAMPBELL: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 354 submitted earlier by Senator LOTT and Senator DASCHLE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask unanimous consent that the Injunction of Secrecy be removed from the following treaties transmitted to the Senate on September 12, 2000, by the President of the United States: Protocol Amending Investment Treaty with Panama (Treaty Document 106-46); and Investment Treaty with Azerbaijan (Treaty Document 106-47). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday, September 13. I further ask consent that on Wednesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then begin a period of morning business until 10 a.m., with the time equally divided between Senator THOMAS and Senator DURBIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. For the information of all Senators, at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow the Senate will be in a period of morning business until 10 a.m. Following morning business, there will be 60 minutes for closing remarks on two amendments: The Byrd amendment, regarding safeguards; and division 6 of the Smith amendment, No. 4129. Votes on those two amendments will be back to back at 11 a.m. 
   Senators should be aware that there are amendments currently pending to the PNTR bill and further amendments are expected to be offered. Therefore, votes are expected throughout the remainder of the week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 8:28 p.m., adjourned until Wednesday, September 13, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, it has been said that the vote on permanent normal trade relations with China is one of the most significant pieces of legislation this body will have voted on in a long time. That very well may be true. 
   For a number of reasons, I think most of the Members of this body are firmly committed to the concept of free trade. It has done the United States very well. We all know we are in the midst of a technological revolution that is increasing our productivity in this country and is giving us advantages we have never known before in the international marketplace. But it is not a zero sum game either; it has been beneficial for the whole world. 
   I sign on to the concept that free trade leads to free markets and that free markets can lead to freer societies. The new trade arrangement we will be entering into with the People's Republic of China is also unique in many respects. As we know, they have 1.2 billion-plus people in China. It is a tremendous market upon which everyone now is focused. While our trade with China only constitutes about 2 percent of our international trade at this point, there are those who believe that can be increased substantially. 
   Usually we are trading with people who share our ideals and who share our  values. This is not always true as far as the People's Republic of China is concerned. We have just been reminded again by our own State Department that the religious persecution that has been going on in China for some time actually is not only not showing any improvement; it seems to be deteriorating. Yet there are many here who argue--most of the people in this Chamber, I assume--that PNTR represents something so attractive to this country that we must adopt it, that it is a good deal. 
   That argument is powerfully set forth, even though the PRC has not kept agreements in times past. Even its foremost advocates would have to acknowledge that its record on compliance with agreements in times past has been spotty at best. When it comes to intellectual property, for example, it has been a haven of piracy. They have been major exporters of pirated goods from this country. 
   One must also wonder whether or not the Chinese can really comply with the commitments they have made in light of the economic conditions in their country. They are experiencing slower growth rates. They are experiencing greater unemployment. We are seeing indications of rioting in various parts of China because of unemployment and because of some of the things we have seen happen in Russia and other countries. When they begin to privatize a little bit, some of the governmental officials seem to wind up with the goods and the property, and the average people see that and don't like it. It causes instability and in some cases rioting. That is prevalent in China right now. If they lower the barriers in ways they are talking about, it will only increase that instability. Obviously, it will have to be done gradually and over a very long period of time. 
   That is why it is wise for us not to overhype the benefits we may get out of this action. We do about 2 percent of our trade with China now. Most people think the maximum probably is going to be up to 2.5 percent of our trade. So it is important to our country, but it is not of monumental importance, in my opinion, especially in the short run, in light of all these immediate difficulties they are going to have in implementing what they say they are going to implement. 
   We should be realistic, too, especially in light of the fact that we are going to be giving up many of the unilateral actions we could take under present circumstances. When we go into a WTO context, we will be having to depend upon that body, that organization, and the international community, as it were, in order to seek compliance. Many writers have pointed out this is going to be very difficult because China is not a transparent society. How do we prove unfair trade practices or violations of WTO if there are no records that are decipherable with which to prove it? 
   So there are many difficulties with the implementation of this agreement which might result in greater riches to this country and doing something about the $68, $69 million trade imbalance we have with China right now. 
   So it is a gamble. It is a gamble on our part that by gradually lowering these barriers to trade, by gradually opening up society, this trade will lead to a gradual opening up of society with the Internet and what not, additional travel and additional exchange programs and additional trade; that we will wake up one day and China will be a democratic society. And in the meantime, we will maintain their friendship so that the world will not be a more dangerous place but a less dangerous place. 
   That is the gamble we are making because clearly if this is carried out the way that people on both sides hope it will be, China will become even more powerful economically with all those great numbers of people, and therefore they will become much more powerful militarily. You only have to read a little bit of what is coming out of China these days by their intelligentsia concerning military plans and their view of the United States and the fact that many in their country see conflict as inevitable, and that they are laying the firm economic groundwork so that they can have a growing and more powerful military in the future. That should be of great concern to us. We are limited as to what we can do about that. 
   So we take this gamble, before that comes into fruition--if that is their path--that they can open up that society somewhat and lead to a more open society, a democratic society. On the other hand, the Chinese are taking a gamble in that they can open up economic trade somewhat, and they can adopt a more capitalistic society and still maintain dictatorial control from the top, and that it will not get away from them. Our people say that once that starts happening, once we get in there, there will be no stopping it; democracy is right down the road. 
   The Chinese don't see it that way. They are gambling. I think it is a gamble worth taking. I think it is a gamble worth taking because of our leadership and free markets and free economies and democratic society in this country. I think we should go down that road and we should take that chance. And I am not sure we have much of an option in that regard. But while we take that chance, we should be very mindful of the dangers that are presented to this country down the road from China and others. And we should be especially mindful of one particular category of Chinese conduct right now of all the categories that concern us, including human rights, religious freedom, and all the rest. 
   The one particular category that poses a mortal threat to the welfare of this Nation has to do with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The fact is that while we are willing to take this chance and we go down the road to trade with China, they are engaging in activities that pose a mortal danger to the welfare of this country. That is the subject of the amendment that I have just offered. 
   The China nonproliferation amendment seeks to do something about this. I have sought to have a separate vote on this amendment because I don't consider it to be a trade-related amendment. I have sought, for about a month now, to have a debate in the context of our relationship with China but not to have it as an amendment to PNTR. I have been thwarted in that effort. I only have two choices--either relenting altogether or doing what I said I would do; that is, filing it as an amendment to PNTR. Well, that choice is obvious. I have made that choice today because of the importance that I attach to it. 
   Mr. President, the world is a more dangerous place today because of a growing number of so-called rogue nations such as North Korea, Iran, and Libya, who have obtained and are in the process of obtaining additional weapons of mass destruction and the missile means by which to deliver them. Now, Congress has been informed of this on numerous occasions. It doesn't get a lot of attention but the information has been consistent. Two years ago, the bipartisan Rumsfeld Commission concluded that rogue states such as North Korea and Iran could develop an intercontinental ballistic missile within 5 years of deciding to do so. It is pretty clear that they have decided to do so. 
   Shortly thereafter, North Korea surprised our intelligence agencies by successfully launching a three-stage rocket over Japan, essentially confirming what the Rumsfeld Commission had told us. Last September, the National Intelligence Estimate, released a report that ``During the next 15 years, the United States most likely will face ICBM threats from Russia, China, and North Korea, probably from Iran, and possibly from Iraq.'' It went ahead to point out that as soon as economic sanctions were lifted against Iraq, they will probably be back in business. Saddam will be reinstituting his ability to wreak havoc in various parts of the world along with the rest. We have received other intelligence reports. Much of it is classified, so I invite my colleagues to avail themselves of these reports, which are even more troubling than what has been made public. 
   Earlier this year, Robert Walpole, National Intelligence Officer for Strategic and Nuclear Programs, testified that the threats to our Nation's security are real and increasing. Mr. President, it is clear that these rogue nations may have ICBMs much sooner than previously thought, and that they will be more sophisticated and dangerous. And we have taken note in this Congress--finally, last year--by passing the National Missile Defense Act. That is the primary reason that we need a national missile defense system  in this country. We belatedly recognized that because of this threat I speak of from the rogue nations. 
   But that is only half of the story. Equally alarming is the fact that Congress has also been repeatedly informed that these rogue nations are being supplied by major nations with whom the United States is entering into increased cooperative arrangements. Last month, the Director of the CIA provided to Congress the intelligence community's biannual report on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We get these reports sent to Congress twice a year. 
   Basically, they have always been in recent history, the same. This report identified China, Russia, and North Korea as key players in nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons technology. According to this report, the Chinese activity has actually increased in support of Pakistan's activities. And China has also ``provided missile-related items, raw materials, and/or assistance to several countries of proliferation concern--such as Iran, North Korea, Libya.'' China, of course, has a long history of proliferating chemical weapons technologies to Iran--nuclear, chemical, and biological. 
   The DCI's report also describes Russia's efforts to proliferate ballistic missile-related goods and technical know-how to countries such as Iran, India, and Libya. Russia is also identified as a key supplier of nuclear technology to Iran and to India. They also have provided a considerable biological and chemical expertise and technology to Iran. 
   North Korea, of course, was identified as a key supplier. This is an interesting country because they have a nation full of people who are apparently starving to death. Yet they not only have managed to become a threat themselves, they have become the clearinghouse for that part of the world. They have become a vendor of weapons of mass destruction. They get help from the big powers, and then with regard to the other smaller powers in that part of the world they begin to assist them. The report identified North Korea 
   as a supplier of ballistic missile equipment, missile components, and material expertise to countries in the Middle East, south Asia, and North Africa, just as North Korea is doing. 
   This latest CIA report is consistent with past reports. We have seen it throughout the 1990s. China is supplying Pakistan with everything from soup to nuts for their mass destruction capabilities, and assistance to North Korea's weapons of mass destruction and missile programs. Just this summer, it was reported that China was helping Pakistan build a second missile factory, transferring missile equipment to Libya, assisted Iran with its missile program, and diverted a U.S. supercomputer for use to its own nuclear programs. All of this occurred in violation of a variety of international treaties, agreements, and U.S. laws. 
   The bottom line is that these activities by China, Russia, and North Korea pose a serious threat to the United States. That threat is growing. This is at a time when we are granting permanent normal trade relations to China. This is at a time when we are sending over $1 billion a year to Russia and providing other assistance to North Korea. 
   It is inconceivable to me that while we discuss trade issues and a new relationship with China, we will not address what China is doing to endanger our country. It is just that simple. That is what this amendment does. 
   I know people in this body want to pass PNTR. They do not want any complications. They want to get it done, wrapped up; the President wants his legacy, and we want to please our friends in the business community; and we all know trade is a good thing, and so forth. But it is inconceivable to me that we can address these trade-related issues and embrace our new trading partner--China--in a new regime without also addressing and doing something about the fact that they are making this world, and particularly the United States, a more dangerous place to live. The Federal Government's first responsibility is national security. 
   In July of 1999, the bipartisan Commission to Assess the Organization of the Federal Government to Combat the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction--commonly known as the Deutch Commission--concluded that ``the U.S. Government is not effectively organized to combat proliferation,'' despite the fact that ``Weapons of mass destruction pose a grave threat to United States citizens and military forces, to our allies, and to our vital interests in many regions of the world.'' 
   It couldn't be any plainer than that, from one of our bipartisan commissions of experts that look at this and try to come to us and warn of what is happening. 
   Therefore, Senator TORRICELLI and I have introduced the China Nonproliferation Act. Now we have introduced it as an amendment to PNTR. This amendment provides for an annual report to Congress and to the American people as to the proliferation activities of these three nations because they are the ones on which the CIA is required to report now anyway because they have already been identified as key suppliers--the three nations I have mentioned: China, Russia, and North Korea. 
   It authorizes the President, if he makes the determination based on the credible evidence he has before him, to impose some non-trade-related sanctions on these Chinese companies that are selling these weapons of mass destruction. It authorizes the President to take various actions. There is a list of them. 
   One of the things it authorizes him to do is to cut these companies out of our capital markets in this Nation. China raises billions of dollars in our capital markets on the New York Stock Exchange to go back and spend on its own military. Most people do not know that, I assume. I am not here suggesting we stop that, unless the President determines that they or their companies are engaging in activities, which are controlled by them, that are dangerous to this Nation. 
   Is this not the minimum we can do in this legislation? There is other legislation on the books, certainly. But this legislation, by a more extensive report, requires the President to come to Congress, basically--it does not force the President to take any action, but if he doesn't take action against these companies that are found to be proliferating, he has to tell Congress why. 
   In this legislation, if 20 percent in Congress decide they don't accept the President's conclusion, they can introduce a resolution of disapproval and get a vote on certain sanctions against these proliferating entities. The President, of course, can veto that. It would be tremendously difficult for Congress to force anything through. But it would be a very good debate, and in egregious circumstances that we have seen in times past, I think Congress actually could get some responses through. 
   The legislation also provides for increased transparency. When the President determines that these companies are proliferating and selling weapons of mass destruction, the legislation provides that the President has to inform Wall Street, and the Securities and Exchange Commission has to come up with rules and regulations that will inform investors they are investing with a company that our country and our President has determined to be a seller of mass destruction. They can still do that, if they want to. But they ought to know about it. It is amazing that this law is not already on the books. 
   Lastly, it provides for a Presidential waiver based on national security if the President decides, for his good reasons, that is appropriate. The bottom line is that with all of this concern, talk, and hullabaloo about what this legislation does and doesn't do, until the President makes a determination that these companies are engaging in activities that are a threat to this Nation, if our President does that, do we not want to take action? 
   We made changes to this legislation. The critics came out of the woodwork. No one wants anything that will complicate our trade bill with China these days, it seems. I am afraid some of the pro-trade people have their blinders on. I agree with them on how important free trade is and how important this bill is, and so forth. But we have an additional obligation which I tried to suggest to my friends. We have an additional obligation not just to put money in our pockets in trade today but to look down the road for our kids and grandkids to see if our trading partners are doing something that will endanger their welfare.  
   We have listened to our critics. We have made changes. We have tried to make sure our response was reasonable and measured. 
   Instead of singling out China, we added the other two countries. 
   Instead of having mandatory sanctions tying the President's hands, we gave the President additional flexibility where he must find that there is cause for a determination to be made against these companies. 
   The bill now contains a blanket provision that protects the agricultural community from adverse impact. 
   The bill's penalties only apply to key supplier countries and not to U.S. companies and will not affect U.S. workers. 
   We made changes in the congressional review procedure so one person couldn't tie up the whole body. It has to be one-fifth of the Members of either House to sign a joint resolution of disapproval. It is a measured response to a very serious problem. 
   Our critics have been numerous, persistent, and vociferous. They claim that the world will come to an end basically if, while we are passing PNTR, we irritate the Chinese by informing them there will be consequences to their irresponsible behavior. I don't think the world will come to an end if we do that. I think the world will be a more dangerous place if we don't do that. 
   Let's take a look at some of the things that have been said: Existing laws are sufficient, that we already have the authority on the book. If that is true, why do we see an increasing problem? All we need to do is look at the latest report from the Director of the Central Intelligence. Behavior has worsened in the past year. On the eve of considering PNTR, the behavior has worsened. What will it be after we approve PNTR? 
   On the eve of the Senate's consideration of PNTR for China, and after the House had already voted, it was revealed that China was assisting Libyan experts with that country's missile program, illegally diverting U.S. supercomputers for the use of the PRC's nuclear weapons program, and helping to build a second M-11 missile plant in Pakistan. And Iran test fired a Shahab-3 missile capable of striking Israel, capable of striking American troops, capable of striking Saudi Arabia or American bases located within the border of our NATO ally, Turkey. This missile was developed and built with significant assistance from the People's Republic of China, and the classified reports of Chinese proliferation are even more disturbing. 
   If everything is so hunky-dory, why is this happening? Why does this continue to happen? I don't think the critics are that concerned that we are duplicating existing law or it might be useless. I think they are concerned that it might be useful and that it will substantially get the attention of the Chinese. That is exactly what I intend to do. 
   Some say: We don't want to upset them while we are entering into this new trade relationship. I say that is exactly the time when we should upset them, if, in fact, they are making this a more dangerous world and posing a threat to the United States of America. 
   Some say: Let us continue with our diplomacy; we can talk to them and we can work things out. Where is the evidence of this? All I see is evidence of three delegations of senior administration officials going to Beijing, hat in hand, asking them to stop the proliferation activities, and each was sent back to Washington emptyhanded and told pointblank, according to the newspaper accounts and according to the quotation of those who were on the delegation, that as long as we persisted in a national missile defense system and as long as we persisted in supporting Taiwan, they were going to persist in their proliferation activities. 
   Basically, we can like it or lump it. Last Friday, I was interested to see three different delegations, including our Secretary of Defense, our Secretary of State--not minor; first in the administration--perceive this problem. They just don't want to do anything to acknowledge the shortcomings of this administration in having dealt with this problem or failing to deal with it. 
   Last Friday, the President got a face-to-face meeting with Jiang Zemin. I was interested in the subject of proliferation, and their activities with Pakistan, totally throwing that place out of balance. It is a tinderbox waiting to explode. Most accounts have Pakistan far and away leading India now in terms of their abilities. That is a dangerous situation. 
   According to the New York Times International on Saturday, September 9, ``President Clinton yesterday urged Jiang Zemin to put a stop to China's missile exports to Pakistan.'' Well, better late than never. ``But in what had already been a week of diplomatic frustration for Mr. Clinton, Mr. Jiang 
   offered little more than good wishes for the President's retirement in 4 months and thanks for supporting China's bid to join the World Trade Organization.'' 
   The article went on to say: ``Mr. Clinton's aides had played down the prospects of any major progress on Chinese missile exports, Tibet or Taiwan, during Mr. Clinton's last months in office. But they had hoped that the expected Senate approval this month of permanent normal trade relations with China--which the United States promised as part of its accord with China that ushers it into the World Trade Organization--would be rewarded.'' We were hoping that by doing all this the Chinese would reward us for this. ``They hoped to claim political progress on issues that have bedeviled Washington's relations with Beijing since the two first met in 1993. 
   ``In a measure of the two leaders' continuing communications problems after seven years of interchanges, a senior administration official said yesterday the meeting was designed to get these two men on the same wavelength....... 
   ``The conversation on China's missile exports to Pakistan came after Mr. Clinton, earlier this summer, sent a delegation to China to try to cut off the supply. The administration worries that any new missile technology would heighten Pakistan's ability to strike India. 
   ``But Mr. Jiang, by all accounts, has paid little attention to the issue.'' 
   I can't be bothered with you, son. We will continue our activities while we expect you to approve PNTR--no questions asked and no amendments added. 
   We, in the United States, ought to be embarrassed and ashamed at that turn of events. 
   Some say the unilateral sanctions can never be effected. I prefer bilateral sanctions, but we have apparently lost the ability to do much bilaterally these days. We can't even get a resolution through the United Nations condemning China for its obvious human rights violations. Our bill recognizes the value of this multilateral approach. It would be preferable. But over the years we have seen, though, that sometimes we need to act ourselves. 
   The major threat to these missiles and weapons of mass destruction is not Belgium, or any of our allies; it is the United States of America. We can't wait until we get everybody together on the same page which, as I said, is more and more difficult to act. In times past, we have seen that U.S. economic pressure in the late 1980s and early 1990s led China's accession to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1992. In 1991, the Bush administration applied sanctions against the PRC for missile technology transfers to Pakistan. And on and on. Even the Clinton administration took measures that led to the imposition of sanctions on the PRC for M-11 missiles on one occasion, M-11 missile equipment to Pakistan in violation of the Missile Technology Control Regime. 
   Anyway, they backed down and Mr. Berger acknowledged that sometimes these unilateral actions can be beneficial. Some say the dialog will assist, and perhaps it will, but only in conjunction with firm action. 
   The leaders of PRC are not irrational people. They only can go as far as they can. We have, obviously, allowed them to do what they are doing. When we take actions detrimental to them, they will respond to that, as they have in times past. 
   We need this amendment more than we did even a few days ago. The President recently decided not to move forward on a national missile defense. As I said earlier, national missile defense, of course, is in primary response to these threats of rogue nations. According to our estimates, they will have the ability to be a threat to us in 2005. By the President's actions, now we will be unguarded for at least a year, and maybe 2 or 3.  
   Doesn't it make sense to take this opportunity to at least have the threat of some sanctions for their activities during that period of time? Of course, China and Russia are vociferously opposing a national missile defense. I find that ironic: The same countries supplying these rogue nations with technology and missile equipment to build missiles of mass destruction are the ones that are doing the complaining. 
   I talked about the provision concerning transparency and giving the President, if he finds that it is justified, the authority to do something about their access to our capital markets. To date, over a dozen Chinese firms have raised billions of dollars in the U.S. capital markets. 
   The Deutch Commission again stated:  
   The Commission is concerned that known proliferators may be raising funds in the United States capital markets.  
   The Cox Commission review of the U.S. national security concerns with China also conclude:  
   [I]ncreasingly, the PRC is using U.S. capital markets as a source of central government funding for military and commercial development and as a means of cloaking technology acquisition by its front companies.  
   As we stand idly by. 
   In conclusion, I understand there are many who are saying: THOMPSON, we think you are trying to do a good thing here. Yes, we really do need to address this. Yes, we let it go unattended for too long. But, as an amendment to PNTR, if you add it to PNTR it will have to go back to the House and, goodness, we don't know what will happen over there if it goes back to the House. 
   The idea is that, I guess, what, 40 people would change their votes? With the Democratic Party thinking that they are very close to taking over the House of Representatives, and with the labor organizations having lined up support for Vice President Gore for President, the thinking is going to be that the labor unions are going to press 40 Members to change their votes so going into the election they will have a vote on each side of this issue? I think that is absurd on its face. If we agree to this amendment, the House will ratify it within 24 hours. 
   Besides, doesn't that beg the question? Should our primary question be whether or not the House would ratify what we do? Since when does the Senate vote on an item simply because they are afraid of what the House of Representatives might or might not do? 
   House Members included provisions in their bill regarding prison labor, import surges, religious freedom, increases in funding for Radio Free Asia. All of that was in their bill. And we are saying we can't add nuclear proliferation to that list of items? Are we going to tell the world that nuclear proliferation is not as much a concern as is funding for Radio Free Asia? 
   I think we should ask what we would be signaling to the world if, at a time when we say we need a national missile defense system, we act as though we are not concerned about nuclear proliferation at all. What signals are we sending to our allies, such as those in Taiwan? If we don't have the wherewithal to defend ourselves, how can they ever depend upon us to have the fortitude to defend them, if it really comes down to it? 
   What does it say about ourselves in dealing with a country that threatens Los Angeles? Since the last MFN vote--even besides and in addition to the increasing religious clampdown that we are seeing over there--they have sent missiles across the Taiwan Strait and they have unashamedly stolen nuclear secrets. They continue their proliferation activities. They tell our delegations, and even our President, that they are not going to be responsive at all to our concerns. They are not going to deny at all what they are doing. They are just going to tell us they are going to keep on doing it. 
   And sending major delegations to Belgrade and praising Milosevic and saying the United States of America is making the world a more dangerous place because of what we did in Yugoslavia? All of that has happened since the last time we approved PNTR. 
   What have we done in return? The President goes over and chastises our allies in Taiwan. He adopts the four ``noes'' the Chinese wanted him to. We grant concessions on WTO; We grant concessions on export control; We give China and Russia a veto on our national missile defense system; and we turn a blind eye to the proliferation activities they continue. 
   We must ask ourselves, Is this the road to peace? Is this the road to peace? The strategic ambiguity may have worked for a little while in an isolated place, but it is getting to a place now where the Chinese do not know where we are coming from, where we will draw the line, or if we will not draw the line. I don't know, and I daresay the American citizens don't know. But there have been a couple of other wars that some historians say, because of this ambiguous kind of posture, became more likely. It has been more likely to get us into wars than to keep us out of wars. Leaving the impression that we will not act when, in fact, we might is just the kind of thing that is going to cause us to get into trouble. 
   I finish by saying I support PNTR. There is no reason why we cannot trade, even with those who are engaging in some of the activities I have described. But we cannot do so while turning a blind eye to all of these reports of all of this dangerous activity, all of this continued activity by these countries. Because if we ever signal to the world that we are more concerned with the trade dollar than we are with our own national security, we will not remain a superpower for very long. Therefore I urge adoption of this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-5-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak briefly in response to one point my colleague made before Senator KYL begins. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-6-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I will take about 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-7-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, we have had a good discussion of the issues today, but recently the Senator from Montana has taken to the road of describing one of the ideas in the amendment as ``nutty.'' It doesn't really bother me if the Senator from Montana calls an idea of mine nutty. I assume that Senator TORRICELLI from New Jersey doesn't mind, either. But he is wondering where this nutty idea comes from. I will address that. 
   The Deutch Commission stated that:  
   The commission is concerned that known proliferators may be raising funds in the U.S. capital markets.  
   They concluded:  
   It is clear that the United States is not making optimal use of its economic leverage in combating proliferators. Access to capital markets is among a wide range of economic levers that could be used as carrots or sticks as part of an overall strategy to combat proliferation. Given the increasing tendency to turn to economic sanctions rather than military action in response to proliferation activities, it is essential that we begin to treat this economic warfare with the same level of sophistication and planning we devote to military options.  
   That is the source of that idea. The Deutch Commission, of course, is comprised of several distinguished U.S. citizens who gave up substantial portions of their time to serve on this Commission: Mr. John Deutch; Senator ARLEN SPECTER; Anthony Beilenson of California, served 20 years in the House; Stephen A. Cambone, director of research at the Institute of National Strategic Studies of the National Defense University; M.D.B. Carlisle, who was chief of staff to Senator COCHRAN; Henry Cooper, who is chairman of Applied Research Associates, Inc., a private consultant; Mr. James Exon, Nebraska, former Senator of the United States; Robert Gallucci, currently dean of the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown; David McCurdy of Oklahoma, former Member of the House of Representatives; Janne Nolan, professor of national security studies at Georgetown and director of the Ethics and National Security Project at the Century Foundation; Daniel Poneman, attorney at law, Hogan & Hartson; William Schneider, who is a former member of the recent Commission to Assess the Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States and was Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology from 1982 to 1986; Henry Sokolski, executive director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, a Washington-based nonprofit organization. 
   These are the people who came up with this nutty idea. I am proud to associate myself with them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-8-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-9-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I understand my colleague from Minnesota shortly will be wanting to take the floor. When he is ready, I will accede to him. In the meantime, I thought I would make a couple of observations. 
   As the Chair knows, I have introduced this amendment on behalf of Senator TORRICELLI and myself because of our concern of what is happening in the world, especially with regard to China, at a time when we are entering into a new trade relationship with them. Our strong belief is that we cannot ignore the one thing they do that poses a direct threat to this Nation, and that is a continued pattern of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and selling those items to rogue nations which, in turn, pose a threat to us--the very reason we say we need a missile defense system. 
   So we have put down the amendment, and there is strong opposition against it by some in the business community--frankly, some who really don't have any dogs in this fight, but who have been told they do, or think they do, and therefore they oppose it. There will be a handful of people who would even theoretically be affected by this legislation. It is not a broad parade-dampening situation. It is WTO-compliant. The only ones affected would be the ones selling armaments and munitions and dual-use items. Even then, the President has discretion to cut those items off if he wants. That is the limited focus, despite what you might hear all day. That is the limited focus of this legislation. 
   I have sat here and listened to my colleagues who have problems with this legislation, and they say it will kill PNTR, which it will not. It is an insult to this body to say we have to adopt the House bill exactly the way the House did it--a House bill that addressed things such as labor concerns, Radio Free Asia, and others. They sent it over here, and now we are told we can't address proliferation which, with all due respect, I think should have somewhat of a more elevated status than the things the House addressed. I can't think of anything more important than the safety and welfare of this Nation. 
   I have been listening to the concerns expressed, and it is quite clear that the opponents have not gotten together and plotted any strategy on this because some of them say our amendment is too broad and some say our amendment is not broad 
   enough--if we focused in on three countries. And we should be focusing in on more. 
   Some say that if we pass this unilateral legislation with unilateral sanctions there will be terrible ramifications; that it will have ramifications with regard to our foreign policy and with regard to our allies; that we will set back the cause of freedom and set back the cause of peace. 
   Others point out that we already have numerous unilateral sanctions and laws on the books; that they work; and that they have been somewhat successful depending on which ones you are talking about. Even Sandy Berger said that. 
   Some opponents have said that our legislation ties the President's hands. But other opponents say that the amendment is defective because you can't force the President to do anything under this bill because he has a Presidential waiver. Of course, they are correct. 
   Some say that it makes our allies angry while others say our allies will be more than willing to be there to sell what we refuse to sell. Some say we have real proliferation problems, and yet they can see nothing that has worked so far. Others claim all we need to do is engage in diplomacy, and that will work. We have a myriad of contradictions. 
   I think the bottom line is that there is opposition in search for a rationale because a lot of people do not want to do anything that they think might irritate the leaders in the Chinese Government at this particular point because they in some way, without being able to put their finger on it--even though it is very limited and even though it gives the President discretion, nothing can happen until he makes a finding and even then he has a waiver. The rest of it is totally discretionary. Even under those circumstances, nothing happens until a company has been found to be a proliferator and a threat to our Nation, in effect. Even in light of all of that, there is a vague feeling that this in some way may complicate the trade deal. That is why I said I hope we never get into the position in this country where our friends and allies and enemies perceive us to be more interested in trade than in our own national security. 
   There have been several inaccurate representations with regard to what to do with us. I mention the discretion the President has. Some say we have to take people out of our capital markets  and close our capital markets down to them. It is one of a list of things the President has the discretion to do. He probably has the discretion to do it now anyway. 
   The Deutch Commission of distinguished Americans--Democrats and Republicans, former Members of this body, the House and others, including scientists--points out that we really ought to look at our capital market situation and the fact that known proliferators are raising billions of dollars in our capital markets from Chinese companies; billions of dollars in our capital markets to, in some cases, go back and use those funds to enhance their own military. That is the Deutch Commission. So we said this should be, if it is not already, something that the Chinese know about. Put it down in black and white. They should know that the President specifically has that authority. If he determines a particular company, after it has been found to have been selling weapons of mass destruction to our enemies and people who pose a threat to us--after that finding has been made, and after the decision has been made by the President not to exercise a waiver, if then the President chooses to tell that company it can't raise money in our capital 
   markets, he ought to have the discretion to do that. Some will say: Well, they can go elsewhere. Maybe they will. 
   But if it was that easy you would not be seeing the kind of resistance and commotion now, even because of the potential threat that the President might exercise that kind of waiver. 
   We saw the China petro offer not too long ago. It was a precursor. They are looking. There are other major Chinese entities looking at our capital markets and ready to come forth with offerings that will raise billions of dollars. It is important to them. There are other markets, but there are not other markets such as the ones we have. And American investors, American investors could go abroad. But it is important to them. 
   That is the point. There is no inherent right of the People's Republic of China or companies related to them or controlled by them to have access to our capital markets. 
   One item, one potential, so as not to be trade related--it is not a trade sanction bill the way some people have thought in times past--is the low standard of evidence. Some of my colleagues, I don't think, have read the bill quite as carefully as they might. I think the implication has been that based upon credible evidence the President could impose sanctions. That is not accurate. Based upon credible evidence, if a company is found to have been proliferating, they must report. Then the President can look at that report and make his determination, and Congress will have access to that report, too. 
   They talk about mandatory sanctions. There is nothing mandatory about them in the strict sense of the word. When it comes to countries and it is only strictly discretionary when it has to do with a company, the President has to make a determination. Then, as I say, he has a waiver on the back end. 
   They are still talking about another misapprehension. As articulated today, they are still talking about agriculture and small business. There are no agricultural concerns anymore in this legislation. We removed any concern. However, my friend from Wyoming today said that some of his people in the farm community were concerned that if we did anything to irritate the Chinese they might retaliate against us and they might do it with regard to farm items. 
   I can't help my friend there. I don't think that is a farmer's concern. The farmers I know would be primarily concerned about China and Russia and North Korea selling weapons of mass destruction to these rogue nations. If we did something to stop that, and that in some indirect way caused China to turn its back on the $69 billion a year trade surplus advantage they have, which is highly unlikely, I don't think they would think that was a bad thing. 
   I think my colleague from Minnesota is prepared now. If that be the case, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-10-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Let me address a couple of points my colleague has made. In terms of the numerous references to second, third, and fourth drafts, these, of course, were attempts to address some of the concerns that opponents of the amendment were raising; the implication being, if we could and would be willing to address those concerns, that we might enjoy some support for the amendment. 
   Of course, as we addressed those concerns, the goalposts kept being moved, and we soon realized that even after all these things that were originally addressed when raised, it was impossible to satisfy the critics of the amendment because basically they did not want to do anything to irritate the leadership of the People's Republic of China at this delicate moment when we are about to give them permanent normal trade relations. 
   As to the hearings, there have been about 60 hours of hearings with regard to proliferation issues. There have been 30 hours in the committee I chair, the Governmental Affairs Committee. I point out the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee spoke on this legislation today and strongly endorses this legislation. 
   I thought at least we could agree on the nature of the problem persistently and consistently without apology presented by the leadership in the People's Republic of China, but now it seems that some think the PRC leadership just needs help in order to be better people; that we are impinging upon the PRC's authority; that we might be doing something that might in some way be interpreted as being unfair to the leadership of the PRC; that we are requiring too much in a report; that we might identify some Chinese company that might in some way later on be determined, even though there is credible evidence, to be innocent, even though we broadened it at the request of the detractors of the amendment to include other countries. 
   There is still concern that the word ``China'' appears in the title and that  the leadership in the Chinese Government presumably are going to be upset because of that and, therefore, we should not do anything about it. 
   My colleague from Minnesota takes the Chinese position with regard to whether or not they agreed to the annex to the Missile Technology Control Regime. My understanding is that our Government and the best evidence is that they agreed to the MTCR. They are coming back and saying they did not agree to the annex. That is not a position I thought we were taking in this Nation. 
   There is concern there might be a requirement to report these proliferating companies to the SEC; the SEC does not know anything about giving information to investors, which, of course, is not the case. 
   I guess we have greater problems than even I thought because I thought that while certainly we can have disagreements on the best way to approach this, now I find that some of us apparently do not even have any problems with the activities from the People's Republic of China over these last few years. 
   I wonder where my colleagues were when the Rumsfeld Commission came out 2 years ago and talked about this threat. Where was everybody when the Deutch Commission, the bipartisan group of former Members of this body and former Members of the House, scientists, and experts in the area, talked about this threat and talked about the fact that, as late as 1996, China was leading the pack in the entire world in terms of proliferators? 
   Now they are just identified as one of the top three of nations that are doing things to serve as threats to this country, and the information in the intelligence reports we continue to see is that with regard to part of their activities anyway, it is increasing as we speak; let's not do anything to upset the leadership of the People's Republic of China. 
   I wish we were dealing with the people of China. We would not have this problem. But the leadership over there, counting on having this trade and keeping dictatorial control, too, is an entity whose attention we need to get. Diplomacy has not worked. 
   It is true; we have numerous laws on the books. I said earlier that some of my colleagues were arguing that this would be catastrophic, on the one hand, and yet we have similar laws 
   already on the books, we do not need them, on the other. I did not expect to hear that in the same argument, but I think I just heard it. We have numerous laws on the books that are unilateral sanctions with regard to countries that proliferate weapons of mass destruction. That is nothing new. We pass those bills unanimously usually. 
   What is new about this legislation is the fact that a detailed report is required; the President has to give a reason for not exercising sanctions when a determination is made that companies are proliferating; and Congress has a voice. If 20 Members of Congress decide to file a petition, then we can address it ourselves. The President, of course, still has to sign the bill. The President, of course, can still veto legislation, but it does give Congress some additional voice, a voice that is needed. 
   If this had worked out all right, if we did not have this continuous pattern of behavior and continuous pattern by this administration in not requiring the Chinese to clean up their act, we would not be here tonight and we would not need this kind of legislation. 
   I make no apologies for this amendment. It is needed. It is something that is not going to go away. The People's Republic of China has made it clear they do not intend to amend their activities. It is not as if we are making progress. They told us and our delegations we sent over there in June and July of this year, and with the President of the United States and the head of the Chinese Government as late as last Friday, they continue to tell us that as long as we try to get a missile defense system through here and as long as we befriend Taiwan, they are going to continue their activities and we can take it or leave it. 
   Obviously, many of my colleagues think we ought to take it because of the enormous benefits we are going to get from this trade deal; surely we can move forward and be optimistic and be hopeful in terms of what trade might bring because free trade leads to free markets and free markets can lead to more open societies in the long run. 
   In the meantime, in addition to that, can we afford to blind ourselves to the only activity engaged in by this country or any other country--I am talking about the Chinese Government--that poses a direct and mortal threat, as we are continually told by our own commissions and intelligence community to this country? I think not, and I look forward to a resuming of the debate tomorrow. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Martha McSally, a fellow in Senator KYL's office, be granted the privilege of the floor for the duration of H.R. 4444. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 352, submitted earlier by Senators LOTT and DASCHLE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, September 12. I further ask unanimous consent that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of H.R. 4444, the China PNTR bill, as under the previous order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess from the hours of 12:30 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. for the weekly policy conferences to meet and that Senator GRAMM and Senator DURBIN be recognized as in morning business for up to 20 minutes each at a time to be determined during tomorrow's session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow, the Senate will begin closing remarks on the Byrd amendment regarding subsidies, with a vote scheduled to occur at 10 a.m. Following the vote, the Senate is expected to continue debate on the Thompson amendment No. 4132. The Senate will recess at 12:30 p.m. for the weekly party conferences, and upon reconvening at 2:15 p.m., Senator HELMS will be recognized to offer an amendment. Further amendments are expected to be offered and debated. Therefore, Senators can expect votes throughout the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the provisions of S. Res. 352 in further remembrance of the late Congressman HERBERT BATEMAN. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 7:52 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, September 12, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent I be given 10 minutes to speak in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I want to talk about one of the most serious issues facing the United States--the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them. I also want to talk about the legislation that Senator TORRICELLI and I have introduced--the China Nonproliferation Act--to address this growing threat. 
   The world is a more dangerous place today because key supplier countries like the People's Republic of China [PRC] continue to proliferate weapons of mass destruction to rogue states like North Korea, Iran, and Libya. 
   China has sold nuclear components and missiles to Pakistan, missile parts to Libya, cruise missiles to Iran, and shared a wide variety of sensitive technologies with North Korea. 
   Russia has provided nuclear weapons assistance to Iran, and missile technologies to North Korea. 
   North Korea has provided missile technologies to a variety of countries in the Middle East and Africa, and openly acknowledges these sales are one of its main sources of hard currency. 
   Many of these technologies are being used by rogue states to develop weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them--capabilities which are prompting many policymakers and defense experts in this country to call for the immediate deployment of a multi-tiered national missile defense system. 
   Two years ago,a bipartisan commission headed by former defense secretary Don Rumsfeld challenged the administration by concluding that rogue states like North Korea and Iran could develop an ICBM within 5 years of deciding to do so. In fact, the Commission reported that:  
   China also poses a threat to the U.S. as a significant proliferator of ballistic missiles, weapons of mass destruction and enabling technologies. It has carried out extensive transfers to Iran's solid-fueled ballistic missile program. It has supplied Pakistan with a design for a nuclear weapon and additional nuclear weapons assistance. ..... The behavior thus far of Russia and China makes it appear unlikely ..... that either government will soon effectively reduce its country's sizable transfers of critical technologies, experts, or expertise to the emerging missile powers.  
   Shortly thereafter, North Korea surprised our intelligence agencies by successfully launching a three-stage rocket--the Taepo Dong I--over Japan, demonstrating the technological know-how to hit the United States with a small warhead, and essentially confirming the Rumsfeld Commission's assertions. 
   In July 1999, the Deutch Commission, which was organized to assess the federal government's ability to address WMD proliferation, concluded that:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader and the minority leader for trying to work out these complicated matters. There is, understandably, some interrelationship. I think it is well known that we are looking for a way to get a vote on the important issue of proliferation. It should not be considered to be a trade issue. It is an issue separate and apart. Many of us believe it is extremely timely because of the trade issue, and that while we need to extend our trade relationship with China, at the same time, we need to demonstrate to them and to the world that they must do something to improve their habits in terms of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Every day, we see in some media outlet a further indication that the Chinese are intent upon continuing their proliferation habits, as long as we support Taiwan and as long as we perceive a national defense system. 
   I hope the objection is not based upon the desire by the Democratic leader to prevent a vote from happening on the issue of China's proliferation. Just as the majority leader and the Democratic leader have been working together, so have the staffs been working together across the aisle to try to bridge some of the differences on this bill. We have made changes to the bill to accommodate some of the concerns. This bill will not affect agriculture; this bill will not affect business, except in those narrow circumstances when a business may be dealing directly with a known and determined foreign proliferator. At that point, it is not too high a price to ask our American businesses not to deal with those kinds of companies. That is what this is about. 
   So now that the majority leader has set a date for a vote on PNTR, I certainly hope we will be able to rapidly reach a date prior to that when we can vote on the important issue of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Although trade, being as important as it is, it pales in comparison with the national security of this Nation. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, as we debate this bill to provide funding for the Department of the Interior in the next fiscal year, I would like to discuss an issue that is of increasing concern to me: our underinvestment in our national parks. 
   There are 379 national parks in the United States and U.S. territories, covering over 80 million acres. These parks provide Americans with an opportunity to enjoy activities such as hiking, camping, white water rafting, or horseback riding in some of the most beautiful sites in the world. The Great Smoky Mountains National Park in my home State of Tennessee is often referred to as the crown jewel of the national park system, and for good reason. 
   But one can't help but be concerned about what is happening in our parks today. I have seen first hand the problems associated with air pollution, traffic congestion, and invasive species in our parks. Folks come to the Smokies to escape the big city and breathe the clean mountain air. Unfortunately, there are too many days now when the air quality in the Smokies is worse than in major cities. Already this year, the park has recorded 13 days with unhealthy ozone levels. Who would believe that visiting a national park could be hazardous to your health? 
   Air pollution is also diminishing the experience of visitors in the park. People visit the Smokies for the magnificent mountain vistas. Unfortunately, the pollution reduces their visibility not only by affecting how far they can see from a scenic overlook, but also how well they can see. Ground level ozone washes out the bright colors of the leaves in the fall and the flowers in the spring. These air quality problems have landed the Great Smoky Mountains National Park on the list of 10 most endangered national parks compiled by the National Parks and Conservation Association. 
   Another major threat facing many of our national parks, including the Smokies, is damage from invasive species. Organisms that are not native to parks are finding their way in and are killing wildlife. Virtually all of the frasier firs on top of Klingman's Dome in the Smokies are dead. At first glance, it would appear that they were killed by fire, but that is not the case. These trees were killed by the balsam woolly adelgid which is not native to the Smokies and has no natural predator there. 
   These and similar problems afflict our entire national park system. That is why I'm pleased that the appropriations bill before us today recognizes these serious threats by providing $11 million for the National Park Service's Natural Resource Challenge. This money will help fund air and water quality studies in our parks. It will also fund efforts to address the problems caused by non-native invasive  species. I thank the Senators from Washington and West Virginia for their attention to these needs. I especially thank Senator GORTON for his leadership as chairman of this very important subcommittee. 
   I am also growing increasingly concerned that our national parks are showing the wear and tear of neglect. Each year our parks are host to more and more visitors. In 1998, almost 300 million people visited our national parks. Ten million of those visitors went to the Smokies, making it the most visited national park in the country. That is more visitors than the Grand Canyon and Yosemite combined--which rank second and third in terms of park visitation. 
   We in Tennessee and North Carolina welcome these visitors to our beautiful mountains. National parks are here to be used and enjoyed. But our parks are laboring under their popularity. One might say our parks are being loved to death. We must face up to the stresses to infrastructure that result from increased visitation. More visitors cause more wear and tear on the trails, campgrounds, and roads. Growing visitation also requires higher staffing levels in the parks since more visitors mean more stranded hikers that need to be rescued, more comfort stations that need to be cleaned, and more trash that needs to be picked up. 
   Unfortuantely, park budgets have not kept pace with increases in visitation. The National Park Service estimates that there is currently a $4.3 million maintenance backlog. Park Service staff are struggling to do more with fewer resources. 
   Fortunately, they have been able to rely on a number of organizations for help such as friends groups, the National Park Foundation and other cooperating associations. These organizations raise money to fund maintenance and educational projects within the parks. 
   I am proud that the Friends of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park is held up as the model friends group for the country. Over the last 7 years, the Friends of the Smokies has raised $6 million--$1.5 million last year alone. This money has come from donation boxes in the park, license plate sales, telethons and direct contributions. And, it is used for a variety of projects. For example, the Friends just produced a new orientation film to welcome park visitors. The Friends funded the restoration of the historic Mount Cammerer Fire Tower. And, the Friends help organize and manage volunteer projects in the park. When a team of volunteers goes out to work on a trail, it's the Friends of the Smokies that buys the materials needed to do the job. The hard work and generosity on the part of the Friends of the Smokies is critical to assisting the Park Service officials maintain our valuable natural resource. 
   Just as important as the financial contributions to our national parks are the generous donations of time. This year alone, volunteers will donate almost 75,000 hours valued at $1.1 million to run the visitor centers and help maintain trails and campgrounds in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Because the Smokies was a gift from the residents of Tennessee and North Carolina to the Federal Government, citizens living near the park have a strong sense of ownership. They want to volunteer to take care of their park. 
   Several years ago, Congress also recognized the need to increase resources to our national park system, and we passed legislation to provide the Park Service with new sources of funding for maintenance projects. This new law allows national parks to retain most of the entrance and other fees they may charge, and use that money for visitor services. Fee revenue can be used to fund maintenance projects or to pay seasonal employees, but it cannot be used to fund basic operations. This year, Smokies' fees will generate $1.9 million over and above the park's $13.2 million annual appropriated budget. 
   Fee revenue, volunteer hours, and donations are critical to keeping our parks running, but they are just not enough. Without an adequate operations budget and enough permanent full-time staff, the Park Service lacks the capability to handle the generosity of groups like the Friends of the Smokies. 
   Again, I compliment my colleagues from Washington and West Virginia for recognizing the most pressing needs of our national park system by providing a substantial increase in the Park Service's basic operations budget in this bill. The bill before us includes over $1.4 billion for the National Park Service. That's an increase of more than $80 million over FY 2000. 
   But as impressive a job as the managers have done here today, I'm sure they would both agree with me when I say that Congress still must do better for our national parks. I believe that the Federal Government has a fundamental responsibility to ensure the protection of these natural resources for the enjoyment of both the current and future generations. But we are not meeting that responsibility fully. We must provide our park officials with adequate resources to maintain the trails and campgrounds. We must give them better tools to combat threats like air pollution. 
   As Congress debates what to do with the projected budget surplus, I think we should start by determining whether government is meeting its fundamental responsibilities now. If we see that we are neglecting certain responsibilities, then we need to make fulfilling those obligations a priority. 
   I believe that increasing our investment in our national parks is a priority. I intend to work closely with my colleagues in the years to come to ensure that Congress provides the funding necessary to protect our precious natural resources for the enjoyment of my grandchildren and their grandchildren. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I thank my friend from Nevada for those comments. This is something upon which I believe we can all agree. Even those who view the role of Government to be a limited one must agree that there are certain basic obligations and functions the Federal Government has. Of course, national defense is one of them; infrastructure is one of them. Our national parks are a precious resource that we must all protect. 
   They are, as the Senator indicates, being attacked from so many different directions right now. We are taking them for granted and slowly, but surely, they are falling into disrepair, and they are being damaged environmentally. We in the Smokies have a particular problem with the weather patterns, for example. Not only do we have some old coal-fired plants in the area, but we have a weather pattern that brings the pollution in from other parts of the country that just seems to hover over that particular area. We have days where there is more pollution on top of the Smoky Mountains than there is in downtown New York City. It is an increasing problem. Hopefully, as my colleague suggests, we can  join together and do even more next year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their statements. I think they accurately state the conversations we have had. I welcome their commitment to try to work with me toward finding another vehicle in order to alleviate some of the concerns I have had. 
   I intended to offer a second-degree amendment to this amendment, but I can count the votes. The better part of valor is for me to accept the commitment and assistance from my colleagues in order to try to interject some expertise into the consideration of the MTOP level issues in the future. 
   What we are seeing with regard to this amendment is a manifestation of a discussion that is going on in this country that is very important. We obviously are leading the world in terms of high technology. We are building supercomputers that no one else has. It is natural that our people want to develop their markets and have an export market. That is important to them from an economic standpoint. Many people in the computer industry are under the impression that if they can build something, it is immediately available worldwide, internationally, by everyone. I respectfully disagree with them on that. But they are of that opinion, and they are moving aggressively in Congress and otherwise to try to raise the level of the computers they can ship without an export license. 
   Let's keep in mind, that is the issue: What is going to be shipped without a license or with a license. We are not talking about stopping any sales. We are talking about time periods and how fast computers can be sold and what can be sold with or without a license. That is one side of what is going on in the country today in this discussion. 
   The other side is that all of the statements about our capabilities and our need to market and all those kinds of things may be true. 
   But there is another side to the story, and that is the danger that sometimes is being interjected into the world by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
   We have been told in no uncertain terms by the Cox committee, and others, that the Chinese, for example, are using our technology. They are specifically using our high-performance computers to enhance their own nuclear capabilities. Potentially, they will be used against our own country. We know the Chinese are selling and supplying technology to rogue nations around the world--a big problem. That is a part of the discussion we are going to have over these next few weeks, I hope, in terms of how we address that with the Chinese. 
   So while it is important to have a viable high-tech market, and while the technological ``genie'' is out of the bottle to a great extent, there are some of us who still believe we should not abrogate all of our export control laws. And on what we are dealing with here tonight, Congress should have an adequate time to consider how much we want to raise the MTOP levels and how liberal we want to be in terms of allowing these computers to be exported--again, mind you, without a license. They can still export them at any level, theoretically. But they have to go through a license process. 
   Is the congressional review too long? Is 180 days too long? I point out that, I believe as late as a year ago--I think July of last year--while it was not in law, the practice was for the review time for Congress to take between 18 and 24 months. So 6 months kicked in just about a year ago. So we have gone from 18 to 24 months a year ago, and now Congress has 6 months. We narrowed it to 6 months now that we have to review it, when the administration decides it wants to raise the MTOP levels and become more liberal with exports. Now under this bill, we are narrowing the time further to 60 days--from 6 months to 60 days--for Congress to review the raising of a particular MTOP level. 
   I have a great problem with that. I know there is tremendous momentum in this Congress to accede to those who want Congress to have less and less a part in this process. I agree with colleagues who said Congress has not always done its due diligence, has not always used that process to its best advantage; we have sometimes sat on our hands. 
   What I am trying to do, and what I was going to do by my second-degree amendment, which I will now, with the help of colleagues, try to do separate and apart, is to say, OK, we will go down to 60 days, although I don't like it; but we will say, within that 60 days, let's have GAO take a look at it; let's have some expertise from the people who are used to analyzing these things because they don't always agree with the administration, as to what the foreign availability is or what the mass marketing for a particular component is. So why do we want to fly blindly on something that is so technical and important? We need to have GAO in this process and then give Congress just 10 days after the GAO does its work, after 50 days, to look at what GAO has come up with, and then we can act if we want to.  
   So I think it is a very compressed timeframe. But I understand the momentum for this. I hope we are not making a mistake. I hope we are not placing too much faith in an administration that I think has been entirely too lax in terms of matters of national security, our export laws, the security of our laboratories, and everything else. I hope we are not making that mistake. But I know it is going to happen now. It passed overwhelmingly in the House, and I expect it to tomorrow. I can count as well as the next person. But I am hopeful that within the next few days, as I say, we can interject into this process at least a little bit of extra deliberation by the GAO and those with the expertise to tell us what they think about a particular increase in the MTOP levels. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I yield back all time of the opponents of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for 20 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I say to the Senator from West Virginia how much I appreciate that rendition and bringing us back to a better reality here from time to time. 
   I remember the comments by that same poet who once said: 
 Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers, Little we see in nature that is ours.  
   I don't think anyone can ever say that about the senior Senator from West Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I appreciate that very much. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I rose on the floor on June 22 to address a matter of great concern to everyone, the issue of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
   A couple of years ago, I was watching late night television and ran across a seminar being conducted by former Senator Sam Nunn. Someone asked him during a question and answer period what he considered to be the greatest threat to the United States of America. He mentioned terrorism and the new emerging threat of weapons of mass destruction. 
   A short time after that, I was watching the Charlie Rose Show late one night with former Secretary of State Warren Christopher. When asked the same question, he gave the same answer: That post cold war, we have not concerned ourselves perhaps very much with some of these issues but that we should, and there are emerging threats out there. 
   I think the Senator from West Virginia is contemplating a proposal that deals with this very issue. 
   I have been specifically concerned with that issue with regard to China for a couple of reasons: One, they continue to lead the nations of the world in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, according to our intelligence community; two, because we are now getting ready to embark on the issue of permanent normal trade relations with China. 
   Many of us are free traders; many of us believe in open markets; many of us want to support that. I think the majority of the Senate certainly does. Is there not any better time, and is it not incumbent upon us in the same general timeframe and the same general debate, that we couldn't, shouldn't, consider something so vitally important to this country as the issue of our nuclear trading partner, that we are being asked to embrace in a new world regime, that sits with us on the Security Council of the United Nations? Is it too much to ask of them to cease this dangerous proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the supplying of these rogue nations with weapons of mass destruction--be they chemical, biological, or nuclear--which pose a threat to us? 
   We are considering now the issue of the national missile defense system. Many people in this Nation, I think a majority of people in this Congress, are very concerned that we have no defense against such a terrorist attack, an accidental attack, an attack by a rogue nation with weapons of mass destruction, and that we need such a missile defense. 
   One of the primary reasons we need a national missile defense system has to do with the activities of the Chinese and their supplying of rogue nations with these materials, expertise, capabilities, military parts that have nuclear capabilities which we are so concerned that, by the year of 2005, could be turned against us. Must we not consider this as we consider permanent normal trade relations? As important as trade is, is it more important than our national security? I think that question answers itself. 
   I pointed out on June 22 that the Rumsfeld Commission reported in July  of 1998 that: China poses a threat as a significant proliferator of ballistic missiles, weapons of mass destruction, and enabling technology. The commission went on to say China's behavior thus far makes it appear unlikely that it will soon effectively reduce its country's sizable transfer of critical technologies, experts, or expertise to the emerging missile powers. 
   A little later, on June 22 of this year, the Far Eastern 
   Economic Review reported:  
   Robert Einhorn, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Nonproliferation, left Hong Kong on June 11 with a small delegation bound for Beijing.  
   The article said:  
   Neither the American nor Chinese side reported this trip. Einhorn is on a delicate mission to get a commitment from Beijing not to export missile technology and components to Iran and Pakistan.  
   It went on to say:  
   ..... U.S. intelligence reports suggest that China may have begun building a missile plant in Pakistan. If true, it would be the second Chinese-built plant there.  
   If that article is indeed true, it would certainly be consistent with what we know about other Chinese activities. There is a recent report that there is growing Chinese support for Libya and their missile program. We know they have supported the Iranian missile program. We know they have supported the North Korean missile program. So those are some of the things we discussed back on June 22. 
   Let's bring ourselves up to date now. Just this last Sunday, Sunday a week, July 2, the New York Times reported:  
   American intelligence agencies have told the Clinton administration and Congress that China has continued to aid Pakistan's effort to building long-range missiles that could carry nuclear weapons, according to several officials with access to intelligence reports.  
   The story goes on to say:  
   ..... how China stepped up the shipment of specialty steels, guidance systems, and technical expertise to Pakistan ..... since 1998.  
   That is very recent activity. Shipments to Pakistan have been continued over the past 8 to 18 months, according to this story. 
   This, of course, would be in violation of the Missile Technology Control Regime to which the Chinese Government agreed to adhere. Strangely enough, weeks ago, our Secretary of State praised the Chinese for complying with the MTCR. It is pretty obvious now they are not complying. Some answers need to be forthcoming from the Secretary of State with regard to that. 
   But things are more serious than that because we now know, because of these recent developments and, perhaps, because of some of the issues we are considering in this Senate, the administration sent another envoy to the Chinese for 2 days of talks concerning some of these proliferation problems. On July 9, we got a report back from that latest trip, where our people went over there to plead with the Chinese to change their behavior at a time when we are about to consider permanent normal trade relations. We have gotten the results back. According to the New York Times on July 9, this visiting American official, who is Mr. J.D. Holum, adviser to the Secretary of State on arms control, said:  
   After 2 days of talks, the Chinese would not allay concerns about recent Chinese help for Pakistan's ballistic missile program.  
   He is quoted here as saying:  
   We raised our concern that China has provided aid to Pakistan and other countries .....  
   That is according to Mr. Holum. 
   The article goes on to say:  
   Some Chinese arms experts say that China is unlikely to promise to end exports of missile technology anytime soon because such trade, or the threat of it, gives China a bargaining chip over the scale of American weapons sold to Taiwan.  
   Apparently, what the Chinese Government is saying is that as long as we assist Taiwan--which we are determined to do--for defensive purposes against the aggression of the Chinese Government, they are going to continue to assist these outlaw nations in their offensive designs that might be targeted toward the United States. 
   That bears some serious consideration. The Chinese Government is saying if you continue to be friendly with Taiwan and assist them in defending themselves against us, we are going to continue to make the world more dangerous for you and the rest of the world by continuing to assist these nations of great concern. We have to ask ourselves: Are we willing to acquiesce to that kind of blackmail? We have a policy with regard to Taiwan. It is well stated. Are we going to withdraw our support for Taiwan, which might assist in doing something about this proliferation? I don't think so. I would certainly oppose it. I think most every Member of this body would oppose that. So you can take that option off the table. 
   What are we going to do? The other option would be to continue to sit pat, continue our policy, and see the continued proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We will try to build a missile defense system that will catch them. While they are building up over there, we will build up over here. 
   There is a third option, of course. That is to tell the Chinese Government that, yes, we will trade with you; yes, we want to engage with you; yes, we will help you see progress in human rights and other issues; yes, we acknowledge you have taken a lot of people out of poverty and opened up your markets somewhat; yes, we will do all those things, but if you continue to do things that pose a mortal threat to the United States of America, we will respond to that in an economic way. There will be consequences to you. 
   It does not have to be directly related to trade. We can do some other things that would not hurt our people. For example, the Chinese have access to our capital markets. They raise billions of dollars in our capital markets. It is free and open to them. It is not transparent at all. We don't know what they do with that money. Some people think they use it to build up their army. But Chinese interests raise billions of dollars in our capital markets. Should we allow them to continue to doing that when they are supplying these rogue nations with weapons that are a threat to us? It makes no sense at all. 
   Must we read in the paper someday that the North Koreans or the Iranians, sure enough, have a missile and have the nuclear capability of send a nuclear missile to the United States of America? 
   People say: They know they would be wiped off the face of the Earth. We could retaliate and they would never do something like that. No. 1, we made a lot of mistakes in this country by assuming other people think the same way we do. No. 2, I am not sure we are always going to be able to detect the source of a missile such as that. The United States would not likely, as some people say--having it trip off their tongue so easily--wipe a nation off the face of the Earth unless we were absolutely sure. So there is no need to go down that road. We must do something on the front end that will ameliorate the possibility of our ever getting into that situation and that condition. That is why 17 of my colleagues and I have proposed a bill called the Chinese 
   Nonproliferation Act, which basically calls for an annual assessment of the activities of the Chinese Government and Chinese Government-controlled entities within China, to see how they are doing on a yearly basis in terms of their proliferation activity. Then, if there is a finding that they continue their proliferation activity, the President has the authority to take action. 
   I believe that is the least we can do under the circumstances. Our bill has become quite controversial because many people think it complicates the issue of permanent normal trade relations with China. They do not want to do anything--No. 1, they say--to hurt our exporters. We have made changes. No one can arguably say our bill hurts U.S. exporters now. We don't want to hurt our agricultural industry. We have made changes to accommodate that concern. We are not designing this in order to hurt our agricultural industry, so that is not an issue anymore. 
   When you get right down to it, the opponents of this bill are primarily concerned about doing anything to agitate the Chinese at a time in which we are trying to get permanent normal trade relations passed. I don't think we ought to gratuitously aggravate them. But if we are not prepared to risk the displeasure of a nation that is doing things that pose a mortal threat to our national security, what are we prepared to do? 
   What is more important than that? I am not saying let's cut off trade with  them. I am not saying let's take action against them for precipitous reasons or reasons that are not well thought out. I am saying we must respond to these continued reports from the Rumsfeld Commission, from the Cox Commission, from our biennial intelligence assessments, from these reports from our own envoys coming back saying the Chinese are basically telling us to get lost. We know what they are doing, and they are apparently not even denying it anymore. And we are going to approve PNTR without even taking up this issue? 
   We are trying to get a vote on this bill. So far we have been unable to do so. I ask my colleagues to seriously consider what kind of signal we are going to be sending. We talk a lot about signals around here. I ask what kind of signal we are going to be sending to the Chinese Government, to our allies, to the rest of the world, if we are not willing to take steps to defend ourselves? A great country that is unwilling to defend itself will not be a great country forever. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, if I might please respond to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I say to Senator DOMENICI, this is a piece of legislation that is in response to the continuing array of reports and information that we have concerning the continued proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in which the Chinese are engaged. 
   As you know, we are in the process of having an extensive national missile defense system debate in this country. Much of the reason for that need is what the rogue nations are doing. Much of what the rogue nations are being supplied with is coming from the Chinese Government and Chinese governmental entities. 
   What this bill does is provide for an annual assessment. It is China specific. It is an annual assessment as to their level of proliferation activities. If any entities are engaged in those activities, there are certain responses in which our country engages to cut off those entities with regard to dual-use trade, munitions trade, access to our capital market. There is an array of things the President has to choose from to respond to that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today Senator Lieberman and I are introducing, by request, the Federal Asset Management Reform Act of 2000. This legislation is the result of the work of the General Services Administration, under the leadership of its Administrator David Barram, to modernize and reform the management, use and disposal of the Federal government's real property and surplus personal property. 
   The Federal government owns or controls over 24 million acres of land and facilities which have been acquired for use and operation by Federal agencies in support of their missions. Since 1949, the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act has provided the foundation for the management and disposal of these properties as well as for surplus personal property. This legislative proposal is intended to improve life cycle planning and management of Federal assets. 
   We are introducing this proposal today for the purpose of encouraging study and comment by all interested parties. Key participants in the current property disposal process are state and local governments, non-profit organizations and federal agencies. The Governmental Affairs Committee intends to review this legislative measure and all comments received about it to better understand what changes are desirable in the management of the Federal government's billions of dollars worth of real and surplus property. The Committee expects to follow through with further legislative action in the next Congress. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full text of the Federal Asset Management Reform Act of 2000 be printed at this point in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to be given 10 minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, we will shortly be taking up the matter of permanent normal trade relations with China. 
   Mr. President, normally, I do not think matters of trade should be encumbered by other non-trade considerations; however, in the case of China, the situation is different. Not only are we considering trade with someone other than an ally, someone other than a nation that shares our values and outlooks on life, but we are beginning a new relationship with a nation that is actively involved in activities that go against the national security of this nation, and go against the security of the entire world. China still is one of the world's leading proliferators of weapons of mass destruction. We are right now engaged in a debate in this country over a national missile defense because of the activities of certain rogue nations and the weapons of mass destruction that they are rapidly developing. They're developing those weapons, Mr. President, in large part because of the assistance they're getting from the Chinese. 
   The Rumsfeld Commission reported in July of 1998 that ``China poses a threat as a significant proliferator of ballistic missiles, weapons of mass destruction, and enabling technology. It has carried out extensive transfers to Iran's solid fuel ballistic missile programs, and has supplied Pakistan with the design for nuclear weapons and additional nuclear weapons assistance. It has even transferred complete ballistic missile systems to Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. China's behavior thus far makes it appear unlikely it will soon effectively reduce its country's sizable transfers of critical technology, experts, or expertise, to the emerging missile powers. 
   Mr. President, I speak today not to get into the middle of the PNTR debate, because that is yet to come, but because something has come to my attention that I think deserves comment. 
   Under issue cover dated June 22--today--the Far Eastern Economic Review reports this:  
   Robert Einhorn, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Nonproliferation, left Hong Kong on June 11 with a small delegation bound for Beijing. Neither the American or Chinese side reported this trip. Einhorn is on a delicate mission to get a commitment from Beijing not to export missile technology and components to Iran and Pakistan. China has agreed in principle to resume nonproliferation discussions with the U.S. in July. But Einhorn's trip has an added urgency because recent U.S. intelligence reports suggest that China may have begun building a missile plant in Pakistan. If true, it would be the second Chinese-built plant there. A senior U.S. official declined comment on the report, but said that Washington is concerned that China has resumed work on an M-11 missile plant it started building in Pakistan in 1990. Work stopped in 1996 when Pakistan, facing U.S. sanctions, pledged itself to good behavior.  
   Mr. President, if this report is true, I must say it's totally consistent with everything else the Chinese have been doing over the past several years. In summary, they have materially assisted Pakistan's missile program; they have materially assisted North Korea's missile program; they have materially assisted Libya's missile program. They have now been responsible apparently for two missile plants in Pakistan. The India-Pakistan part of the world is a nuclear tinder box. They are going after one another with tests of missiles with the Indians saying they're responding to the Pakistanis' tests. The Pakistanis in turn are developing 
   capabilities almost solely dependent on the Chinese. All of this activity by China is in clear violation of the Missile Technology Control Regime, which they have agreed to adhere to. In addition, they have assisted in the uranium and plutonium production in Pakistan. This is in violation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. They have been of major assistance to the Iranian missile program. They have supplied guidance systems to the Iranians. They have helped them test flight their Shahab-3 missile. They have now successfully conducted a test flight of that missile. They have supplied raw materials and equipment for North Korea's missile program. Plus, in addition, they have supplied cruise missiles to Iran, and they have supplied chemicals and equipment and a plant to Iran to help them produce chemical weapons. 
   Now, all of these have to do with reports, most have to do with intelligence reports, that we have received in open session before Congressional committees year after year after year where the Chinese have promised that they would do better, promised that they would adhere to international regimes and norms of conduct, and they have consistently violated them. We cannot turn a blind eye to these factors as we consider PTNR. 
   What is to happen to a nation that will not protect itself against obvious threats to its national security? That's why, Mr. President, we have introduced a bill that will establish an annual review mechanism that assesses China's behavior with regard to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. And if it is determined that they continue this conduct, we will have responses. They will be WTO-compliant; for the most part they will not be trade-related. They address things like Chinese access to our capital markets. They now are raising billions of dollars in our capital markets, and there's no transparency. We do not know what the monies are going for. We know precious little about the companies except that they are basically controlled by the Chinese government. Many people feel like the money is going back to enhance their military and other activities such as that. There needs to be transparency. They need to be told that if they continue with this pattern of making the world less safe, creating a situation where we even need to have to worry about a national missile defense system, assisting these rogue nations with the capability of hitting us with nuclear and biological and chemical weapons, that there's going to be a response by this country. It will be measured; it will be calculated; it will be careful; it will be tiered-up in severity based upon the level of their activities. And this is what we're going to be considering in conjunction with the PTNR debate. 
   I thought it was important that I bring this latest information concerning the Chinese activities in building apparently another missile plant in Pakistan, which is a nuclear tinder box, even at the time--even at the time--that we have under consideration permanent normal trade relations with them. That shows no respect for us; it shows no respect for the international regimes which seek to control such things, and it is time we got their attention. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Madam President, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself as chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee and Senator LIEBERMAN, the committee's ranking minority member. This amendment deals with the important issue of information security at the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies. The amendment is essentially the same as S. 1993, a bill reported by our committee this past April. 
   Senator LIEBERMAN and I introduced the original S. 1993 last November as the result of the considerable time spent by the Governmental Affairs Committee last Congress examining the state of Federal government information systems. Numerous Governmental Affairs Committee hearings and General Accounting Office reports uncovered and identified systemic failures of government information systems which highlighted our nation's vulnerability to computer attacks--from international and domestic terrorists to crime rings to everyday hackers. 
   Report after report, agency after agency, we learned that our nation's underlying information infrastructure is riddled with vulnerabilities which represent severe security flaws and risks to our national security, public safety and personal privacy. 
   In fact, GAO believes the problems in the government's information technology systems to be so severe that it has put government-wide information security on its list of ``high-risk'' government programs--programs which are most vulnerable to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement. 
   For example, GAO told us: 
   That unknown and unauthorized individuals were gaining access to highly sensitive unclassified information at the Department of Defense; 
   That weaknesses in IRS computer security controls continue to place IRS systems and taxpayer data ``at serious risk to both internal and external attack''; 
   That ``pervasive, serious weaknesses jeopardize State Department operations''; 
   That ``many NASA mission-critical systems face serious risks''; 
   That flight safety is jeopardized by weak computer security practices at FAA; and 
   That, based on the most recent review of the government's 24 largest agencies, computer security weaknesses place critical government operations, such as national defense, tax collection, law enforcement and benefit distribution, at risk. 
   At our hearings, we learned from the Director of Central Intelligence, George Tenet, that information warfare or cyberterrorism has the potential to deal a crippling blow to our national security if strong measures are not taken to counter it. Potential threats range from national intelligence and military organizations, terrorists, criminals, industrial competitors, hackers, and disgruntled or disloyal insiders. 
   Director Tenet stated that several countries, including Russia and China, have government-sponsored information warfare programs with both offensive and defensive applications. These countries see information warfare as a way of leveling the playing field against a stronger military power, such as the U.S. 
   We learned from the Director of the National Security Agency, General Minihan, that severe deficiencies exist in our ability to respond to a coordinated attack on our national infrastructure and information systems. 
   We heard from agents of the Social Security Administration's Office of Inspector General who described how computer crimes were committed by SSA employees. This demonstrated the danger of the ``inside threat'' to agencies that do not adequately monitor and limit access to computer information by their own employees. 
   And finally, we heard from reformed hacker, Kevin Mitnick, and learned of his ability to crack into systems without ever touching a computer. He told us that, even if we did everything 
   else right, without strong personnel security, nothing is safe. He described how he successfully tricked the employees of a multi-national company into giving him pass codes to the company's security access devices. He said ``The human side of computer security is easily exploited and constantly overlooked.'' 
   And, yet, even with evidence from all of these various experts on how information systems should be managed to prevent against attacks, year after year, we continue to receive reports detailing significant security breaches at Federal agencies. 
   The one thing that came through loud and clear is that at the core of the government problems is the absence of effective management. GAO told us ``Poor security program planning and management continue to be fundamental problems ..... What needs to emerge is a coordinated and comprehensive management strategy.'' 
   To identify potential management solutions, we asked GAO to study the management practices of organizations known for their superior security programs. When GAO looked at eight organizations--most of which were private companies--GAO found that these organizations implemented information security policies on an ongoing basis through a coordinated management framework. 
   Agencies clearly must do more than establish programs and set management goals--agencies and the people responsible for managing information  systems in those agencies must be held accountable for their actions. 
   That is what Senator LIEBERMAN and I intend with this amendment. The primary objective of the amendment is to address the management challenges associated with operating in the current interdependent computing environment. It will provide a coordinated and comprehensive management approach to protecting information. 
   For example, the bill would: 
   Vest overall government accountability within the highest levels of the Executive Branch [Deputy Director for Management at the Office of Management and Budget]; 
   Create specific management rules for agency heads, such as requiring agency-wide security programs; 
   Require agencies to have an annual independent evaluation of their information security programs and practices; 
   Focus on the importance of training programs and government-wide incident response handling. 
   Our amendment reflects changes made to S. 1993 based on comments received from our colleagues in the Senate and working with the Department of Defense and others in the intelligence community, the Office of Management and Budget, the agency Inspectors General, and industry. 
   We urge support of our amendment and believe that, through continued vigorous oversight, we will drive the Federal government to focus on improving its computer security deficiencies. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that government information technology systems are secure and that the information within those systems is protected from further attacks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself as chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee and Senator LIEBERMAN, the Committee's ranking minority member, and Senators WARNER and LEVIN, the chairman and ranking minority member of the Armed Services Committee. Senator LIEBERMAN and I thank the Armed Services chairman and ranking member for their cooperation and assistance in preparing this amendment which will benefit not only the procurement process within the Department of Defense, but other agencies across the Federal government as well. 
   The amendment which we offer today began as a request from the administration and others to include additional procurement-related reforms to those enacted over the past several years and those already included in S. 2549. Our amendment includes language which would (1) express a governmentwide preference for performance-based service contracting; (2) move the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) Board out of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, making it a separate office within the Office of Management and Budget, and conform the delegation of authority levels relating to the CAS with those for the Truth in Negotiations Act; (3) extend the authority of certain pilot programs under the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996; (4) prohibit the use of mandatory minimum educational and experience requirements on performance-based service contracts and certain other contracts; and (5) ensure that the implementing regulations  of the Prompt Payment Act treat partial payments on contracts for services as periodic payments covered by the Act. I ask unanimous consent that a joint statement of sponsors explaining the amendment be placed in the RECORD immediately following my statement. This statement represents the consensus view of the sponsors as to the meaning and intent of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise to offer an amendment along with a bipartisan group of Senators, including Senator BINGAMAN, Senator VOINOVICH, Senator KENNEDY, Senator DEWINE, Senator REID, Senator THURMOND, Senator BRYAN, Senator FRIST, Senator MURRAY, Senator MURKOWSKI, Senator HARKIN, and Senator STEVENS. 
   Mr. President, watching President Clinton's summit meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin last weekend, I think we were all reminded of how far our two nations have come over the past decade, since President Reagan implored President Gorbachev to ``tear down (the Berlin) Wall,'' and President Bush presided over its destruction. While dangerous new threats have emerged, the Cold War that dominated the politics of our security for four decades is over, and the United States won. We should be proud of that victory and we should never forget the strength and resolve through which it was achieved. 
   But it has become clear in recent months that that victory came at a high price for some of those who were most responsible for producing it. I am talking about workers in our nuclear weapons facilities run by the Department of Energy or their contractors. We now have evidence that, in at least some instances, the federal government that they had dedicated themselves to serving put these workers in harm's way without their knowledge. 
   I first became concerned about this issue three years ago when my hometown newspaper, the Nashville Tennessean, published a series of stories describing a pattern of unexplained illnesses in the Oak Ridge, Tennessee area. Many of the current and former Oak Ridge workers profiled in the stories believed that their illnesses were related to their service at the Department of Energy site. In 1997, I asked the Director of the Centers for Disease Control to send a team to Oak Ridge to assess the situation and to try to determine if what we were seeing there was truly unique. Unfortunately, in the end, the CDC did not take a broad enough look at the situation to really answer the questions that had been raised. 
   And that, of course, has been a pattern at Oak Ridge and at many DOE sites over the years. Countless health studies have been done, some on very narrow populations and some on larger ones, some showing some correlations and some not able to reach any conclusions at all. The data is mixed, some of it is flawed, and we are left with a situation that is confusing and from which it is very difficult to draw any definite conclusions. 
   And yet, there is a growing realization that there are illnesses among current and former DOE workers that logic tells us are related to their service at these weapons sites. For example, hundreds of current and former workers in the DOE complex have been diagnosed with Chronic Beryllium Disease. Many more have so-called ``beryllium sensitivity,'' which often develops into Chronic Beryllium Disease. The only way to contract either of these conditions is to be exposed to beryllium powder. The only entities that use beryllium in that form are the Department of Energy and the Department of Defense. 
   And there are other examples, perhaps less clear cut, but certainly worthy of concern. Uranium, plutonium, and a variety of heavy metals found in people's bodies. Anecdotes about hazardous working conditions where people were unprotected against both exposures they knew were there and exposures of which they were not aware. It's time for the federal government to stop automatically denying any responsibility and face up to the fact that it appears as though it made at least some people sick. 
   The question now is: what do we do about it? And how do we make sure it never happens again? 
   This amendment attempts to answer the first of those two questions. It would set up a program, administered by the Department of Labor, to provide compensation to employees who are suffering from chronic beryllium disease, or from a radiation-related cancer that is determined to likely have been caused by exposures received in the course of their service at a DOE facility. It would also provide a mechanism for employees suffering from exposures to hazardous chemicals and other toxic substances in the workplace to gain access to state workers' compensation benefits, which are generally denied for such illnesses at present. 
   Mr. President, our amendment takes a science-based approach. It is not a blank check. It does not provide benefits to anyone and everyone who worked at a DOE facility who has taken ill. 
   In the case of beryllium, we can say with certainty that if someone has chronic beryllium disease and they worked around beryllium powder, their disease is work-related; there is no other way to get it. 
   The same is not true of cancer, of course. A physician cannot look at a tumor and say with certainty that it was caused by exposure to radiation, or by smoking, or by a genetic disposition, or by any other factor. However, we do know that radiation in high doses has been linked to certain cancers, and we now know that some workers at DOE facilities were exposed to radiation, often with inadequate protections. 
   What this amendment does is employ a mechanism developed by scientists at the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute to determine whether a worker's cancer is at least as likely as not related to exposures received in the course of their employment at a DOE facility. The model takes into account the type of cancer, the dose received, the worker's age at the time of exposure, sex, lifestyle factors such as whether the worker smoked, and other relevant factors. 
   In many, if not most, cases, it should be possible to determine with a sufficient degree of accuracy the radiation dose a particular worker or group of workers received. However, in some cases--because the Department of Energy kept inadequate or incomplete records, altered some of its records, and even tampered with the dosimetry badges that workers were supposed to wear--it may not be possible to estimate with any degree of certainty the radiation dose a certain worker received. For these workers, who are really the victims of DOE's bad behavior, our amendment provides an expedited track to compensation for a specified list of radiation-related cancers. 
   Mr. President, the Governmental Affairs Committee, which I chair, held a  hearing on this issue back in March. We heard testimony from several workers from Oak Ridge, Tennessee and Piketon, Ohio who are suffering from devastating illnesses as a result of their service to our country. And of course, it is not just the workers who are affected--it is their entire family that suffers emotionally, financially, and even physically. 
   In the end, we must remember that these workers were helping to win the cold war, to defend our Nation and protect our security. They were patriotic and proud of the work that they were doing. If the Federal Government made mistakes that jeopardized their health and safety, then we need to do what we can to make it right. That is what this amendment would do. I want to thank the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator WARNER, for his support, as well as Senator LEVIN. I urge the rest of my colleagues to support it as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, Senator LIEBERMAN and I are today introducing the Presidential Transition Act of 2000 on behalf of ourselves and Senators AKAKA, DURBIN, LEVIN, and VOINOVICH. The ability of a President-elect to effectively transition from campaigning to governing is obviously of critical importance and this legislation is designed to initiate much needed improvements in the process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill, the China Nonproliferation Act, which I now send to the desk on behalf of myself and Senator TORRICELLI, as well as the following original cosponsors: Senators COLLINS, DEWINE, INHOFE, KYL, SANTORUM, and SPECTER. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I now ask for the bill's second reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I didn't hear the majority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask for the bill's second reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-5-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, my distinguished colleague from Virginia and I direct the distinguished Managers to a matter that relates to a revenue raising provision that was considered in the conference on the Trade and Development Act of 2000, but ultimately was not included in the final agreement. The revenue raising provision limited the non-accrual experience method of accounting. 
   The related matter is the application of the formula in the Treasury Regulations on the non-accrual experience method of accounting to qualified personal service providers. 
   The formula contained in Temp. Reg. Section 1.448-2T does not clearly reflect the amount of income that, based on experience, will not be collected by many qualified personal service providers, especially for those where significant time elapses between the rendering of the service and a final determination that the account will not be collected. Providers of qualified personal services should not be subject to a formula that requires the payment of taxes on receivables that will not be collected. 
   To this end, we believe the Treasury Secretary should amend the temporary regulations to provide a more accurate determination for such qualified personal service providers of the amount to be excluded from income that, based on the taxpayer's experience, will not be collected. In amending such regulations, the Secretary should consider providing flexibility with respect to the formula used to compute the amount of the exclusion to address the different factual situations of taxpayers. 
   Do the distinguished Managers agree with our view of the temporary regulations and the action the Treasury Secretary should take? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased that today the Senate has passed by unanimous consent the ``Truth in Regulating Act.'' This legislation would support Congressional oversight to ensure that important regulatory decisions are efficient, effective, and fair. 
   The foundation of the ``Truth in Regulating Act'' is the right of Congress and the people we serve to know about important regulatory decisions. Through the General Accounting Office, which serves as Congress' eyes and ears, this legislation will help us get access to the cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, and other key information underlying important regulatory proposals. So, in a real sense, this legislation not only gives people the right to know; it gives them the right to see--to see how the government works, or doesn't. GAO will be responsible for providing an evaluation of the analysis underlying a proposed regulation, which will enable us to communicate better with the agency up front. It will help us to ensure that the proposed regulation ultimately is sensible and consistent with Congress' intent. It will help improve the quality of important regulations. This will contribute to the success of programs the public values and improve public confidence in the Federal Government, which is a real concern today. 
   Under the 3-year pilot project established by this legislation, a chairman or ranking member of a committee with legislative or general oversight jurisdiction, such as Governmental Affairs, may request the GAO to provide an independent evaluation of the agency regulatory analysis for any proposed economically significant rule. The Comptroller General shall submit a report no later than 180 calendar days after a committee request is received. The Comptroller General's evaluation of the rule shall include the following: an evaluation of the agency's analysis of the potential benefits of the rule; an evaluation of the agency's analysis of the potential costs of the rule; an evaluation of the agency's analysis of alternative approaches as well as of any cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, federalism assessment, or other analysis prepared by the agency or required for the rule; and a summary of the results of the evaluation and the implications of those results. 
   Mr. President, it is my hope that the ``Truth in Regulating Act'' will encourage Federal agencies to make better use of modern decisionmaking tools, such as benefit-cost analysis and risk assessment. Currently, these important tools often are viewed simply as options--options that aren't used as much or as well as they should be. Over the years, the Governmental Affairs Committee has reviewed and developed a voluminous record showing that our regulatory process is not working as well as intended and is missing important opportunities to achieve more cost-effective regulation. In April 1999, I chaired a hearing in which we heard testimony on the need for this proposal. The General Accounting Office has done important studies for Governmental Affairs and other committees showing that agency practices--in cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, federalism assessments, and in meeting transparency and disclosure requirements of laws and executive orders--need significant improvement. Many other authorities support these findings. All of us benefit when government performs well and meets the needs of the people it serves. 
   A lot of effort and collaboration went into this legislation, which I think is why the Senate can now approve it unanimously. S. 1198 was originally the ``Congressional Accountability for Regulatory Information Act of 1999,'' sponsored by Senator Richard SHELBY with Senators LOTT and BOND. I sponsored S. 1244, the ``Truth in Regulating Act of 1999,'' with Senators LINCOLN, VOINOVICH, KERREY, BREAUX, LANDRIEU, INHOFE, STEVENS, BENNETT, ROBB, HAGEL, and ROTH. We synthesized these two similar bills, and I negotiated certain changes and clarifications with JOE LIEBERMAN, the Ranking Member of the Governmental Affairs Committee. On November 3, 1999, the negotiated changes were offered as a Thompson/Lieberman substitute amendment to S. 1198, and the bill was reported by the Governmental Affairs Committee by voice vote. Afterwards, I worked on clarifications with Senator LEVIN. I thank my colleagues for pulling together to get the job done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. That's right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to acknowledge the historical significance of April 30th to the State of Tennessee and the Nation. Casey Jones, a legendary Tennessee railroad engineer, made history when his engine collided with another train on April 30, 1900. Casey's infamous ride and his selfless actions to save the lives of innocent bystanders have been lauded in folk music and drama throughout the past century. It is in his memory and the spirit of his efforts that I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Casey Jones' bravery and heroism. 
   Americans have been fascinated by the life of Casey Jones not merely for his heroism but also for his personification of the American dream. Casey's legendary life is a universal tale, and one that was guided by the foundations of this great nation: diligence, perseverance, determination, and sacrifice. Casey began as a cub operator for the railroads, then worked as a fireman, and eventually became an engineer in 1891, an accomplishment that was rarely seen in those days. He moved his family anywhere he could find employment, but he never neglected his role as a caring father and devoted husband.  Casey had a reputation as a trusted and capable engineer, and he soon found himself in charge of regularly scheduled passenger trains. 
   On the night of April 29, 1900, Casey departed Memphis aboard Engine 382 with six passenger cars one hour and thirty-five minutes late. Protocol demanded that engineers make their arrival time regardless of the tardiness of their departure. Casey was renowned throughout the region for his ability to make time, and he was doing an excellent job until he arrived at Vaughn Station, only eleven miles from his final destination. While attempting to maintain his scheduled arrival, Casey missed a flag signal warning that a freight train was still on the tracks ahead of him. Casey's engine collided with the caboose, but instead of abandoning his engine as instructed, he stayed behind in the hope that the lives of his passengers could be saved. Due to Casey's heroic attempts to stop and slow the train, none of Casey's passengers were injured and he was the only one killed in the crash. 
   Throughout this year, Casey Jones' hometown of Jackson, Tennessee, will celebrate the centennial of his gallant ride and recognize his contributions to American history. The events will culminate on the anniversary of the crash with a celebration sponsored by the Casey Jones Village, the Casey Jones Home and Railroad Museum, and the City of Jackson. I encourage everyone to take part in these events and remember the legacy of Casey Jones--an American folk hero.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I want to address the pending so-called victims' rights constitutional amendment. 
   There is no question but that there are instances when victims of crimes in this country are not heard as they should be heard. Our criminal justice system does not work perfectly. But these duties are given to local judges and local district attorneys. They are elected officials. In most cases, they are responsible to the people in their jurisdictions. It is in their interest to make sure victims are treated appropriately. 
   Certainly, in most cases, the defendants are not the ones who have the public support on their side. It is certainly the victims. In most cases, it is in the interest of those charged with the responsibility of notifying victims of proceedings in court and treating them as they should be treated in carrying out those responsibilities. 
   Having said that, we must acknowledge that some things slip through the cracks. We have a constitutional amendment that is proposed basically to cover those instances when these local officials let things slip through the cracks and victims are not notified of court dates or sentencing or parole hearings. The sentiment is understandable, but if we look a bit closer, we have to conclude that a constitutional amendment to address this problem is not the way to go. It is constitutional overkill, to say the least. 
   All 50 States have recognized we can do better in terms of victims, we can notify them when important things happen with regard to the trial of a defendant, and all 50 States have passed legislation, constitutional amendments, or both, to address this problem. 
   Even still, we in Washington, DC, say we are going to pass a constitutional amendment, in effect mandating--an unfunded mandate at that--mandating these States behave in certain ways to take care of this problem. 
   People say: State laws and State constitutions still do not always work. There are still some cases where people are not notified, even though the State constitution and the State statute require it. A constitutional amendment will, in some way, solve that problem.  
   I suggest there is no reason to believe whatsoever that in individual cases where this problem still persists, a Federal constitutional amendment will do any better than a State constitutional amendment will do in ensuring those rights. 
   I believe this amendment will interject complexity into the judicial process, will cause increased litigation, and will actually have the effect of harming victims more than helping victims. The primary interest of a victim of a crime is to make sure a guilty defendant is, in fact, found guilty and properly punished. This constitutional amendment will make the procedure by which the DA's around the country are trying to prosecute these defendants more complex, more costly, more time consuming in many respects, and ultimately will harm the very end in which the victim is most interested, and that is seeing justice done and a guilty defendant found guilty by our court system. 
   This constitutional amendment gives nine new rights to a new category of people. The Constitution sets out our form of government. The Bill of Rights basically is restrictions on the power of that Government. It tells the Government things they cannot do because we have been mindful of the down sides of an all-powerful federal government. We have set forth specific things the Government may not do toward individuals. That has usually been the purpose of amendments to our Constitution; that is, again, limiting the Government in what they can do with regard to the 
   individual. This constitutional amendment creates nine new rights on behalf of a new category of people; that is, so-called victims. 
   It has taken, in some cases, 200 years, or thereabouts, to have our courts pass on the issues that have come about because of the wording of our Constitution and the wording of the Bill of Rights--what is a reasonable and unreasonable search and seizure, for example. 
   This will, in language that is more lengthy than most of the amendments in the Bill of Rights, create additional complexity and raise additional questions that can only be resolved by courts of law. It will be many years before issues as to how this works are resolved. Who is a victim, how do you define a victim? For example, suppose we have a battered woman who is on trial for stabbing her husband. What if she is the defendant? What if the husband was, in fact, attacking her? Who is the victim in that case? The reasonable notice victims are supposed to get to court proceedings, it sounds good on its face, but what is reasonable notice? 
   We have hundreds and hundreds of cases of trying to decide what is reasonable. 
   In another context, what if a victim is not notified of a court proceeding on time? Or what if they say they are not but perhaps they have been? They may come in and say: This proceeding you have just finished, I did not get notice of it. 
   The district attorney may say: Yes, we did give you notice. 
   They may say: No, you did not. 
   The district attorney may say: Yes, we did. 
   They may say: It was not reasonable notice. 
   The prosecutor may say: We gave you so many days. 
   All of these issues ultimately will have to be decided by a court that should be devoting its attention to the proceedings in the case, along with the district attorneys devoting their attention to prosecuting the defendant and not having these collateral issues making their job that much more difficult. 
   To understand the potential mischief of this constitutional amendment, I think you have to really understand our system and the way it is set up under the Constitution. 
   The Constitution was mindful of the inherent problems with a centralized government. Our founding forefathers' experience with a powerful government, with a king, led them to decide we would have a federal system whereby the States would have certain rights. They decided against a national police state. We have certain defined Federal responsibilities with regard to law enforcement. But there is no inherent police authority in the Constitution for the Federal Government. The basic police authority is out in the States. We do not want a national police force in this country or a centralized policing authority for every kind of crime that might occur. Murder, robbery, rape, burglary--those are crimes that are handled at the State level. 
   Mr. President, 95 percent of the offenses in this country are prosecuted at the State level, not the Federal level. That is not the Federal Government's business. Absent the relatively few truly Federal criminal cases that we have, these State offenses are prosecuted at the State level. They are prosecuted by district attorneys and assistant district attorneys all over the country. They are given a good deal of discretion as to how they handle these cases. 
   Mind you, in most cases these people are elected officials in their local communities. They have every reason to want to do the right thing. They take an oath to uphold the law. They have an interest in making sure everybody is treated fairly. It does not always happen, but it is a system we are dealing with here. We cannot address every particular instance that might come along. It is a system with which we are concerned. 
   This is our system. District attorneys decide when to plea bargain. District attorneys have to decide how strong their case is. Only they will know how strong their case is, in making a decision whether to accept a plea bargain. 
   Sometimes, when you have multiple defendants, district attorneys have to make a decision to make a deal with one defendant for more lenience in exchange for testimony against another defendant. All of these are discretionary things that in our system we give local district attorneys the right to do. 
   It is basically a system involving two parties; that is, the State, or the people, on the one hand, and the criminal defendants on the other. 
   What this constitutional amendment would do is change that whole system in many material respects. Instead of having a two-party system, where you have a prosecutor, or the State, or the people, and a criminal defendant, you would now have three parties. You would have the prosecutor, the defendant, and the victim. 
   At every meaningful stage of the criminal trial, you would have all of these three parties vying for the court's attention to have their interests expressed. It is complicated enough, as anybody who has ever been a prosecutor, an assistant U.S. attorney at the Federal level or assistant district attorney, can tell you. 
   It is complicated enough when you just have two parties. You are trying to do the right thing. You are trying to prosecute the case. For the person who you believe is guilty, who has been indicted, you are going to bring them to trial. The defendant has not been convicted yet, but you believe they are guilty or you would not be prosecuting them. But you also know the limitations of your case. 
   You also know how many other defendants there are out there. You also know whether or not this guy you have before you is a small fry or a big fish. You also know there might be a chance of getting to someone bigger. 
   All those kinds of things you know are very complicated, very difficult. The defendants file motions for continuances. The defendants file motions to suppress evidence, if there is a search warrant involved. There are motions to dismiss and all those kinds of things. 
   Here we come along with this constitutional amendment and inject a third party into the process, third parties who certainly have an interest in the outcome, third parties who are allowed to attend, third parties who want to see that justice is done. But a constitutional amendment would not just say, let's give these third parties these rights, let's try to do them right, let's try to make sure they have their voices heard; we would, by amendment, put this in the Constitution of the United States, just like the first amendment on free speech or the fifth amendment on due process or the sixth amendment on the right to counsel. 
   We would elevate the rights of a victim, with whom we are all sympathetic, up there with the prosecutor and the defense in trying to juggle all of this business of giving notice and having a right to be in the courtroom at every stage of the game. The judge is going to have to decide whether or  not notice has been given correctly at all the right times, whether or not the right people are in the courtroom. All this new complexity injected in an already complex system. 
   As well meaning as it is, I think the result of it is going to be, as I said, more complexity, more litigation for people who believe the Constitution has not been followed, that they have not been given the right kind of notice, or they were late for court and they did not get to sit in the courtroom, or something of that nature. It is going to wind up hurting the ultimate interest of victims more than helping. 
   Under the constitutional amendment, the victim, as we would ultimately define a victim--as I said, it is not going to be that easy in many cases--would have a right to come in and object to a deal the district attorney might want to make. 
   Only the district attorney may know certain information. For example, let's say there is a gang involved and you have one cooperative witness. When the victims come in and object to the deal, the district attorney cannot stand up and say, this is the reason we are doing this, because everybody else would hear it. It would compromise possibly another case. 
   Or if the victim comes in and objects to a plea bargain with a particular defendant, the district attorney cannot get up and say, the reason we did this, Your Honor, is we really do not have much of a chance, and we are lucky to get this. He cannot do that because he may have to, in fact, go to trial. As happens sometimes, the judge is sympathetic and says: We agree with the victim. We are not going to accept this deal. 
   The district attorney is sitting there, unable to explain it fully on the one hand and then, on the other, having to go to trial, and in some cases, when in States that have such rules, has gone to trial and actually lost the case. So the attorney, instead of getting some punishment for a guilty defendant, has actually had to go to trial and at the trial, you have to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt--a high standard of proof--and the defendant walks because they were unable to make the deal that they were trying to make. 
   Under this amendment, there is a provision that is extremely troublesome; that is, that it becomes a constitutional right for a victim to be in court at all times during the proceeding. In most cases, in just about all States at one time, it was the rule. In fact, they just call it the rule. Every lawyer knows when you are trying a case, you say: Your Honor, I would like to impose the rule. When that happens, all of the other witnesses leave the courtroom because you don't want your witnesses to be hearing other witnesses testify. It might tailor their testimony. If somebody on your side of the case is testifying a certain way about how something happened, it makes sense that it is not in the interest of justice to have the other witnesses sitting there listening to that so when they get on the witness stand, they are not tempted to tailor their testimony and avoid any contradictions that the other side might take advantage of. It is kind of a horn book procedure. 
   What this amendment would do would say that the victim could sit in the courtroom and listen to all of the other witnesses testify. If the prosecutor decided to put the victim on last, they could listen to every one of the witnesses testify before the victim in the courtroom took the stand. That goes against experience and common sense and common practice for about 200 years in this country. We have to keep in mind that at this stage of the game, this defendant has not been convicted of anything. As angry as we might be at the defendant or as much as we think he might be guilty, we have to remember he hasn't been convicted of anything. In this country, everybody gets a fair trial. 
   If one of our loved ones was accused of something and we thought the accuser had their own reasons for accusing our loved one and we saw them sitting in the courtroom listening to all the witnesses talk about exactly how this happened and exactly how that happened and then they took the stand and kind of melded all the testimony together to make it all consistent and wrap it up in one big bow, I think we would be concerned about that. The trial judge at least ought to have the discretion of making a determination as to who sits in the courtroom and who does not. The Federal Government does not have any business micromanaging the trial of these lawsuits in every general sessions court in every little town in the country. That is what this constitutional amendment would do. 
   It would upset the balance we have always had in this country of a prosecutor, a defendant, tried in a State court with local rules. There have always been constitutional provisions the States have to abide by--there is no question about that--free speech, search and seizure, all of that, but we don't have a unitary government, we have a system of federalism whereby States decide these local cases and State judges make those decisions. We come along with a constitutional amendment that creates nine new rights, about 2 1/2 pages of new Constitution, and goes totally away from the concept that we have had for 200 years in this country, the concept of federalism. 
   I think this proposal is another step down the road toward a Federal takeover of our criminal justice system. For most of America's history, Federal involvement in criminal law was limited to national issues. Yet in this age of mass media and saturation coverage, Congress and the White House are ever eager to pass Federal criminal laws. Chief Justice Rehnquist has said this. To 
   appear responsive to every highly publicized societal ill or sensational crime, the Congress acts in these areas and creates more and more Federal crimes out of what should be State and local offenses. 
   We have reached the point where nobody really knows how many Federal crimes now exist. Nobody can really calculate them, but we keep piling them on, more and more. We have undoubtedly surpassed an old estimate that we had awhile back of 3,000. A hearing I chaired last year reviewed an American Bar Association task force report from leaders in the criminal justice system who counseled restraint in federalizing crime control. 
   Justice Brandeis once said:  
   Denial of the right to experiment may be fraught with serious consequences to the Nation. It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system that a single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country.  
   That is the system we have. States address these issues in different ways. Why should we, as the Federal Government, impose one size fits all on a populace that is not in agreement on exactly what that should be? Why should the States not have the leeway to do what States have always done in our system? 
   Last but not least, this is a solution looking for a problem for the most part. Every State in the Union has addressed this issue. We have become more mindful that in some cases victims are not getting the attention they need. So every State in the Union has taken a look at this. We think the system works out pretty well. For the most part, our public officials are doing what they are supposed to do. 
   Some States have gone so far as to change their constitutions. Some States in the middle have passed legislation. But every State, one way or another, has addressed this, doing what States are supposed to be doing, responding to the demands of their local citizens. My State of Tennessee changed its constitution with regard to this. There is absolutely no need for us to federalize this particular area of criminal law. 
   Finally, my primary concern, besides the ones of upsetting our constitutional framework and system that we have enjoyed in this country for so long, is that--because of the complexity, because of the increased litigation and problems that we can't even anticipate now with a three-party procedure instead of a two-party procedure, questions that will have to be resolved by courts not knowing what kind of delays all this is going to produce and messing up our system and so forth--we will wind up in many cases hurting a victim's interests more than we will help them. As I said from the outset, the victim's primary interest is to make sure that a defendant who is guilty in fact be found guilty in  a fair, efficient way that is uncomplicated, uncluttered, and that does not go on forever. 
   Therefore, I urge that we reject this constitutional amendment. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, Governor Don Sundquist of the State of Tennessee has proclaimed April 16-22, 2000, as ``National Association of Retired Federal Employees Week'' in order to focus attention on the many accomplishments of Tennessee's retired Federal employees. In recognition of the important public service performed by Federal retirees, I ask my colleagues to join Governor Sundquist and me in acknowledging the contributions retired Federal employees have made to this Nation and their continued dedication to our communities. 
   Beginning in 1882, a non-partisan civil service system was established granting Federal employees the protections of a merit system, eliminating the spoils system and basing Federal employment decisions on merit rather than political connection. It is in this spirit that Federal employees, over the course of almost 120 years, have served the public interest. Their professional lives have been dedicated to performing and carrying out the responsibilities of the Federal Government. 
   In an effort to improve the civil service, and in recognition of civil servants' efforts on behalf of the Federal Government, Congress enacted in 1920 the first comprehensive employer-sponsored retirement plan - the Civil Service Retirement System. This system has served the country well since then and its successor, the Federal Employee Retirement System, serves as a  benchmark in evaluating pension and retirement plans. 
   As the chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, I can attest to the effectiveness of NARFE members in making the case for equitable retirement and health benefits for the more than two million federal retirees and their survivors. 
   My State of Tennessee is home to more than 37,000 Federal retirees. These folks, like all federal retirees, served their country through their commitment to public service. Federal retirees deserve our Nation's thanks for the dedication they have shown. I hope all my colleagues will join me today saluting Federal retirees for a job well done.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 10 a.m. on Wednesday, April 26. I further ask unanimous consent that on Wednesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, tomorrow morning when the Senate convenes, it is expected that the veto message on the nuclear waste bill will arrive. Under the rule, when the Senate receives the veto message, the Senate will immediately begin debate on overriding the President's veto. It is hoped that an agreement can be made with regard to debate time on this important legislation. 
   The cloture motion on the substitute amendment to the marriage penalty tax bill is still pending. That vote will occur immediately following the adoption of the motion to proceed to the victims' rights resolution. Therefore, a few votes could occur tomorrow afternoon or evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order following the remarks of Senator DORGAN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce the Government for the 21st Century Act, a bill to establish a commission to bring the structure and functions of our Government in line with the needs of our Nation in the new century. This bipartisan legislation was the result of work done by the Governmental Affairs Committee last Congress and is virtually identical to S. 2623, 105th Congress. The bill has been carefully crafted to address not just what our Government should look like, but the more fundamental question of what it should do. 
   Clearly, the time has come to take a comprehensive and fresh look at what the Federal Government does and how it goes about doing it. Despite these good economic times, polls repeatedly show that Americans have little trust or confidence in the Federal Government. They want the Federal Government to work, but they don't think that it does. 
   Unfortunately, our citizens have ample reason for concern. The Federal Government of today is a cacophony of agencies and programs, many of which are directed at the same problems. Much of what Washington does is inefficient and wasteful. Few would dispute that the government in Washington cannot do effectively all it is now charged with doing. When it comes to specifics, however, changing things is  extremely difficult. Virtually every Federal agency and program has an entrenched constituency to shield it from scrutiny and fend off challenges to the status quo. Hence, the familiar axiom that the closest thing to immortality is a Washington spending program. 
   Federal agencies and programs have mushroomed over time, evolving in a largely random manner to respond to the real or perceived needs of the moment. Consequently, duplication and fragmentation abound. There is an obvious need to bring some order out of this chaos. As former Comptroller General Charles Bowsher stated in testimony before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee in 1995:  
   The case for reorganizing the Federal government is an easy one to make. Many departments and agencies were created in a different time and in response to problems very different from today's. Many have accumulated responsibilities beyond their original purposes. As new challenges arose or new needs were identified, new programs and responsibilities were added to departments and agencies with insufficient regard to their effects on the overall delivery of services to the public.  
   The situation has not improved since then. Just last month, the current Comptroller General, David Walker, recited an all too familiar litany of duplication, waste, mismanagement, and other Federal performance problems in testimony before the Senate and House Budget Committees. The GAO ``high-risk list'' of those Federal activities most vulnerable to fraud, waste, and abuse has grown from 14 problem areas in 1990 to 26 problem areas today. Only one high-risk problem has been removed since 1995. Ten of the 14 original high-risk problems are still on the list today--a full decade later. Likewise, inspectors general identify much the same critical performance problems in their agencies year after year. Collectively, these core 
   performance problems cost Federal taxpayers countless billions of dollars each year in outright waste. They also exact an incalculable toll on the ability of agencies to carry out their missions and serve the needs of our citizens. 
   Of course, meaningful reform of the Federal Government will not come from simply reshuffling current organizational boxes and redistributing current programs. We need to conduct a fundamental review of what Washington does and why. Our Founding Fathers envisioned a government of defined and limited powers. Imagine their dismay if they knew the size and scope of the Federal government today. We need to return to the limited but effective government that the Founders intended. This means divesting the Federal Government of functions it is not well suited to perform. However, it also means ensuring that the Federal Government does a better job of performing those core constitutional functions for which our citizens must rely on it. 
   The commission established in the legislation we are introducing today is a major step in that direction. It will take a hard look at Federal departments, agencies and programs and ask such questions as: 
   How can we restructure agencies and programs to improve the implementation of their statutory missions, eliminate activities not essential to their statutory missions, and reduce duplication of activities? 
   How can we improve management to maximize productivity, effectiveness and accountability of performance results? 
   What criteria should we use in determining whether a Federal activity should be privatized? 
   Which departments or agencies should be eliminated because their functions are obsolete, redundant, or could be better performed by state and local governments or the private sector? 
   Obviously, these questions involve subjective policy decisions. However, policy decisions should be the product of honest and open debate that stems from objective and fact-based analysis. I am convinced that this analysis can best be provided by an independent, nonpartisan commission that is removed from the normal pressures of Washington. 
   The commission will have many information sources available to it. The first cycle of implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 will be complete by the end of this month when agencies submit their first performance reports. The plans and reports that agencies have submitted under the Results Act, while far from perfect, should provide a more comprehensive framework for reviewing Federal missions and performance than we have had before. 
   I am pleased that Senators LIEBERMAN  and VOINOVICH are joining me in introducing the bill today, and I thank them for the time and staff they have devoted to the effort. I look forward to working with them on this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, seventeen years ago today President Reagan first committed his administration and the country to the concept of a National Missile Defense. He rightfully viewed the concept of Mutually Assured Destruction--the prevailing strategic concept of the day--as dangerous to this Nation. President Reagan understood that the only way to protect the American people and our homeland was through common sense, straight talk, and a strong, credible defense, not threats of mutual annihilation. While President Reagan and his Strategic Defense Initiative were mocked by critics, he remained steadfast in his vision and his belief that the American people could achieve anything they committed themselves to doing. 
   Seventeen years later the United States remains vulnerable to missile attack, but from newer and more likely threats, some of which we may not be able to deter: accidental launches, terrorist groups, and rogue states. The United States Intelligence Community and outside expert groups like the Rumsfeld Commission tell us that the threats are real and growing. Less than two years ago North Korea launched a three-stage missile over Japan, demonstrating a North Korean capability to send a missile with a nuclear, biological or chemical weapon to the United States. Meanwhile, other rogue states like Iran, Iraq, and Libya are developing similar capabilities. 
   Despite these real dangers, the current administration has kept the American people vulnerable to attack by failing to vigorously pursue missile defense programs started by previous Republican administrations. It has put the fate of our country and our people in the hands of the 1972 ABM Treaty--a treaty signed with a country that no longer exists, which was written for a vastly different strategic environment, and which codified the concept of Mutual Assured Destruction. 
   It is imperative that the United States aggressively pursue Ronald Reagan's vision of an American homeland free and safe, protected from intimidation, blackmail, and attack by missile-armed adversaries. We can start by putting greater effort and resources into programs like the National Missile Defense program--which has already demonstrated through actual tests that missile defense is technologically feasible--a fact acknowledged privately by defense officials, and publicly by Secretary of Defense Bill Cohen following the most recent test when he stated that ``the technology is certainly proving to be on the right track.'' 
   The United States should also continue to develop other initiatives which will complement our ground based system and provide for a multi-layered defense. I'm talking specifically about a sea-based system mounted on Navy Aegis cruisers that can be placed off an adversary's coast and destroy enemy missiles immediately after launch; or the Airborne Laser program that seeks to destroy missiles during their ascent; and a space-based system that can shoot down ballistic missiles in the outer atmosphere and vacuum of space. 
   I might also take this opportunity to compliment the Center for Security Policy and the Heritage Foundation that made valuable contributions in the discussion toward these alternatives. 
   The key to such a system is working with the Russians to allay their concerns, address their fears, and modify the ABM treaty to accommodate a robust, multi-layered national missile defense. We must try to convince the Russians that they share the threats we face--limited attacks or threats by rogue states--and that our missile defense plans in no way undercut their strategic deterrent. But ultimately, whether Russia is convinced or not, America must do what is necessary to protect itself. 
   I am concerned that the Clinton administration is currently negotiating changes to the ABM Treaty that will not allow us to fulfill these plans; that they are negotiating to make limited changes to the treaty that will sound good in an election year but will prevent us from building the robust, multi-tiered missile defense we need. This would be unsatisfactory and irresponsible. Marginal changes to the  ABM Treaty will only keep America vulnerable to missile attack, mislead the public about their safety, and tie the hands of the next Administration that may choose to do what is right, not politically or diplomatically expedient. 
   Finally, we must work with our Allies to address their concerns, interests, and our mutual defense obligations. We stood guard together during the dark days of the Cold War and eventually defeated communism. We must stand together again now and face the threats of the post-cold-war era. 
   Only through a sustained commitment to a national missile defense system--which can defend the American people from these horrible weapons of mass destruction--can the government fulfill its first responsibility of defending the United States. This is the right and sensible thing to do, and the American people are capable of achieving it. President Reagan understood that almost twenty years ago today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask that the Chair lay before the Senate a message from the House to accompany S. 761. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate disagree to the amendments of the House, agree to the request for a conference with the House, and the Chair be authorized to appoint conferees on the part of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I understand that S. 2285 is at the desk, and I ask for its first reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I now ask for its second reading, and I object to my own request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today it adjourn until the hour of 12 noon on Monday, March 27, 2000. I further ask consent that on Monday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate begin a period of morning business until 1:30 p.m. with Senators permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes each, with the exception for the following: the first 45 minutes under the control of Senator DURBIN, or his designee; the second 45 minutes under the control of Senator THOMAS, or his designee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. For the information of all Senators, following the morning business period at 1:30 on Monday, the Senate will begin consideration of S.J. Res. 14 regarding the desecration of the flag. Under the agreement reached earlier, two amendments will be debated during Monday's session of the Senate. 
   As announced, no rollcall votes will occur on Monday, and therefore the votes in relation to those amendments are scheduled for 2:15 on Tuesday. Any Senators interested in debating this important measure should be prepared to do so on Monday or early Tuesday. 
   Again, the next scheduled rollcall vote will occur beginning at 2:15 on Tuesday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order following the remarks of Senator BYRD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. May I inquire of my colleague exactly what he just suggested, that it be placed on the calendar now and that it be brought back up as pending business at the discretion of the majority leader? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I thank Senator ENZI very much. I do wish to make a couple of comments in response to the chairman of the Banking Committee, the Senator from Texas. 
   First of all, I appreciate his taking the bill down and giving us an opportunity for further discussions and negotiations. Apparently, there are still some items on which some Members are trying to come together. I must say, and have said to my friends, Senator GRAMM and Senator ENZI, that my concern goes deeper than some of the details we are working on right now. Unless some very substantial changes can be made, which I do not anticipate, I could not support the bill. I will not be the one standing in the way of proceeding on the bill, but I reserve all my rights as we proceed and discuss it. It does need full discussion. It is a very serious matter. I am afraid it has not yet gotten the attention it deserves. We will have some amendments, hopefully, to improve the bill as we go along. 
   I agree with my friend from Texas that it is a different time. We are not in the cold war anymore. No one can put the technological genie back in the bottle. But our export policies have quite adequately taken that into consideration. In fact, many on this side of the aisle, people around the country, have been quite critical of this administration because of the liberality or the looseness of the export controls that we are operating under now, under Executive order. As we know, we have not had a reauthorization of the Export Administration Act since 1994. We have been operating basically on Executive orders. I personally feel the Executive orders we are operating under with regard to our export controls are too loose and need tightening. 
   We saw what happened with regard to the exporting of our satellite technology and the Hughes and Loral situation that is under investigation by the Justice Department right now, where we got the Chinese to send our satellites up in orbit but apparently in the process gave the Chinese some very sophisticated technology that would assist them with regard to their missile program. So Congress reacted to that. 
   The Commerce Department had, previous to that, transferred the jurisdiction of satellites from the State Department to Commerce. It was all under Commerce. We took a look at that and said that does not belong in Commerce. Commerce has a legitimate concern about trade and exports for sure, but that is not the only concern. When you are exporting materials that have national security significance, so-called dual-use items that might be militarily significant to countries that you do not want to be helping, then the State Department needs to be concerned, too. So Congress insisted that jurisdiction be brought out from Commerce and given back to the State Department. 
   We have also seen what the administration has done with regard to high-performance computers. They reassess the situation every 6 months. They are increasing the MTOPS level for the export of high-performance computers to  countries such as China and other third-tier countries at a very brisk rate. The MTOPS level has gone from 2,000 in 1996 to 12,500 for military, as we speak. The anticipation is that the MTOPS level will continue on apace very significantly. 
   Now we have an amendment this morning, as I understand it, that would cause that review to happen not only every 6 months but every 30 days. The Department of Commerce would be looking at our high-performance computers and whether or not we ought to reassess sending more computers, something that we have had the dominant position on throughout the world, something the Chinese, until recently, had no indigenous capability of developing. We continue to supply them. We take into consideration things such as the abilities of foreign countries. 
   My point is, the Department of Commerce is hardly being guarded as they establish their policies of exports as far as high-speed computers are concerned. Many people, including myself, are concerned that they go too far and too fast because we do not know what the Chinese, for example, are really doing with them. We are told they have clustered together computers of lower MTOPS levels and have come up with something much, much more significant than what, perhaps, we think they have. 
   We were told by the Cox commission that the Chinese are using our high-performance computers for their simulations for their nuclear program. We were told that they use our high-performance computers to assist them in their biological and cryptology programs. 
   The cold war is over, and the last time we reauthorized this act, Jimmy Carter was in the White House. Indeed, the cold war has come and gone, but we have new challenges on the horizon. We do not have the old Soviet Union anymore, but we do have the Chinese who, the Rumsfeld commission tells us and the Cox commission in great detail explains to us, are very aggressively attempting to get their hands on our technology. 
   We know about the situation in Los Alamos. We know about their endeavors, as far as their commercial enterprises around the country. They tell us, in addition to that, they are feeding off our technology that we are exporting to them to use in the most troublesome manner, as they continue to be one of the world's greatest proliferators of weapons of mass destruction. It is not just what they are doing in China, but it is what they are doing around the world. 
   We have every reason to be extremely concerned about our export policies in light of these developments. We were warned by the Rumsfeld commission that we are facing a threat such as we have never faced before in this Nation with regard to these rogue nations and their increasing capabilities. We were warned by the Deutch commission. We were warned by the Cox commission. We were warned by at least two recent national security estimates in terms of the capabilities of these rogue nations. They all say they are getting much of their stuff from the Russians and the Chinese. 
   This is the backdrop against which we are considering reauthorization of the Export Administration Act. My concern is not that we are reauthorizing and taking a look at it, it is that we are looking at it totally from the wrong direction. We should be looking at ways of getting more training for our people who are serving as export licensers. We need to do more on end users. We do not know when we send a high-speed computer or high-performance computer to China what happens to it. 
   Up until 1998, the Chinese would not even let us check on end users. Out of 600-some computers we have sent over there, we have had one end user check. 
   According to the Cox commission, in 1998, we got an agreement with the Chinese to check with the end users, but the administration will not release that agreement. The Cox commission says they have seen it--they cannot release it--but it is totally inadequate. This is the backdrop against which we are considering reauthorizing the Export Administration Act. 
   What do we do with this bill, S. 1712? The bill does some good things, I think. There are some provisions in it that move in the right direction, but they are fairly minimal. In many important respects, it, first of all, further incorporates into law things this administration has been doing by Executive order and then creates new legal categories, all of which liberalize or loosen export controls. 
   It creates a category with regard to foreign availability. Foreign availability is taken into consideration now by the Department of Commerce in making its decisions as it increases these end-top levels. They take that into consideration. What this bill will do is put it into law and set up a technical 
   group within the Department of Commerce to make a determination if there is foreign availability, and, if so, lickety-split, it does not matter what the end-top level is at Commerce when that happens, it goes out the door. 
   We have seen from hearings in our committee that there is sometimes great disagreement as to whether or not there is foreign availability with a certain item. It is not just strictly a green-eyeshade matter of physics; it is something that ought to be considered very carefully and should not be left up to the unilateral discretion of Commerce. 
   This bill gives Commerce more discretion than it has ever had before. We have been very critical of the practices of the Department of Commerce in this administration in times past. I suggest we consider very carefully whether or not we want to give even more authority to the Department of Commerce as we move forward. 
   Another category is created out of whole cloth: mass marketing. That is not in common practice now; that is not in current Executive orders now. It basically says if it is mass marketed in this country, even if it is not in another country, the assumption is they are eventually going to get it, so let's send it to them, taking into consideration the advantage we might have of at least having a delay as we consider our policies in this Nation, such as the National Missile Defense Program or things of that nature. 
   We are creating mass marketing. We are creating foreign availability. We are creating embedded components: No matter if a component is controlled, if it is part of a larger component, and it is only so much of the value of that larger component, you look at the value and not the inherent nature of the component itself. That is not right. We ought to look at the component, and if it is controlled, it ought to remain controlled whether it is in a larger item or not. It is another category where we are taking additional items out of control. 
   Each of these things can be and, I assure you, will be debated in some detail as to whether or not it is good policy, but I think there can be no argument on two points: First, there is greater discretion in many respects in the Department of Commerce and in the Secretary of Commerce. Second, this bill tips the scales in favor of more exports. That is the reason we are doing it. 
   I personally have not heard any complaints--maybe there are complaints out there; I do not say there are not--from exporters who are not getting things through fast enough. Maybe we need more people. Maybe we need more folks handling the paperwork. Whatever. I do not argue that point. 
   I do not hear any hue and cry that we are not shipping dual-use possibly militarily significant items out fast enough. But one could look at this bill and assume that is the underlying motivation, that we believe we need to loosen up the export controls a little bit. 
   It is an honest disagreement. My friends have worked very hard on this. They have tried to be as accommodating as they know how, but we approach this from a fundamentally different vantage point. 
   I look forward to the discussion when we get on the bill. I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I indicated that I might object to the motion to proceed to the Export Administration Act. It is not my intention to do that. In checking with my other colleagues who have been concerned with this matter, I have learned they are satisfied, as I am, that there have been negotiations in good faith with regard to some of the provisions of the Export Administration Act that cause us great concern; therefore, I will be content to offer amendments tomorrow. But I would like to state for the Record that I do not intend immediately to enter into any time agreement. 
   The chairman of the Banking Committee has indicated that he does not intend to ask for any time agreement going in. There will be amendments. We need thorough discussion of this matter. This is not something we can hastily go into and dispense with. It is very complicated. It is very important. It has to do with our export policy with regard to our dual-use items--very sensitive items which some countries are now using to enhance their nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction capabilities. There is hardly anything more serious than that. 
   My own view is that we have needed to reauthorize the Export Administration Act for some time. But we need to tighten the rules, not loosen the rules. My concern is that this does, indeed, loosen some of the important rules. 
   While I will not object to a motion to proceed, I want it understood that we are going to need a full discussion of the issue. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate the Tennessee Titans on their outstanding season and tremendous effort in Super Bowl XXXIV. 
   This past Sunday, football fans across America and around the world witnessed the most exciting and hard-fought Super Bowl in recent memory, if not all-time. Trailing by sixteen points in the third quarter, the Titans rallied to tie the game. They fell behind once again, but drove down to the St. Louis one-yard-line before time ran out. 
   The road to Atlanta was not an easy one for the Tennessee Titans. The team has played in four stadiums in three cities and two states in four years. But, despite this adversity, Titans Coach Jeff Fisher motivated his players, orchestrated comebacks and led a team that fought until the last second, the last yard. Ultimately, they ran out of time. 
   Who will forget Kevin Dyson stretching to reach the goal line when the clock ran out on the most important game of his life? Who could ever forget the Titans' ``Music City Miracle,'' the kick-off return that clinched a play-off victory over the Buffalo Bills, the outstanding defensive effort in the win at Indianapolis, the incredible second half in Jacksonville that propelled the team to the Super Bowl, the indomitable will of Steve McNair or the power and determination of Eddie George? The Titans came so close to winning it all, and they have so much of which they can be proud. 
   The Tennessee Titans can be proud of the way they played with heart and introduced the world to a team that many hadn't heard much about. The Titans energized the state of Tennessee and nearly shocked the world. Most important, the Titans gave their young fans an example of the character and sportsmanship to which we should all aspire. And they inspired us with their refusal to give up when they were pegged the underdogs. 
   Mr. President, I'd also like to congratulate my good friends from the state of Missouri on the success of the St. Louis Rams. They too overcame a tough recent history and many nay-sayers to win the most exciting Super Bowl in history. Their wide receiver, Isaac Bruce, a former player for my alma mater the University of Memphis, stunned us all with his winning 73-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter. And the Super Bowl's most valuable player, Kurt Warner, is an inspiration on the football field and in his personal life. I congratulate them both and all of their Rams teammates.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill on behalf of myself as chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee and Senator Lieberman, the Committee's ranking minority member, on an issue of great importance to our committee and the nation--the security of Federal government computer systems. 
   Over the last decade, the Federal Government, like most private-sector organizations, has become enormously dependent on interconnected computer systems, including the Internet, to support its operations and account for its assets. This explosion in interconnectivity has resulted in many benefits. In particular, it has increased productivity, made enormous amounts of useful information instantly available to millions of people, and contributed to the economic boom of the 1990s. 
   However, the factors that generate these benefits--widely accessible data and instantaneous communication--also increase the risks that information will be misused, possibly to commit fraud or other crimes, or that sensitive information will be in appropriately disclosed. In addition, our government's, as well as our nation's, dependence on this computer support makes it susceptible to devastating disruptions in critical services, as well as in computer-based safety and financial controls. Such disruptions could be caused by sabotage, natural disasters, or widespread system faults, as illustrated by the Y2K date conversion concerns. 
   The Governmental Affairs Committee spent considerable time during the last Congress on this issue with a specific emphasis on information security and cyberterrorism. We uncovered and identified failures of information security affecting our international security and vulnerability to domestic and international terrorism. We highlighted our nation's vulnerability to computer attacks--from international and domestic terrorists to crime rings to everyday hackers. We directed GAO to prepare a ``best practices'' guide on computer security for Federal agencies to use, and we asked GAO to study computer security vulnerabilities at several Federal agencies including the Internal Revenue Service, the State Department, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Social Security Administration, and the Veterans' Administration. 
   As a result of its work, GAO identified many specific weaknesses in agency controls and concluded that the underlying cause was inadequate security program planning and management. In particular, agencies were addressing identified weaknesses on a piecemeal basis rather than proactively addressing systemic causes that diminished security effectiveness throughout the agency. 
   That is not to say that nothing is being done. Many in the executive branch recognize that action is needed to improve Federal information security, and several efforts have been initiated. For example, in May 1998, Presidential Decision Directive (PDD) 63 directed the National Security Council to lead a variety of efforts intended to improve critical infrastructure protection, including protection of Federal agency information infrastructures, and required major agencies to develop plans to protect their own critical computer-based systems. 
   But despite a flurry of activity in this area and a number of statutes already on the books which deal with the issues, we have concluded that a more complete and meaningful statutory foundation for improvement is needed. The primary objective of this legislation is to update existing information security statutory requirements to address the management challenges associated with operating in the current interconnected computing environment. 
   We begin where the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 left off. These laws, and the computer Security Act of 1987, provided the basic framework for managing information security. This legislation which we introduce today will update and clarify existing requirements and responsibilities of Federal agencies in dealing with information security. 
   The Government Information Security Act: 
   Strengthens the Office of Management and Budget's information security duties, consistent with its existing responsibilities under the Paperwork Reduction Act; 
   Establishes Federal agency accountability for information security as needed to cost-effectively protect the assets and operations of the agency by creating a set of management requirements derived from GAO ``Best Practices'' audit work; 
   Requires agencies to have an annual independent evaluation of their information security programs and practices to assess compliance with authorized requirements and to test effectiveness of information security control techniques; 
   Provides for the application of a unified and logical set of governmentwide controls by including national security systems within the application of the legislation; and 
   Focuses on the importance of training programs and governmentwide incident handling. 
   We recognize that these aren't the only things that need to be done. Some have suggested we provide specific standards in the legislation. Others  have recommended we establish a new position of a National Chief Information Officer. These and, no doubt, many other proposals will be considered as we debate this important issue. But this legislation is intended as a good first step to better define roles among Federal agencies in order to develop a fully secure government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, yesterday, my colleague from New Mexico, Senator BINGAMAN, and I introduced legislation that is, frankly, long overdue. 
   For more than 2 years, I have been concerned that the Department of Energy was not taking seriously the complaints of a number of workers in Oak Ridge, Tennessee who are ill and who believe that their illnesses are linked to their employment at the DOE site in Oak Ridge. In November of 1997, two years ago, I wrote to the then-Surgeon General, Dr. David Satcher, to request that the Centers for Disease Control, CDC, come to Oak Ridge to try to determine whether a pattern of unexplained illnesses was present and, if so, if its cause could be determined. The CDC study, like others before it, looked at a narrow sample of individuals and did not produce conclusive results. 
   Since then, I have been working to get the Department of Energy to acknowledge that there is a problem, that certain of its current and former workers are ill, and that they should work with us to address the situation. This legislation--which we developed in conjunction with the Department--is an important step in that direction. 
   It says, for the first time, that if mistakes were made, and if harm was done to workers who helped this country win the Cold War, we need to act now to remedy those mistakes. It represents a recognition on the part of the government that if people have illnesses that are linked to their employment at a Department of Energy facility, they deserve compensation. That is progress, and I am proud to be a part of it. 
   Our bill has three parts. The first section, the Energy Employees' Beryllium Compensation Act, would provide compensation to current and former workers who have contracted chronic beryllium disease or beryllium sensitivity while performing duties uniquely related to the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons production program. There are approximately 90 Oak Ridge workers who have been diagnosed with either chronic beryllium disease or beryllium sensitivity to date, and a total of 2,200 Oak Ridge workers who were potentially exposed. 
   The second section, the Energy Employees' Pilot Project Act, would establish a special pilot program for a specific group of 55 Oak Ridge workers who are currently the subject of an investigation by a panel of physicians specializing in health conditions related to occupational exposure to radiation and hazardous materials. This section authorizes the Secretary of Energy to award $100,000 each to those Oak Ridge workers whose illnesses are determined to likely be linked to their employment at the Oak Ridge site. 
   Finally, our bill creates the Paducah Employees' Exposure Compensation Fund, which would compensate those current and former workers at the Paducah, KY gaseous diffusion plant who were exposed to plutonium and other radioactive materials without their knowledge, and who develop one of a specified list of conditions linked to radiation exposure. I want to note that there are workers at the K-25 gaseous diffusion plant in Oak Ridge who were exposed to the same contaminants as those in Paducah, and workers in Portsmouth, Ohio who were similarly affected as well. It is my hope that these two groups of workers would be added to this section of the legislation, upon the conclusion of the Department of Energy's investigation into what happened at these two sites, if the facts so warrant. Their absence at this time should in no way indicate that either the sponsors of this bill or the Department of Energy believe that they were not similarly affected. I strongly believe that workers at all of the DOE sites must be treated equally in this process, and I am committed to doing all I can to ensure that that is the case. 
   Let me just remind my colleagues who it is we are talking about. We are talking about workers who participated in the Manhattan Project, men and women who helped to ensure the superiority of America's nuclear arsenal, and who directly contributed to our nation's victory in the Cold War. We owe them a debt of gratitude. And if we put them in harm's way without their knowledge, it's time for us to make that right. This bill is a step in that direction. I look forward to its consideration by the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) will be celebrating its 60th Anniversary by honoring Elmer B. Staats, who served as Comptroller General of the United States from 1966-1981. The Comptroller General of the United States has enormous responsibility as head of the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO). Much of what we take for granted about GAO's successes in the area of government accountability results from the leadership of each Comptroller General. The commitment required to fulfill the responsibilities of this important position are equally balanced by the excellence we have seen in the occupants of the job. 
   That said, Elmer Staats occupies a special place not only in GAO's history, but for establishing the foundation of improved government accountability and fiscal responsibility so important to the sound functioning of our government. As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs I can attest to the importance of Mr. Staats' contributions, because they have crucially shaped the effectiveness of GAO over the years and have been of enormous assistance to the Committee and to the Congress as a whole. 
   Elmer Staats increased GAO's visibility and services to the Congress dramatically. Elmer Staats expanded GAO's work beyond the mere consideration of the legality of expenditures and agency administrative activities, and began examining the effectiveness of government programs. What is important is that he did so by adapting rigorous accounting or ``Yellow Book'' Government Auditing Standards. In fact, when it comes to the Yellow Book, Elmer Staats literally wrote the book. Finally, Elmer Staats set the pace for GAO to be a leader in the fight against waste, fraud, and abuse. As Stephen Barr reported in The Washington Post on Thursday, October 28, 1999, ``For fiscal 1999, the GAO expects its recommendations to produce budget savings and financial benefits worth more than $20 billion. That follows several years in which the GAO's auditing and investigative work has led to annual savings of between $16 billion and $21 billion.'' 
   I applaud ASPA's decision to honor Elmer Staats to highlight its own 60 years of service to our nation, and I extend my personal congratulations to Elmer Staats for receiving such a high honor. I ask unanimous consent that a congratulatory letter from the current Comptroller General, David M. Walker, be entered into the RECORD at this point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to be recognized to speak for up to 15 minutes as if in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I want to address the subject of Social Security, as my colleague from New Hampshire has so eloquently addressed a few minutes ago. It is a matter about which we are all concerned. We all agree that something is going to have to be done about it because the numbers simply don't work. We all know that the money needed to pay to more and more retirees is not going to be sufficient because we are not going to have a sufficient number of people paying into the trust fund. We are going to have more and more retirees and fewer and fewer workers in the future. The numbers simply are not going to add up. 
   We all recognize that a day of reckoning is coming, and many of us have been struggling to try to decide what to do about it. It seems as if there are really only three choices. 
   One is to raise taxes. We pay for Social Security with Social Security taxes, FICA taxes. We could raise them astronomically on future workers. 
   The second is to cut benefits, which, of course, nobody wants to do. 
   The third choice is to have some kind of fundamental restructuring and reform. I think more and more people have concluded that is what has to happen. 
   A lot of people, including myself, think we have to have some system whereby the worker can invest some of that money in those FICA taxes for something that will have a much greater return than they are getting today. 
   We were hoping that before the President left office, there would be some leadership from the President in making some of the hard choices we all know are going to have to be made. Any one of those choices I have just described is not an easy political choice to make. It will never be made unless we get some leadership from the President, at which point I think a lot of people will fall in line. 
   We have, on a bipartisan basis in the Senate, already been trying to work toward that end. Frankly, I don't think the political risks are as great as a lot of people think. I think we should tell the people the truth and do something, go ahead and do it. There is not a lot of risk to that. Most people believe otherwise. But we will have to have Presidential leadership under any circumstances. 
   The President has come forth with a plan which does not really do those three things I mentioned before in terms of the alternatives, but he seeks to basically put the problem off to another day. It is a good strategy in a year before an election because it avoids the problem while pretending to solve it. But it certainly doesn't do anything to solve it. 
   I think we can reach agreement on that with a pretty wide consensus on a bipartisan basis in this body because too many Democrats and Republicans have been working together and concluding that the approach that has recently been suggested by the President is something that just won't work. 
   Here is the basic situation. Right now, mandatory spending programs such as Social Security and Medicare consume two-thirds of our Federal budget. 
   In 1980, it was 53 percent; 1990, 63 percent; today, 66.5 percent. By 2030, if no changes are made, mandatory spending, including Social Security and Medicare, will eat up 100 percent of Federal revenue. 
   We know we cannot go down that route forever. At the same time, we are facing a demographic time bomb that will place unprecedented new burdens on the Federal budget. The number of Americans over the age of 65 will more than double between now and 2030. Also, during the same period, the working age of Americans will only increase by 25 percent. This means there will be fewer people paying into the system to support many more beneficiaries. Most everyone, myself included, argues that more people living longer is not a bad problem to have. But it will place tremendous strain on the Social Security Program and on our Federal budget, neither of which is particularly well equipped to deal with it. 
   I cannot agree with the President when he said in his radio address that his proposal to transfer general revenue credits--getting away from the FICA self-financing system that we have now, but dipping into general revenue credits, coming in from income taxes because we have a surplus now, that to transfer these credits into the Social Security trust fund is ``the first big step toward truly saving Social Security.'' 
   Let me first point out the general revenues the President wants to transfer to Social Security come from the very same projected budget surplus he said we could not count on for tax cuts. Now he is using those same uncertain surpluses to so-called save Social Security. The President cannot have it both ways. 
   I will quote from testimony of David Walker, Comptroller General, testifying before the Finance Committee in February. The Senator from New Hampshire quoted Mr. Walker saying ``this does not represent a Social Security reform plan.'' I will not quote all of his statement at this point, but an additional statement he made was that ``the changes to the Social Security Program will thus be more perceived than real,'' talking essentially the same as the President's plan. Although the trust funds will appear to have more resources as a result of the proposal, in reality nothing about this program is changed. He concluded that  the proposal does not present Social Security reform but, rather, it represents a different means to finance the current program. 
   It is not Social Security reform and will not save Social Security. One of the risks of the proposal is that the additional years of financing may very well diminish the urgency to achieve meaningful changes in the program. That would not be in the overall best interests of the Nation. In other words, whether it is designed to have the effect of convincing people we are doing something that we are not, that we don't have to address the problem for a while, when, in fact, we are not taken care of, thereby makes the problem worse when we finally do get around to instituting some responsible reforms. 
   I don't know if I can say it any better than the Comptroller. What the President is proposing is to add more debt to the Social Security trust fund, more paper IOUs that one day will have to be redeemed. What is different about these paper IOUs is that they do not represent excess FICA taxes--money collected for the specific purpose of financing the Social Security Program. For the first time, the President is proposing to inject general revenue dollars into the trust fund, 
   based on a calculation of interest savings we will realize as a result of paying down the debt. 
   There are several problems with this. One, as the Comptroller General pointed out, adding more IOUs to the trust fund may give the impression on paper of extended solvency but it does not change by one minute the day on which the cash-flow problem comes home to roost; that is, the day on which payroll taxes will not be sufficient to cover benefit payments and we will have to begin redeeming the IOUs in the trust fund. 
   In the absence of real reform, as I said, there are only three ways to redeem the IOUs. Rather than taking steps to reduce the program's unfunded liability, the President's proposal makes us more reliant on the unhappy choices of raising taxes or cutting benefits. Rather than acknowledging that we will have to either raise payroll taxes, adjust benefits, or find a way to enable people to earn a higher return on FICA taxes, the President makes the program more dependent on future infusions of general revenues from the Treasury--income taxes from young workers that will come into the system later on. That will only exacerbate the trend I discussed earlier in which an ever-increasing portion of the overall Federal budget is being dedicated to entitlement programs for the elderly. 
   Everyone believes Social Security is a vitally important program, and everyone is committed to making sure that it is there for current seniors and future generations to rely upon. I am not sure we are all committed to the proposition that 100 percent of the Federal budget should be dedicated to Social Security and Medicare. In fact, I am pretty sure most believe the Federal Government has other responsibilities as well, such as national defense, national parks, infrastructure, and schools. That is the direction in which we are headed and the President's proposal gets us there more quickly. 
   The second problem with transferring general revenues into the Social Security trust fund, as David Walker pointed out, is that will, in all likelihood, diminish the momentum for real reform. If we continue to avoid real reform, we only have to look at countries in western Europe to catch the glimpse of the problems we face: Pension benefits that are on average 1 1/2 to 2 times as generous as our Social Security; astronomical payroll taxes to fund the benefits; 40 percent in France; 42 percent in Germany; 39 percent in Italy, on top of other taxes imposed by the government, and an average unemployment rate across European Union countries that will be double that of the United States this year, 9.1 versus 4.3. 
   According to a recent series in the Washington Post, it simply costs companies too much to create jobs in Europe. In Germany, the textile industry, for example, payroll taxes and fringe benefits add 70 percent to the average salary. These countries have promised more than they can afford, just as we have. 
   We need to have a debate about structural reform of our Social Security Program. It needs to be a bipartisan debate. We need to have real options on the table, not gimmicks designed to give one party political advantage over the other. I hope the President will agree to work toward that goal, but until he does I hope we do not fall into the trap of instituting something that makes the situation worse. That is what this proposal will do. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise in support of the McCain-Feingold legislation as amended. I do so based upon the premise that it is our responsibility in this body, it is our responsibility as a Congress, to address the issues concerning the election of Federal officials. I can think of nothing more appropriate to address than how we elect Federal officials and the way in which we elect them. It is not up to the Federal Election Commission to do this for Congress. It is not up to the Attorney General to do this for Congress, nor the lower courts. It is for Congress to state precisely what kind of system we want--or no system, if we don't want a system--to state that clearly and be willing to stand up and make a case. 
   This is a balancing process, one that has been endorsed by the Supreme Court of the United States. I think the purists on both sides of this issue probably have missed the boat. It clearly does cost more now to run campaigns than it used to cost. In my opinion, the $1,000 limitation, for example, is clearly too low. It needs to be adjusted for inflation. On the other hand, those who say there is not enough money in politics and that we should be able to donate unlimited amounts of money to parties for the benefit of those who are running for office I think miss the boat, also. Surely, we can strike some kind of a balance wherein we can address the legitimate costs of running for office and the fact that we are not going to be able to eliminate money from politics on the one hand with certain reasonable limitations that do not cause public cynicism and do not cause questions to be raised concerning the motivations of those who write the laws in this country. 
   Both history and common sense demonstrate beyond any purview of a doubt there is something inherently problematic with giving large amounts of money to people who write the laws, especially when donors of that money are affected by the laws that are being written. That is not a novel concept. That is something historians back in the 19th century were talking about. They were talking about the downfall of the Roman Empire, something that the Venetians addressed seven centuries ago when they placed strict limits on what could be given to elect the officials. Under their system, if one was going to ask elected officials for any favors, one couldn't contribute to them at all. 
   We have recognized that in this body. Senator Barry Goldwater, who is one of my heroes, has been called Mr. Republican; he has been called Mr. Conservative over the years. He is the conscience of the conservatives. It is one of the things that caused me to want to get into politics. I admired his courage. I also admired what was on his mind. He was always a man of integrity and always willing to look a little bit further than the end of his nose, look a little bit further than things that affected him. 
   He said in 1983 about big money:  
   It eats at the heart of the democratic process. It feeds the growth of special interest groups created solely to channel money into political campaigns. It creates the impression that every candidate is bought and owned by the biggest givers, and it causes elected officials to devote more time to raising money than to their public duties. If the present trends continue, voter participation will drop off significantly--  
   I might ask parenthetically if that sounds familiar--  
   public respect will fall to an all-time low-- 
   I ask the same question--  
   and political campaigns will be controlled by slick packaging artists, and neglect of public duties by absentee officials will undermine government praises.  
   That was Barry Goldwater in 1983. I am disappointed some of my colleagues on the Senate floor did not have an opportunity to question him and interrogate him and try to get him to name names as to those who are corrupt. That is what Barry Goldwater said in 1983. 
   It is not just statements made here that recognize this inherent problem to which there is no one answer--I might add, an inherent obvious problem--and has been with us over the centuries. It is based on human nature. In response to that, we do such things as pass a gift ban. If there is no problem with the giving of things to public officials and to candidates for office, why have we passed the gift ban rule? But we did. So we have the rather curious situation now where an individual cannot buy a Member dinner, but he can give a Member $1,000 for his campaign. Or he can bundle $100,000 for you. Or if he is rich enough, he can give $1 million to your party for your benefit, but he cannot buy you dinner. 
   We recognize this basic question in the laws that we pass. In 1907, we banned corporate contributions. In 1943, we banned union corporations. In 1974, we passed limits on amounts of money that could be given to individual candidates. We passed limits on amounts of money that could be given to political parties. We set up a system  of partially funding Presidential campaigns--the idea being if the taxpayers funded the Presidential campaigns, the Presidential candidates would not have to go out and raise private money. 
   Why were we concerned about that if it is the same old answer--the things we have been talking about for the last few minutes. We set up that system. I might say, since that was passed and has been in effect since 1976, until the last Presidential campaign, we have had no real problems in terms of scandals. The Presidential candidates each spent about the same amount of money; sometimes Republicans won, sometimes Democrats, sometimes incumbents, sometimes challengers. That is what we had until recently. 
   This balance that was struck--not impeding first amendment rights but recognizing this inherent question, this inherent historical century-old problem--the balance that was struck was upheld by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court acknowledged we were placing limitations on individuals, perhaps involving the first amendment in some ways, but the Supreme Court said in striking a balance between that legitimate concern on the one hand and the concern over the corruption or appearance of corruption on the other hand was a decent one to strike and was permissible to strike. So we set up a system of limitations and disclosures. 
   This is not a personal matter. This does not have to do with individual Members. It is not about Members as individuals as we consider this in the Senate and the Congress. We haven't been here for very long when considering the course of history, and none will be here very much longer. What we are supposed to do is look past that and do what is necessary and beneficial for the country. 
   I have been distressed in watching this morning, that all of the concern supposedly has not been on the merits of campaign finance but attacks on the Senator from Arizona because he has raised these questions--the same ones that Barry Goldwater raised. Hopefully, we will be able to get back and debate the issues as to whether or not our current situation is a good one. 
   I was thumbing through some material. I haven't been able to catch up on my reading lately. I suggest we direct our attention to what people are saying--not the Senator from Arizona, not Common Cause, not the ACLU, not the advocates we all are on the issues. 
   Congressional Daily was put out by the National Journal on October 7. This journal is primarily a discussion of the legislative issues, what is happening and what is going to happen. In this article written by Bruce Stokes, I was struck by this passage that probably didn't raise any eyebrows because it is so common nowadays. This man wrote:  
   More importantly, the China WTO issue may loom large in some congressional primaries not because voters will care but because candidates on both sides of the issue will use it to raise money from business and labor, a milk cow Members of Congress may be reluctant to cut off by actually voting on the issue.  
   That is not something I would say. I do not know that to be true at all. But this is what people writing for the National Journal are saying. I suggest we ought to be concerned about that. We ought to be a little bit more concerned about the message and not so much concerned about the messenger. So maybe we can get back to the issue, as we proceed these next few days, as to whether or not we have a good situation in this country today. 
   I suggest it is not about the total amount of money in politics. People argue there is too much money in politics; there is not enough money in politics. How long is a piece of string? I am not here to say there is too much or too little money in politics per se. People point out Procter & Gamble spends more on advertising soap than we spend on politics. But I would say a couple of things about this. 
   No. 1, I draw a distinction between what we do and soap making. I hope it would be fairly obvious but perhaps not. 
   Second, the problem, again, is the age-old question: What do we do about the necessity for money in politics and political campaigns on the one hand and the inherent problem of giving large sums of money to individual politicians, to individual legislators, or to individual parties which will inure to the benefit of those legislators? Procter & Gamble has nothing to do with that. The advertisers who place those ads, the people who run those ads, do not conduct public policy in this country, but we do. 
   So why are we here today? Why does this keep coming back? Because, as I have said, we have not addressed this legislatively. The answer is, we are going to have to strike a new balance. We are going to have to readdress what we have done in this country 
   on campaign finance and what we have learned over the last few years because having set up a system that, for better or for worse, whether you agree with it or not, struck that balance in terms of letting money in, letting people have enough money to run but not being overwhelmed by money so it looks as if your vote is based on something other than the merits--that has been totally done away with, basically. We do not have that system anymore. 
   You say: When did Congress change it? Congress did not. Congress really did not do anything to change that system. That system was changed by, basically, the Federal Election Commission and by interpretations of the Attorney General. Now soft money can, in large measure, do what hard money used to do. The gates have been opened. Presumably, after learning the lessons of the last Presidential campaign and the interpretations that the highest law enforcement officer in the country has placed on it, which presumably is the law which presumably is going to be the pattern candidates for both parties are going to be following, a candidate can now go out and raise millions of dollars of soft money, run it through the State parties, coordinate its expenditures, and run television ads, as long as he doesn't say, ``Vote for me.'' That is basically the system we have today. 
   The system we have now is not what we want. It is not what we ever voted for before. It is not the system we have had before. But because of FEC interpretations and the Attorney General, that is the system we have now. 
   As we often have to do in this body, we have to readdress fundamental issues. You seldom fix anything for the duration of eternity. Sometimes you can do pretty well for a couple of decades, as we did in 1974. People say it didn't work. I think it worked pretty well in most respects. Certainly, in the Presidential campaigns it has worked well. It has now been proven the hard money limits are too low. That is one of the things we have learned. What do we do? Throw the whole thing out or do we raise the hard money limits? I think we ought to raise the hard money limits in light of the reality we have learned since the last time we addressed this issue. 
   We have a system now where basically there are no practical limitations on any amount of money anybody wants to give to effect political campaigns. If that is what we want, an argument can be made that is a good thing. It has never been made as far as I know. It has never been voted on in this body. Do we want that? If we do not want that, we ought to say so. If we do, we ought to say so. 
   How did we get into a situation where, without this body lifting a finger, we went from a system where people were mightily concerned about the $5,000 PAC check, by the $1,000 individual check--from that system, that is the last time we addressed it, to a system whereby now you are not a player unless you are giving $100,000? 
   It started in 1978, the FEC rule that parties could send certain moneys to the State parties; the Federal party could send to the State parties for party-building activity. Then in 1991, they said they could fund certain voter drive costs with soft money, up to a percentage: It is 35 percent in a nonelection year, 40 percent in an election year. In 1995, for the first time the FEC said you can use soft money for television. Then, Mr. Morris over at the White House showed the President how he could take the matching money, certify that he 
   wouldn't raise any money himself, go out and raise all of this additional $44 million in soft money, while being able to say, ``I am not raising this money for my campaign; I am raising it for the party.'' 
   So the President raises all this additional money, the President sits in the Oval Office and coordinates all of it,  tells what kind of ads to put on, where to put them on, how much, and how much money to spend. That is the procedure that Attorney General Reno put her stamp of approval on. Until some court or somebody--or this body--says otherwise, that is the way it is. 
   Now a President or a Presidential candidate, and if so, a congressional candidate, can raise unlimited amounts of soft money, run it through the proper party, coordinate the ads, and have ads run as long as they qualify as issue ads. 
   I am not even arguing the merits of that now. I am saying that is what we have today, and I do not think a lot of people realize it. We did not realize it until recently. The problem we have is that we want to castigate the President for opening up the floodgates. But instead of leaving it at that, we want to do it, too, because the system we have now has been the one that has been developed by the FEC, Mr. Morris, the President, and the Attorney General. Those are the standards we are now operating under. Those are the standards which Members of this body are fighting to preserve. 
   Not only have we discovered it because a few years ago soft money did not play much of a role at all, and what was there went for party-building activities, not for what we see now--not only have we discovered it, or the President discovered it for us, we discovered it, we like it, it now has constitutional protection, and we would have political disaster if we did not have it anymore. We haven't had it very long, but now that we have it, it would be absolute political disaster if we had to do away with it. 
   Back in 1990, for a 2-year cycle, both parties raised $25 million in soft money. In 1996, under Mr. Morris and the President and their new plan--their Plan B, they called it--they raised $261 million. That is from $25 million at the beginning of the decade to $261 million. For the first 6 months of 1999, the parties have raised $55 million and the predictions are, by those who do this sort of thing and have been correct in the past, that by November of 2000 we will have raised $525 million of soft money, which is more than double 1996. The year 1996 was the high-water mark because that is when it was discovered; that is when it was perfected; that is when the doors were opened. 
   By November of next year, the predictions are we will double that. The question is, How long will this go on? How long should it go on? 
   I suggest that we are in need of a new balance. We need to drastically cut back or eliminate soft money, but we need to raise the hard money limits to comport with inflation. 
   It is true--and the promoters of reform need to understand this--that we are developing a system whereby only the rich or the professional politician can participate anymore because those limits are so low. They have not kept up with inflation. If $5,000 were indexed for inflation today, it would be, what, $32,000, or something of that nature. The costs are much more. It is becoming much more time consuming. We need to raise those hard dollar limits across the board, and then we would not need that soft money as much, for one thing, and a lot of that soft money, I think, would come into the hard money system. 
   That would be consistent with our long history of concern on this matter and our long history of legislating on this matter. 
   What are the arguments? I would have hoped by now we would have heard a little bit more about the merits and the arguments of this case instead of the personalities. But as I understand the arguments, No. 1, all this soft money--it is true that the floodgates have been opened. It is true that in every election cycle, we will be doubling the amount of money next time. We will be up there with good old Procter & Gamble before long. 
   The answer is, this just goes to parties; it does not go to candidates, so it cannot have a corrupting influence. I am wondering, if that is the case, why are we spending so much time raising it. I am wondering why President Clinton spent so much time raising it in the White House? Did he really enjoy having coffee with all that many people because the money was going to the Democratic National Committee? And yet he continued to raise it. 
   Do the national committees have no relationship at all to the members? I do not think we want to try to convince the American people of that. Roger Tamraz met with Don Fowler when he was chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Tamraz agreed to contribute $300,000 to the DNC. He had an oil pipeline he wanted to build in the Caspian Sea region. 
   To make a very long story short, he was able to set up a meeting with the Vice President. To the Vice President's credit, he canceled that meeting. He kept working. He got Mr. Fowler to call the National Security Council for him. He got Mr. Fowler to call the CIA for him. Tamraz attended six events with President Clinton in 9 months. Sullivan over at the Democratic National Committee prepared two memos summarizing Tamraz's hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions to various Democratic institutions. Four days later, he attended a coffee with the President, talked about the pipeline with Mr. McCarty, and McCarty later enlisted Energy Department officials to lobby for the pipeline, officials who were aware of Mr. Tamraz's contributions to the DNC. 
   I do not think anyone would contend that Mr. Fowler, who was chairman of the DNC at that time, had no influence with regard to the members of his own party and the members of this administration. Some people say Mr. Tamraz did not get what he wanted. Is that cause for great comfort to find out in a situation such as this, a pitiful situation such as this, that 
   this individual did not in this instance get what he wanted? Besides, I raise the question, if there had not been a courageous young woman by the name of Ms. Heslin at the National Security Council who was raising red flags about all of this, I do not know whether or not Mr. Tamraz's luck would have been different. 
   The same principles are involved with soft money contributions as they are with hard money contributions. This is not an easy thing to discuss. This is not something where anybody wants to be holier than thou. We all raise money. We all know we have to raise money. We all try to strike a balance in terms of amounts, in terms of appearances, but if we really are trying to strike a proper balance to come up with something that may not necessarily be the best in the world for us as an individual politician but really is something the country is going to have to move toward, if we really do our jobs, we are going to have to do that. 
   Let's not kid ourselves: We are not casting aspersions on any individual. It is not enough for us to stand up and say: OK, who here is a crook? I see no hands; therefore, there is no problem. Let's go home. 
   We are talking about something that is supposed to pertain for all time and something that, hopefully, will deal with appearances as well as reality, appearances that the Supreme Court recognizes as a valid concern and has been recognized as a valid concern throughout history. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Is there any way you can violate the law under our current system today? Yes, I can think of ways. A clear quid pro quo would be a violation of the law. But you have to prove a quid pro quo, which is a very high standard. That is under the bribery statutes. 
   But under the campaign part of it, as long as you disclosed it, raising unlimited amounts, I see no effective limitation. 
   There is even a controversy as to whether or not foreign soft money contributions are now legal. A lower court held they were legal. I had a discussion with Attorney General Reno in one of our hearings, when she was trying to excuse what was going on over in the White House and the fact that the President was sitting over there coordinating millions of dollars of soft money for his personal ads to benefit his campaign, and she said: Well, soft money is not regulated. 
   I said: Soft money is not regulated. What about soft money that came from China or Indonesia or somewhere? 
   She said: Well, that would be illegal. 
   I said: Logically, it wouldn't be. If soft money is soft money, it doesn't say anything about a source. 
   Sure enough, a Federal judge agreed with my analysis. Now the court of appeals has overturned that lower court. So goodness knows where we are. But the whole question of foreign soft money is at issue now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Certainly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-5-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I will take it and pose it to him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-6-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-7-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Let me reclaim the floor, if I can. I won't be very much longer. 
   But listening to the discussion, it looks as if we need to take a step back and look at it as others have from the outside. 
   What makes me angry is reading things such as the article in the National Journal. To me--this is my view; you know what I think about the system--I think things such as this article in the National Journal and others portray a situation that is worse than it is. But it is portrayed that way because so many people believe that. 
   Our problem is this--this is no aspersion on anyone, but I am not going to shrink from it because you ask me to name names--our problem is this: When big bills come up and major industries are affected--whether it be telecommunications, whether it be banking, whether it be health care, or anything else--and the tremendous hard money contributions start coming into our respective parties, Democrat and Republican, I think people take a look at that and think there is a connection. 
   Do they think that we are necessarily being bribed? I would hope not. Because I know that not to be the case. But it 
   is, at a minimum, an appearance problem that has been with us historically. We have always recognized there is this tradeoff we are having to deal with. What we are trying to do is strike a proper balance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-8-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I will. But I would also like--now or later--to pose this: I was looking through this list, and in the first 6 months of this year, 37 companies, corporations, gave $50,000 or more to both parties--both parties. I would ask the Senator why he thinks they did that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-9-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Most of these things we are talking about are disclosed, and that does allow us to have the debate. 
   But to follow up on that for a moment, conceding, for a moment, we are using the money for noble purposes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-10-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. We are talking about motivations. The Senator brought this up. It caused me to think about this. Again, I ask you, why do you think these corporations and unions contributed that much money to both parties? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-11-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Principles of both parties simultaneously? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-12-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Partially the basis of Buckley v. Valeo, you would agree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-13-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. If I may, in the first place, the perception of potential corruption is one of the bases for Buckley v. Valeo. The Supreme Court took a look at that and they said that is a valid reason for legislating in this area. And because of that, because of that decision, what we are talking about today is not a restriction on anybody's first amendment rights. 
   I think in times past Senators had a decent point with some provisions. What we are talking about today does not impinge on the first amendment because it in some way restricts somebody to spend some money somewhere. Because they are limited in donations does not impinge on the first amendment. Buckley v. Valeo holds that also. 
   In answer to my friend, I am aware of erroneous public perceptions as well. They don't trust used car dealers much. My father was one for 50 years in the same little town. I know about all that. But I answer that when newspapers start voting, when they are sent up here and trust and confidence is placed in them to come up here and vote for the American people on these issues, then they subject themselves to the same limitations the Supreme Court says can be placed on us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-14-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. There are lots of things we used to think were against the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-15-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. The real question is, if you prove a quid pro quo, which reminds me of some of the old corruption laws we have had on the books for many years, under which there has never been a prosecution, you have to prove the high standard of a quid pro quo, which is very difficult. I think we can all agree that it is improper, whether or not it is illegal. 
   I think it raises a further question, the basic question, which is kind of the converse of the well-stated point I think the Senator from Kentucky made. The converse of that is, do appearances matter at all? Suppose we know we are trying to do the right thing, but we are seeing this tremendous influx of money at times from industries with which we are dealing on legislation. Should we be concerned about that? Perhaps we should go out and explain to the American people how that is unrelated, how the patriotic spirit of these companies and unions just happened to peak at certain times coincidentally. I am not saying that appearances should rule, but I do ask the question whether or not they should matter. 
   I yield for the purpose of an answer to the Senator from Utah. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-16-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I couldn't agree more with my colleague from Utah on that point. It points out another difficulty for those who would try to sit down and apply some kind of commonsense analysis to this and think about what it ought to be, maybe 10 years after we have left this body, something we can be proud of. We sat there, the Senator from Utah and I, for almost a year and saw the most egregious violations of propriety, ethics, 
   what ought to be illegal--some clearly was illegal. And many of our colleagues who are now calling the loudest for reform were definitely silent on those occasions. It really grieves me. I think it is extremely unfortunate that so many of us have lost our ability to take the high ground on this issue because of that. 
   Now we see a succession of semiprosecutions where nobody gets any jail time. Everybody gets a slap on  the wrist. Nobody is forced to testify against anybody else. The Attorney General gives her stamp of approval on something that nobody in their wildest imaginations thought would have been legal a few years ago. That is kind of a sidebar. 
   What I am trying to do is not let my anger over that and having watched that and gotten damn little cooperation during it cause me not to be able to try to figure out what would be best for us as a system as we go forward. 
   Briefly--I have taken too long--on the constitutional issue, I do not believe the constitutional concerns that have been expressed heretofore are with us now. We do limit hard money. Under prior law, 1974, we limited hard money to both individuals and to parties in this country. We actually prohibit unions and corporations from contributing in this country. That has been upheld as constitutional. It would not make any sense to me to say that we can limit a $1,000 contribution in hard money but we cannot limit or do anything with a million-dollar contribution in soft money when it is going for the same purpose. I think the constitutional points that were made previously no longer apply. 
   In summary, allusion has been made to perception. My concern on that is not what a public opinion poll one day or the next might say but a consistent trend of objective analysis--the Pew Research people are some that come to mind--that shows that in this time of prosperity, this time of peace, we have increasingly cynical views toward our elected officials in this country and toward our institutions. This is especially true with regard to the young people. 
   This is a generation of young people who did not experience Watergate, who did not experience Vietnam, who did not experience the assassinations we all went through as a nation. What reason do they have to be cynical? They are more prosperous than young people have ever been before. Yet the numbers indicate they are more cynical about us and what we are doing than ever before. That is what concerns me, not these petty personality disputes we have around here. 
   In 1968, 8 percent of the American people contributed to elections of any kind--Federal, State, national, local. By 1992, it had dropped to 4 percent. I don't know what it is today. But talking about contributions, that is 4 percent of the American people. So as the soft money doubles, the amount of people contributing is halved; voter turnout declines. 
   Thomas Paine, the famed agitator for the American Revolution and author of Common Sense, said this: A long habit of not thinking a thing wrong gives it a superficial appearance of being right and raises at first a formidable cry in defense of custom. 
   Let's not lock ourselves into the defense of this custom. Let us look beyond ourselves for a moment and ask ourselves: Is what we are doing going to make for a stronger country? Will it engender respect for our institutions and for this body? Will it give the average citizen more or less confidence in the integrity of his or her government? I think we know the answers to those questions. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to express my disappointment that the agriculture appropriations conference report that Congress is sending to the President does not ratify a Southern Dairy Compact that 14 state legislatures have approved. 
   I recently met with several dairy farmers from Tennessee who stressed to me the importance of the Southern Dairy Compact to their farms' survival. Dramatic fluctuations in the price of milk continue, and it is increasingly difficult for these family farms, many of which have been passed down from one generation to the next, to hang on during the hard times. Let me illustrate how dire the situation is: in the last two years, 400 dairy farms in Tennessee have been forced out of business, reducing the total number of farms producing Grade-A milk in the state to under 1,000 for first time since anyone started counting. 
   Today I will vote to cut off a filibuster on the agriculture appropriations conference report because America's farmers are in urgent need of the disaster assistance the bill provides and cannot afford any delay in its delivery, but I am no less committed to the establishment of a Southern Dairy Compact. I believe it would provide the stability in milk prices that dairy farmers need to survive and would protect the region's local supply of milk. Fourteen southern states, including Tennessee, have voted to participate in the Southern Dairy Compact, and it's now up to Congress to ratify it. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to get that done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, on June 18, 1999, Tennessee-based Lebanon Clowns celebrated their inaugural reunion at their Baseball Team Roundup in Lebanon. The Negro League baseball team gathered for the first time in over thirty years to reminisce about their youthful baseball exploits. The Clowns were a favorite among Lebanon's African-American community as they played teams from Birmingham, Alabama, Pontiac, Michigan and Nashville and Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
   The Negro Leagues were an integral part of American baseball history. A product of segregated America, it gave opportunity where opportunity did not exist. The teams were professional, pre-integration black baseball leagues in which the level of play was considered to be the equal of play in major league baseball. The first stable black league was the Negro National League organized in 1920 by Andrew ``Rube'' Foster. This league, as well as the recognized Negro National League--created by Gus Greenlee in the early 1930s--and the Negro American League, are universally regarded as having offered the highest level of play among African-American players of the day. 
   During the 1940s the Negro National and Negro American leagues reached their highest point of popularity and financial success. While fans dreamed of watching their stars compete in major league play, the eventual realization of this dream meant the end of both leagues. Some historians contend that the Negro Southern League and Texas Negro League, as well as several of the stronger independent teams during the 1920s and 1930s, offered major league caliber play. 
   The Negro National League folded under financial pressures at the end of the 1948 season. The Negro American League continued play into the late 1950s, but was no longer a stable circuit. As the talent pool of black baseball was absorbed into the integrated major and minor leagues, Negro League team owners were left without a product of sufficient quality to attract fans to the ballpark. 
   Baseball history would not be complete without recognizing Negro League teams such as the Philadelphia Stars, Newark Eagles, Bacharach Giants, Nashville Elite Giants, St. Louis Stars, and the Memphis Red Sox. The Negro Leagues brought us such great players as Willie Mays, Henry Aaron, Satchel Paige, Smokey Joe Williams, and Jackie Robinson. The players and teams of the Negro Baseball League have become a fundamental part of American culture and are forever woven into the fabric of professional baseball. The surviving players, some now in their seventies, are still as filled today with pride and love for the game as they were when they were young rookies on dusty sandlots. 
   So today, I pay tribute to the Negro League by recognizing the deceased and surviving players and managers of the Lebanon Clowns, Negro League baseball team: 
   John Forris ``Bigclue'' Griffith; Harry ``Hammerhead'' Harris, Jr.; Tommy ``Redeye'' Humes; Robert Earl ``Smiley'' Smith; Gilbert ``Sunny'' Oldham; Robert Oldham; Teddy ``Mutt'' Owens; Claude Britton; Bob ``Woods'' Oldham; L.D. ``Zeak'' Ward. 
   George McGown, Jr.; Jerry ``Foots'' Oldham, Sr.; Robert L. ``Pondwater'' McClellan; Betty Lou Oldham; Bob White; Price Logue; Norton Whitley; Roy L. Clark; Kenny Andrews. 
   James Shannon; Lee R. Rhodes; Carl Gilliam; Lonnie Gilliam; Howard Walker; Eddie Muirhead; Charles Walker; Pot Walker. 
   Herman Denny; James H. Carter; Walter ``Rabbit'' Hastings; Robert Pincky; Charlie McAdoo; Jelly Walker; John C. Martin; Junior Donnell; Frank Simpson; Lonnie Neuble. 
   Buck Hunt; Richard ``Boosem'' Owens; Elmer Draper; James Turner; Arthur Turner; C.D. Woodmore; Sammy Woodmore; Mose Alexander; James Harrison; Delmes Jackson. 
   Thomas Tubbs; Honey Johnson; John Dockins; Charlie B. Hill; Thomas Hill; Joe L. Rhodes; Fred Clark; Ramond Roberts.  
   President: Thelma ``Slick'' McAdoo. 
   Secretary: Anna Mae Palmer. 
   Managers: Roy ``Shorty'' Catron; Odell Dockins; P.J. Skeens; Tom Walker; Carl ``Bowchicken'' Rhodes.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a statement by Senator LIEBERMAN and myself regarding the ``Office of Government Ethics Authorization Act of 1999'' be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I rise to introduce legislation to grant permanent resident status to Gabriela Salinas, 11, her mother Jacqueline, and her brothers, Alejandro, 11, and Omar, Jr., 4, all of whom currently live in Tennessee. Although I am aware that private relief legislation is enacted only in rare cases, I believe that the extraordinary circumstances surrounding the Salinas family merit consideration of this bill. 
   In March of 1996, Gabriela, then seven, and her father Omar Salinas left their home in Bolivia and traveled to New York City to seek lifesaving treatment at Mt. Sinai Medical Center for Gabriela's rare bone cancer, ewing sarcoma. Gabriela, however, was denied treatment at Mt. Sinai because her family was unable to afford the $250,000 deposit required by the hospital. 
   Days later, Gabriela and her father were flown into Memphis, Tennessee, for treatment at the internationally renowned St. Jude Children's Hospital. Actress Marlo Thomas, whose father founded St. Jude, after hearing of the Salinas family's misfortunes, arranged for Gabriela to receive pro bono treatment at St. Jude. Shortly after Gabriela's chemotherapy treatment began, her mother, Jacqueline, and her three siblings joined her and her father in Tennessee. The family received an outpouring of sympathy and support from the Memphis community and looked forward to returning to Bolivia once Gabriela's treatment was completed. 
   Tragically, however, on April 14, 1997, prior to the end of Gabriela's treatment, Omar and Gabriela's 3-year old sister, Valentina, were killed in a car accident on their way back from Washington, D.C. to renew their passports. Jacqueline, seven months pregnant at the time, was permanently paralyzed from the waist down. This terrible tragedy generated national media coverage. As Jacqueline, who gave birth to a healthy baby boy two months later, had no other means of financial support, St. Jude Hospital generously stepped in to care for the family. The hospital, in fact, has made a commitment to provide full financial support for Jacqueline and her children to live permanently in the United States. 
   Because they do not meet the requirements for permanent residence under current immigration law, however, the Salinas family will be forced to leave the United States following the expiration of their tourist visas. Although Jacqueline's son, Danny, nearly two years old, is a U.S. citizen, he will not be qualified to sponsor his mother for permanent residence until he reaches the age of twenty-one. Despite her background in teaching, Jacqueline does not qualify for permanent residence under any of the employment-based visa categories. Therefore, private relief legislation is the only means by which the family will be able to remain permanently in the United States. 
   Gabriela and her family have suffered through a long and difficult ordeal. Yet, with the compassion, generosity, and support of the people of Tennessee and the nation, they have managed to start a new life. The family has settled into a new home in Memphis. The children attend school in the community. And Gabriela continues to be treated under the care of some of the best doctors in the world. With the expiration of their tourist visas approaching, it is my hope that we can act soon to prevent another tragic setback for the Salinas family. I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased to recommend H.R. 1219, the ``Construction Industry Payment Protection Act of 1999'' to the full Senate for passage. This bill, introduced in the House by a bipartisan list of cosponsors, is intended to modernize the Miller Act, one of our oldest procurement laws. The Committee on Governmental Affairs, with jurisdiction over Federal procurement laws, recognizes and appreciates the broad and strong support for this measure. 
   The Miller Act is a 1935 law requiring prime contractors with Federal construction contracts over $100,000 to provide bonds on those projects to protect those providing labor and materials. Currently, the Miller Act requires two types of bonds on Federal construction contracts: A payment bond to guarantee that subcontractors get paid, limited under the 1935 Act to $2.5 million and never adjusted for inflation; and a performance bond to protect the Federal government and ensure that the project gets finished. This bond is equal to the value of the project. 
   H.R. 1219 would amend the Miller Act to require that the payment bond be at least equal to the performance bond. It also establishes standards by which subcontractor rights under the Miller Act can be waived, and it provides for more modern methods by which claims can be noticed. 
   This bill represents an impressive consensus and several years of hard work by all the interested parties: the general contractors, the subcontractors, and the surety firms who supply the bonds. In addition, the Administration has issued a Statement of Administration Policy in support of the measure. Earlier this week, H.R. 1219 passed the House by a roll call vote of 416-0. I respectfully urge my colleagues to support this measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that will address an inequity in the tax code that affects the citizens of my state and citizens of the other states that do not have a state income tax. Tennesseans are discriminated against under federal tax laws simply because our state chooses to raise revenue primarily through a sales tax instead of an income tax. My bill would end this inequity by allowing taxpayers to deduct either their state and local sales taxes or their state and local income taxes on their federal tax forms, but not both. I am joined today by my colleague from Tennessee, Senator FRIST. 
   Under current law, individuals who itemize their deductions for federal tax purposes are only permitted to deduct state and local income taxes and property taxes paid. State and local sales  taxes are not deductible. Therefore, residents of nine states are treated differently from residents of states with an income tax. Seven states--Texas, Florida, Alaska, Wyoming, Washington, South Dakota and Nebraska--have no state income tax. Two states--Tennessee and New Hampshire--only impose an income tax on interest and dividends, but not wages. 
   Prior to 1986, taxpayers were permitted to deduct all of their state and local taxes paid (including income, sales and property taxes) when computing their federal tax liability. The ability to deduct all state and local taxes is based on the principle that levying a tax on a tax is unfair. 
   In 1986, however, Congress made dramatic changes to the tax code. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 significantly reduced federal tax rates on individuals. In exchange for these lower rates, Congress broadened the base of income that is taxed by eliminating many of the deductions and credits that previously existed in the code, including the deduction for state and local sales taxes. 
   Mr. President, I believe that our federal tax laws should be neutral with respect to the treatment of state and local taxes. As I have said, that is not the case now. The current tax code is biased in favor of states that raise revenue through an income tax. I strongly support comprehensive reform of the tax code that will address issues such as neutrality, fairness and simplicity. As we work to reform the overall tax code, restoring equality in this area should be a part of the discussion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I lend my strong support for Senate approval of S. 335, the Deceptive Mail Prevention and Enforcement Act. This bill will establish new consumer protections to shield consumers from falling victim to deceptive and fraudulent practices found in some sweepstakes and mail promotions. 
   Thanks to the hard work of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, under the leadership of Senator SUSAN COLLINS, we have become privy to the operations of some of these sweepstakes companies. As the hearings pointed out, sweepstakes companies are now sending out more than one billion mailings per year. In the course of these mailings, some recipients have been led to believe that their chances of winning large amounts of money could be increased through the purchase of the promoter's products or merchandise. Whether through the use of unclear and ambiguous language, symbols, or documents, these mailings have been a source of confusion and have lead to some readers spending significant sums of money ordering products in the mistaken belief that this would increase their chances of winning. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I rise to submit a resolution recognizing my hometown of Lawrenceburg, TN, as the official birthplace of Southern Gospel Music. 
   Lawrenceburg is not a large town by any means, nor is it altogether prominent in the political landscape. What this humble town lacks in size, however, it more than makes up for with its importance in the history of American music. Since the turn of the 20th century, Lawrenceburg has been the home of Southern Gospel Music, a musical tradition embraced and perpetuated by talented and dedicated artists. 
   The roots of Southern Gospel Music reach back to some of the most gifted songwriters of our time, such as Adger Pace, James Rowe, G.T. Speer, William Walbert, and the great James D. Vaughan. Vaughan went on to found the first Southern Gospel Music quartet in Lawrenceburg in 1910. He also founded, in Lawrenceburg, the Vaughan School of Music and the James D. Vaughan Music Company. This school helped train the first generation of Southern Gospel Music artists, such as V.O. Stamps, Frank Stamps, the Speers, and the LeFevers, while the music company published millions of shape-note Southern Gospel Music songbooks during its existence from 1902 until 1964. 
   Lawrenceburg was also integral in getting the word out to the world that Southern Gospel Music was on its way. Along with the many traveling quartets originating from the training ground of the Vaughan School of Music, Lawrenceburg was the home of the first influential Southern Gospel Music newspaper, The Vaughan Family Visitor, which began publication in 1914. Eight short years later the first Southern Gospel Music radio station WOAN was founded, also in Lawrenceburg. 
   With the endorsement of the Southern Gospel Music Association, which has designated Lawrenceburg the birthplace of Southern Gospel Music, I proudly ask my colleagues to support this resolution recognizing Lawrenceburg, TN, as the official birthplace of Southern Gospel Music. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise to oppose this amendment. 
   Employer sponsorship of defined benefit pension plans have been declining over the last few years, mainly due to the increased regulatory burden that Congress and the IRS has placed on employers who offer these plans to employees. 
   This amendment would also substantially impair the employer's ability to design and change their pension plans to meet the changing needs of the business and of the employees. In addition, it would punish good corporate citizens who maintain pension plans while leaving other companies free to terminate their plans in order to get from under this new law. 
   We have dealt with the concerns that participants do not know or understand changes to their pension plans with the more expansive disclosure requirements that are contained in this bill. 
   We should focus on revitalizing the defined pension system, rather than adding new burdens on employers who voluntarily establish these plans. For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. 
   Mr. President, I make a point of order against the amendment under section 305 of the Budget Act on the grounds that it is not germane. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, no one in this chamber thinks other than that we want a real, sound, solid, and solvent Social Security system and Medicare system. Most of us, however, realize we will only have that if we have fundamental reforms in those systems, such as that proposed by the Medicare commission at which the President scoffed. 
   This amendment will serve to actually make Social Security and Medicare less sound. It will actually delay the process of real reform. The solvency dates that are used in this legislation are taken from the President's proposal and will invariably result in pouring more and more general revenues into these entitlement programs, delaying the day when we have to face up to the fact that we have to have fundamental reform. 
   Our bill sets aside 75 percent of the surplus for Medicare, Social Security, debt retirement, and other spending priorities. With regard to the 25 percent remaining, there is no reason to delay tax cuts. 
   If we saved every penny of the surplus, put it into Medicare and Social Security, it would not do one thing toward solving the fundamental problem. 
   This language is not germane to the bill now before us; therefore, I raise a point of order, under section 305(b)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I think Senator GRAMM is bringing a very important principle to the table, one that we need to address: If we are going to have a tax cut, what kind of tax cut should we have? What is best for the economy, and what is fair? 
   There was a consensus in this country, 10, 15 years ago, that we needed to have a tax policy based upon a broader base and lower rates. That is essentially the tax bill that came out in 1986. We came down to two tax rates. We had a 15-percent and a 28-percent tax rate. There was a broader base, where more people were paying taxes, but lower rates. 
   In the 1990s, we have gotten away from that. We have gotten away from that principle and gone, instead, toward what has been referred to as targeted tax cuts. That its basically the Government--we, the President--that decide, on an individual basis, who deserves the tax break or tax cut in any particular year. Usually it is based upon how much clout they have, or some notions of fairness of a particular congressional makeup at some particular time. So now we have wound up with higher rates and a narrower base. We now have five income tax rates instead of the two we had back in 1986 in addition to phaseouts. The Tax Code, not only do we have additional rates, it has become more progressive, even in addition to those rates. 
   I do not think a lot of people are aware of this. I think most Americans think initially, basically, they can look at tax rates and see what their tax burden is. But then you look at all the phaseouts that we have. Congress has decided in its wisdom that people of a certain income level do not deserve some of the deductions, exemptions, and benefits that others deserve. So we have a personal exemption phaseout. 
   We have an itemized deduction phaseout at basically the $124,000 level for individuals. I am talking about individuals and not couples, in terms of the dollar amounts I am using. The personal exemption phaseout; itemized deduction phaseout, limitation of only being able to deduct that amount over 2 percent of itemized deductions; a 7.5 percent floor on medical deductions; a 10 percent adjusted gross income floor on casualty deductions; a $500 child credit that phases out at an income level of $75,000; a dependent child credit that begins to be phased out at an income level of $10,000--if you make that much it begins to be phased out; a deductible IRA, $30,000; an education IRA, $95,000; the HOPE credit, college credit, begins to be phased out at $40,000 for an individual. So we want to help you go to college, we want to help your kids go to college--as long as you do not have a job, basically is what that amounts to. 
   We have a life-time learning credit of $40,000; student loan interest deductions, at $40,000 it begins to be phased out; education savings bond interest--if you make $52,000 you begin to lose that; elderly/disabled credit, $7,500; adoption credit/exclusion, $75,000; DC first time homebuyer--if you make $75,000, you begin to have that phased out as a taxpaying individual; rental real estate losses; rehabilitation tax credit--on and on and on. 
   In addition to continuing to raise the tax rate--the highest one in 1986 was 28 percent and now it is up to 39.6 percent plus the maximum--plus the limited itemized deductions and phaseout of personal exemptions, you wind up with an effective rate of over 40 percent. When you remove the cap on Medicare tax, plus these phaseouts, you are looking at, in some cases, close to an effective 45-percent tax rate, something like that. 
   My only point is that, as we decide how to go forward, we need to understand that we have a progressive system as far as our income Tax Code is concerned, and that is the way it ought to be. 
   A lot of people believe it is that way. But every time we have a tax cut, we cannot say let's give everybody the same dollar amount back in taxes regardless of how much they paid in because we have a very progressive system. 
   We have progressive tax rates up to 39.6 percent, with phaseouts so that if you are making any money, if people are working hard and making a pretty good living, they begin to lose the deductions and credits. That makes it even more progressive. 
   We come along and say we are going to give a tax cut now, and we say if the other guy is paying twice as much in taxes as I am, give him a tax cut. He lost all these exemptions because he is making good money. He is paying twice as much in taxes. But we come along with a tax cut and we say they are going to both get the same amount back? I do not think that makes much sense. 
   Let's say the economy was good and we were able to have successive tax cuts over a period of time and we gave the same dollar amount back to everybody regardless of how much they were paying in taxes. We would have a narrower and narrower base all the time and fewer and fewer people paying any taxes at all. We would continually be taking people off the tax rolls. We already have 43 million people who do not pay taxes. 
   As progressive as our Tax Code is, as does the Senator from Texas, I make no apologies for the proposition that when it comes time for a tax cut, let's base the tax cut on how much people are paying in. 
   We have to ask ourselves a fundamental question: Are we interested in punishing folks who make a good living or are we interested in collecting money for the Federal Government to pay legitimate Government expenses? History shows every time we have had a reduction in tax rates, we have more money. Every time the Government reduces rates in any appreciable amount, the Government winds up getting more money. 
   In the 1920s, it was true. In the 1960s, under President Kennedy, who said a rising tide lifts all boats, it was true. In the much maligned 1980s, which laid the groundwork for the greatest economic prosperity this world has ever known, it was true. 
   Increased revenues in the twenties was 61 percent over a 7-year period. In the sixties, a revenue increase after inflation was about 33 percent. In the eighties, after cutting the tax rates, revenues increased 28 percent because it reduced the incentive to hide income, to shelter income, and to underreport income. 
   Similarly, the share of the tax burden paid by the rich rose dramatically as the rates fell. By cutting rates, we get more money out of the rich. 
   Do we want to be concerned about how much somebody is making and try to hold that down or do we want the money for the Federal Government? I thought the idea was to have a fair Tax  Code but to raise the money for the legitimate expenses of the Federal Government. 
   In the 1920s, they called rich $50,000. I guess things have not changed that much. But in 1921, the rich paid 44 percent of the income tax. In 1928, after the rate cut, they paid 78 percent of all taxes. The gap was not quite as pronounced later on, but in 1963 under President Kennedy, at the time of the cut, the rich were paying 11.6 percent of all the 
   taxes being paid. In 1966, they were paying 15.1 percent. In the 1980s, we were talking about the top 10 percent---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I ask for another 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. In the 1980s--1981--the rich were paying 48 percent of the taxes. In 1988, they wound up paying 57 percent of the taxes. We do not get a lot of credit taking up for the rich, but our responsibility as public servants is to look out for the country and have policies that are going to get the most money and not try to be too concerned about who is going to get this share of the economic pie: I am going to get yours; you are not going to get mine. Our concern should be with making that economic pie better. 
   As far as an across-the-board cut is concerned, every serious observer nowadays thinks it is sound economic policy. Lawrence Lindsey, former Federal Reserve Board member, George Shultz, former Secretary of State, and even the oft quoted Chairman Greenspan--there may be some discussion as to when he thinks a tax cut should come about, but he says when it comes about, it ought to be an across-the-board rate reduction. This is sound economic policy. 
   I know the prospects for this particular amendment, but all of this business about soak the rich and unfairness, we need to keep a little balance and keep things in mind. If we want more money, if we want to be fair--first of all, we have to recognize we have a very progressive system in this country, so when it comes time for a tax cut, let's pay some attention to the idea of across the board and not have politicians deciding the detailed targeted tax cuts for their favorite people, but make it across the board. It is more fair, and it will get more money for the Federal Treasury. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-5-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. With the committee chairman's approval, I yield myself 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-6-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, on the amendment there are certain basic things we can all agree with about education. I think most of us realize the economic prosperity we have today has to do with our productivity. Our productivity, in turn, has to do in large part with the technological advances we have had, and that, in turn, is based upon a well-qualified workforce. The needs for that kind of workforce, that kind of background and training in the future, are going to be even greater because we are exploding with information in an information age for sure. 
   There is no question about that. Our economic stability and security in the long term in large part is going to depend on the education system we have. That, of course, does not necessarily equate to Federal spending on education. Unfortunately, for some years now we have seen that we have almost an inverse relationship between the amount of Federal money spent on education and the quality of education we seem to be getting. Nonetheless, we all agree there is a part of this effort that should fall on our shoulders. This amendment suggests our budget does not address this education problem sufficiently. 
   I think it has been a good discussion. I think it is one we ought to have. Every time I begin thinking we can have good discussion about this, I pick up something, such as the Daily Report for Executives of July 29 that is entitled, ``GOP Tax Plan Would Hurt Schools, President And Administration Aides Say.''  
   Clinton told representatives of Boys and Girls Nation at the White House that the Republican tax plan would eliminate funds to help 480,000 children learn to read.  
   On and on for other things. I know when I came to Washington, one of the main things I wanted to do was keep children from reading. We spend a lot of time, we stay up late at night, figuring out how we can keep kids from learning to read. The President is just verifying this with these young people. 
   I hope the President, as badly as he is misleading them, has more credibility with the young people of this Nation than I think he has. 
   Now we hear about cuts. We have been hearing about cuts of 30 percent, cuts of 40 percent, and now cuts of 50 percent. People must wonder what is going on. Senator DOMENICI says that is not accurate. He points out that although we have a baseline freeze after the spending caps are lifted, there is an additional $505 billion in our budget proposal that can be used for whatever discretionary spending this President and this Congress decide they want to spend it on. 
   How do we come up with these cuts? It is a Washington, DC, cut. A Washington, DC, cut is when you project out what you want spending to be, and then any spending that is less than that constitutes a cut. It is not a real cut. It is an increase, but it is less than what the projection would be. 
   If you are going by that kind of rationale, then the President is proposing cuts up to 26 percent, if you figure in his Social Security plan, because he does not really keep up with the projections that are being argued. 
   Go back to 1991 and project increases from 1991 up to today. Look and see what that is. It has been about 4.2 percent during that period of time. What the other side is doing is projecting that out ad infinitum. If we cut back any of those programs, even though the dollar is an increase, it is less than what they projected it ought to be, so that constitutes a cut. 
   The fact is, if we did what our colleagues on the other side suggest, we would lock in basically the projected increases we would have--inflation plus--we would lock those in, basically making them, I suppose, mandatory programs instead of discretionary programs. We would not do what Congress is supposed to do, and that is sit down and decide what our priorities are, what programs should be cut, and what programs should not be cut. 
   Obviously, many of us think some programs should be increased. We are hearing a lot now about our hospital programs, our children's hospitals, veterans, certainly military in some respects. Certainly, there are going to have to be some increases as we go along, but I think the primary point I want to make is that there are also going to have to be some decreases. There are going to have to be some cuts. 
   Those are the kinds of things we are going to have to decide. We cannot decide here in advance, because some projection is not reached, that we are going to cut a particular program to keep kids from reading--pick your own favorite program, the worst thing you can come up with, and say that particular program is going to be cut. That is not true. That is not accurate. That does not represent what the situation is. 
   Again, we have to decide what is going to be cut. We have to decide what is going to be increased, taking a baseline, taking a freeze, not including inflation, and adding $505 billion to it over 10 years. 
   Why do I say that some things ought to be cut? One of the things--I guess the primary thing--we are supposed to be doing in the Governmental Affairs Committee is seeing how our Government is operating. We spend an awful lot of time in oversight in that committee which I chair. We see agencies, Departments of Government, year after year come before us and they have been delineated by the GAO as prime objects of waste, fraud, and abuse. They are on the list year after year, but we 
   keep funding these programs. We keep increasing the funding for these programs, whether they are working or not. There are billions of dollars of scarce resources diverted from their intended purposes many times in waste, fraud, and abuse. 
   The President in his budget does not find one agency, that I can determine, that he believes could be operated more efficiently or in which money could be spent better. All of these programs deserve an increase by definition. They are Federal Government programs. They deserve an increase. If you want to reduce funding for a Department or an agency, then you can pick the program on the other side they say you are cutting. 
   The honest truth is that no one knows really how much the Federal Government loses annually cumulatively to waste, fraud, abuse, and error. One reason is that most agencies do not keep track of such losses. We try to keep track for them, as best we can. 
   Here are a few things we have learned: The Health Care Financing Administration made erroneous Medicare payments that siphoned off between 7 and 14 percent of the overall Medicare budget, $12 billion to $24 billion, depending on which year you are talking about. In 1997, it was $24 billion. In 1998, they improved; it was only $12 billion. 
   The Supplemental Security Income Program--cumulative overpayments of $3.3 billion, including newly detected overpayments of $1.2 billion just last year.  
   The Department of Housing and Urban Development made overpayments in its rent subsidy program of almost $1 billion. 
   The Department of Agriculture made overpayments in its Food Stamp Program that amounted to about $1 billion, or 5 percent of the total program. 
   I have others here. The Federal tax debt. We have Federal tax debt and nontax debt delinquencies, money owed to the Government, not collected, of $150 billion. I have other items. I mentioned the Medicare payments. 
   The Department of Energy: Through 1980 to 1996, the Department of Energy terminated before completion 31 major systems acquisition projects after expenditures of over $10 billion. They spent $10 billion and then terminated the projects; $10 billion was essentially wasted. 
   Defense contract overpayments: No one knows how much the Government overpays each year in contracts for goods and services. However, during the recent 5-year period, defense contractors returned $4.6 billion in overpayments to the Department of Defense. 
   Earned income tax credit, $4.4 billion. 
   I mentioned SSI. 
   Student loan defaults, $3.3 billion. 
   Food stamp overpayments, rent subsidy. 
   A total of $196 billion. 
   I yield myself another 5 minutes. 
   Mr. President, $196 billion, and that is just on the waste, fraud, and abuse side. This is what is going on with regard to our Government now and these agencies across our Government. 
   Look at the cross-cutting and the duplication, the hundreds of programs that are all designed to do the same thing. The left hand of Government does not know what the right hand is doing. No one is taking action to sort through this morass to find out which programs are working and are not. They keep being refunded every year at the full amount or an increased amount. 
   According to the GAO, in program area after program area, unfocused and uncoordinated cross-cutting programs waste scarce funds, confuse and frustrate taxpayers and other program customers, and limit overall program effectiveness. 
   Last year Congress tried to address the number of education programs. We are all for education. We are all for spending education money wisely. We have $505 billion of discretionary spending set aside, some of which we can spend on education. But we found out there were 39 Federal agencies running more than 760 education programs at a cost of $100 billion a year. Is that effective use of taxpayers' money? 
   One example is homelessness where 50 Federal programs, run by eight agencies, seek to provide services to homeless people. We have eight agencies--the Departments of Agriculture, Health and Human Services, Housing, Urban Development, Education, Labor, Veterans Affairs--and two independent agencies--FEMA and the Social Security Administration--all running these programs, overlapping, duplicating with $1.2 billion in obligated funds addressing the homeless. GAO found these programs provide many of the same services, such as housing, health care, job training, and transportation, and more than 20 programs operated by four different agencies, offsetting housing, such as emergency shelters, transitional housing, and other housing assistance. 
   In another report, the GAO identified 26 Federal grants at a cost of approximately $28 million that exist to help evaluate the effectiveness of various school-based violence programs. I know that is something that the Presiding Officer and I have talked about many times, as to how we get our arms around this. But $28 million to evaluate these violence programs in schools, to see which of them are doing any good? At least three Federal Departments--Education, Health and Human Services, and Justice --support school-based violence prevention research and programs. 
   However, GAO found that these individual Departments have not mounted a comprehensive strategy for addressing school violence. They are just all kind of out there doing their own thing--getting some money, coming to Congress, saying: My goodness, you can't cut back on this. You have to give us some money. We fund these various programs that are all out there doing their own things--uncoordinated--obviously, wasting a 
   good deal of money. 
   It is not that you do not want the effort made; it is that you want to have the effort made with a little common sense and not take people's hard-earned money and throw it down a rat hole. 
   We have a fragmented Federal approach to ensure the safety and quality of the Nation's food. As many as 12 different agencies administer over 35 inefficient programs, putting the American public at greater danger of foodborne illnesses. But there have been virtually no decreases for nonmilitary discretionary programs in the President's budget. 
   This is supposed to be part of our job. That is why we passed the Performance and Results Act. These agencies are now supposed to come to us in Congress and tell us of the effectiveness of their programs. I assume that because we want that information, we want to do something with it, and what we want to do with that information is not use it to continue to fund these Departments that are wasting money and permitting fraud to be perpetrated upon us to the tune of billions and billions of dollars. 
   Some of these programs are mandatory spending programs. Some of them are discretionary spending programs. But it is all money that would have been in those Departments had it not been siphoned off, had it not been stolen, had it not been wasted. It would have been reflected in the budgetary requests when they came before us. The requests would be less, and we would be giving them less money if they were operating halfway the way they are supposed to. 
   My point is, again, this idea that our friends on the other side of the aisle have, that they want to have this projected rate of increase that we can't deviate from at all, is a notion that would go against every basic precept of efficiency and the proper functioning of Government. 
   I yield myself another 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-7-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. We need to, as we go along, take that $505 billion that our budget sets aside for these programs and have every one of them come up here and justify themselves. Some of them need increases. Some of them need cuts. In my opinion, some of them need total elimination, and I make no apologies for that. 
   But the idea that we are cutting this, and we are cutting that, and we are going to keep people from reading, the President of the United States telling these young boys and girls that we are going to cut 480,000 children from learning to read, that is kind of a new low. We do not know really what to do any more with this stuff. The first thing you do is get kind of angry, and then you are just kind of sad, shaking your head, that that sort of stuff is coming out of the White House. 
   So let's get back to the facts. Let's get back to reality. We can have a good debate as to how much money we ought to spend on these programs. That is what we ought to do. But let's not try to convince the American people that we have made a determination that somewhere in our budget we are cutting kids off from learning to read or that we are doing any of these other things--any of these other scare tactics that are always used by people who think that the American people are not quite as smart as they really are. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I rise to introduce the Taxpayer's Defense Act of 1999. I am pleased to be working with my good friend from Missouri, JOHN ASHCROFT, who has been a leader on this issue in the Senate. I also want to thank Chairman GEORGE GEKAS for all of his hard work and leadership in the House. Our objective is clear and simple: no federal agency should set or raise a tax without the approval of Congress. 
   America was founded on the principle that there should be no taxation without representation. In The Second Treatise of Government, John Locke said, ``[I]f any one shall claim a power to lay and levy taxes on the people *.*.* without *.*.* consent of the people, he thereby *.*.* subverts the end of government.'' Consent, according to Locke, could only be given by a majority of the people, ``either by themselves  or their representatives chosen by them.'' The Boston Tea Party celebrated Americans' opposition to taxation without representation. And the Declaration of Independence listed, among the despotic acts of King George, his ``imposing Taxes on us without our Consent.'' First among the powers that the Constitution gave to the Congress, our new government's representative branch, was the power to levy taxes. 
   The logic of allowing only Congress to establish federal taxes is clear: Congress considers and weighs the economic and social issues that rise to national importance. While any agency or government office may view its own priorities as paramount, only Congress can decide which goals of the people merit spending hard-earned taxpayer dollars. Only Congress can determine how many taxpayer dollars should be spent. Congress' decisions are made through an open political process that the public can see and participate in. And if the public is unhappy with a tax, they can hold Congress and the President responsible on election day. 
   The accountability of lawmakers is a core feature of our representative democracy. But over time, Congress has delegated more and more of its legislative authority to unaccountable federal agencies. The Taxpayer's Defense Act would help restore constitutional balance and authority by requiring congressional approval for a rule that sets or raises a tax before the rule could take effect. Unelected agency officials could not directly establish or raise a tax, but would still have a chance to advance their proposals through an open political process in Congress. 
   Few would publicly dispute the American principle of no taxation without representation. But increasingly, in ways often subtle or hidden, federal agencies are taking on--or receiving from Congress--the power to tax. Federal agency taxes pass the costs of government programs on to American consumers in the form of higher prices. These secret taxes often are regressive--hitting many who struggle to get by. They also put a drag on the economy. These taxes take money from everyone, and they are imposed without accountability. 
   One big example of agency taxation is the Federal Communications Commission's Universal Service Tax. ``Universal service'' is the idea that everyone should have access to affordable telecommunications services. It originated at the beginning of the century when the 
   nation was still being strung with telephone wires. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 included provisions that allowed the FCC to extend universal service, ensuring that telecommunications are available to all areas of the country and to institutions that benefit the community, such as schools, libraries, and rural health care facilities. 
   Most importantly, the Act gave the FCC the power to decide the level of ``contributions''--taxes--that telecommunications providers would have to pay to support universal service. The FCC must determines how much can be collected in taxes to subsidize a variety of ``universal service'' spending programs. It charges telecommunications providers, who pass the costs on to consumers in the form of higher telephone bills. The FCC recently nearly doubled the tax to $2.5 billion per year, and Administration's budget have projected a rise to $10 billion per year. This agency tax is already out of control. 
   The FCC's provisions for universal service have many flaws. These include the three ``administrative corporations'' set by the FCC. The General Accounting Office determined that the establishment of these corporations was illegal, and the FCC has collapsed them into one, no less questionable corporation. The head of one of these corporations was originally paid $200,000 per year--as much as the President of the United States. 
   It seems that the more you look, the more you find that a number of federal agencies have been given, or discovered on their own, the power of tax. Congress has given taxing authority to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Because these taxes are within statutory parameters, we have less concern with them than others, but they are still taxes. And an important principle is at stake: no taxation within representation. The Constitution gives the taxing power only to Congress. In practice, we often see a direct correlation between an agency taxing and the agency overspending taxpayer dollars. Congress must retain the power and accountability of the purse. 
   More egregious examples are those where agencies have spontaneously discovered the power to tax. There's the FCC's telecommunications tax, and two new taxes, past and proposed, on Internet domain name registration. The first, sponsored by the National Science Foundation, collected more than $60 million before a federal judge put a stop to it. The second, under the aegis of the Commerce Department, proposes to charge $1 per Internet domain name per year. What Commerce Department official stands to be voted out of office if he or she sponsors an increase in this tax? 
   The burden of this activity falls, of course, on the American taxpayer, whose money is being taken, laundered through the Washington bureaucracy, and returned (in dramatically reduced amounts) for purposes set by unelected agency staffers. This is why we must require the FCC, and all agencies, to get the approval of Congress before setting future tax rates. 
   Some of my colleagues may question why Congress should shoulder the responsibility for taxes. Let me just note that in a recent fee-dispute case, the FCC argued, amazingly, that it had the unreviewable power to raise taxes. As the Court of Appeals put it:  
   [A]ccording to counsel, the Commission could impose a tax on an unregulated railroad or a tax on an individual for eating ice cream.........This is a preposterous position, one that we will not countenance. As this court [has] said.......``it goes without saying that the bald assertion of power by [an] agency cannot legitimize it. Unable to link its assertion of authority to any statutory provision, the [FCC's] position in this case amounts to be bare suggestion that it possesses plenary authority to act within a given area simply because Congress has endowed it with some authority to act in that area. We categorically reject that suggestion.''--Comsat Corporation v. FCC, 114 F. 3d 223, 227 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (citations omitted).  
   Should tax dollars be used for federal programs? In what amounts? Or should Americans spend what they earn on their own, locally determined priorities? Requiring Congress to review agency taxes would answer this question. 
   This legislation would create a new subchapter within the Congressional Review Act for mandatory review of certain rules. The portion of any agency rule that establishes or raises a tax would have to be submitted to Congress and receive the approval of Congress and the President before the agency could put it into effect. The Act would allow the agencies to formulate tax proposals for Congress to consider under existing rulemaking procedures. It is a version of a bill introduced last Congress by Chairman GEKAS in the House and JOHN ASHCROFT in the Senate. 
   Once submitted to Congress, a bill noting the taxing portion of a regulation would be introduced (by request) in each House of Congress by the Majority Leader. The bill would then be subject to expedited procedures, allowing a prompt decision on whether or not the agency may put the rule into effect. The rule could take effect once a bill approving it was passed by both Houses of Congress and signed by the President. If the rule were approved, the agency would retain power to reverse the regulation, lower the amount of the tax, or take any otherwise legal actions with respect to the rule. 
   Mr. President, the rallying cry of ``no taxation without representation'' has been heard in America before, and now we are hearing it again. Congress must not allow unelected bureaucrats determine the amount of taxes hardworking Americans must pay. While preserving needed flexibility, the Taxpayer's Defense Act will allow elected officials alone to decide whether to raise taxes, and where to direct precious tax dollars. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I thank the Chair. I thank the chairman. 
   First of all, I want to align myself with the comments of our previous speaker, Senator KERREY. I think he is right on all points. 
   I think the question really boils down to a very simple one; that is, whether or not with a $3 trillion surplus it is reckless and dangerous to give 25 percent back to the people who created it. Or stated another way, now that we apparently are going to be in surplus, is this a time for a tax cut or a tax increase. 
   The President actually over the next 10 years proposes a tax increase and $1 trillion more in spending as opposed to the tax cut we have proposed. 
   So it is really a very basic philosophical difference that we have here. 
   First of all, I look at the tax burden we have today. 
   The reason we have this surplus, of course, is because of unprecedented revenues that are flowing into the Federal Treasury. 
   The primary reason for that is the unprecedented portion of Federal income tax revenues that are flowing into the Treasury. 
   The income tax portion of the gross domestic product has now reached 10 percent, which is an all-time high in the history of the United States of America. 
   The average two-earner income family is paying 38 percent in taxes. 
   Someone reminded me the other day that even the serfs in feudal times only had to pay a third to their masters, and these families are paying 38 percent. 
   Tax day now is May 11. We are working for the Government until May 11 of every year. Tax revenue has doubled just since 1987. We have this record level of tax revenues as a share of our gross domestic product. 
   What do we do about that? This bill, first of all, is addressed to the lower and middle-income taxpayer. It is addressed to the small businessperson who is out there working every day to make a living.  
   It gives some relief to those who want to save. It gives some relief to folks who want to invest. It gives some relief to folks who want to marry. And it gives some relief to folks who maybe after paying taxes all of their lives, when they die, don't want to have the family farm or their business sold just to pay the tax man again. 
   It gives some relief to all of those folks. It will not hurt the economy, as previous speakers have pointed out. As Chairman Greenspan has pointed out, it is phased in. It is only about $38 billion for tax relief for the first 2 years. 
   The President has more spending in his proposal--over $50 billion during the same period of time. If you worried about the stimulus effect of the economy, talk to the President. Don't talk to us about this bill. It reduces the Federal debt more than the President's proposal does. 
   But in response to this kind of tax burden, and in response to this reasonable--as Senator KERREY said ``no brainer,'' really not even a close call--response to a situation like that where we have this unprecedented situation, we have seen an unprecedented amount of inside-the-beltway hyperventilation. 
   The President, the Vice President, and members of the White House have taken to the airwaves wringing their hands, and a different part of the sky has fallen every day. We are going to pollute the streams, our kids are not going to be educated, our military is going to go in disrepair, and the Republicans are not looking out for the military anymore. And, that old reliable standby, ``We are going to harm Social Security and Medicare if we have tax cuts.'' It is called ``dangerous''--a ``dangerous tax cut.'' 
   I think that assumes a level of ignorance among the American people that does not exist. I don't have time to talk about all of the accusations and charges and points that have been made to do anything but have tax relief this year. 
   I will discuss one or two in the limited amount of time we have. Perhaps we can address the others later. 
   With regard to Social Security and Medicare, of course we all know it is a problem. Senator KERREY pointed out the nature of the problem a minute ago again. It is not as if we don't understand the problem. It is not as if we will not have to face up to it. The question is when. 
   We have a demographic time bomb on our hands that will affect Social Security and Medicare. We are an aging society. Some people say that is not a bad problem, that we are living longer. That is right. However, we have to make some changes precisely because of that if we are not going to ruin our kids and grandkids. 
   In the year 2030, we will have twice as many people over the age of 65 as we have today. Currently, we have almost four workers for every retiree; in 2030 we will have two workers for every retiree. After the baby boomer generation we will have a smaller population, and a smaller and smaller workforce, with a doubling of the people drawing out these funds. It will not work. 
   We have made some progress, at least in advancing the debate on these issues on a bipartisan basis. It is the first time I have seen issues of this magnitude and of this importance seriously addressed on a bipartisan basis. It is very encouraging. 
   We had a Medicare commission with Democrats and Republicans, chaired by Senator BREAUX, that addressed this Medicare problem in a serious fashion. The President's response to that was to scuttle the majority will of that Medicare commission trying to make fundamental reforms because they told us something we already knew; that is, we can't just keep pouring money into a broken, worn out, outdated system. 
   I think as Senator BREAUX once said: You put gasoline into an old, beat up, worn out car and it is still going to be an old, broken down, beat up old car. Instead of pouring more money on top of the system, we need fundamental reform. We tried to do that. The President's response was to scuttle it. 
   On Social Security, we had bipartisan bills in the Senate, with Democrats and Republicans working together for serious Social Security reform biting the bullet. It is not the easiest thing politically to do but somebody has to do it. The Democrats and Republicans together are doing it. 
   The President was looked upon to have a little leadership. Perhaps in these last couple of years he will want to exert some leadership when he is not having to run for reelection. His response was not to show leadership, but to back away from serious reform, saying he will put $100 million worth of IOUs into the Social Security trust fund which does nothing to save Social Security, and represents nothing more than a tremendous tax burden down the line when those treasuries are redeemed by our kids and grandkids. 
   While they are saying you can't have a tax cut, you can't have a tax cut, we have to save all this money for Social Security and Medicare, at the same time they are doing everything in the world over at the White House to prevent any real reform for Social Security and Medicare. 
   What about the question should we be saving all of the surplus for Social Security and Medicare and others? The short answer is we are taking 75 percent of these surplus dollars and devoting it to those very areas by means of a lockbox, by means 
   of setting aside Social Security, Medicare, other spending priorities. Mr. President, 75 percent goes to those things. 
   I think the more important point we will hear time and time again is the President and Vice President on the airwaves hoping people will believe we are doing something bad to Social Security and Medicare if we pass a tax cut. The primary point is that these surpluses we are talking about are pretty much irrelevant to Social Security and Medicare. As the Comptroller General pointed out, if we put every penny in savings, if we put every penny of surplus into Social Security and Medicare, it would do nothing to change or rectify the fundamental inherent problems we face with those two programs. 
   I think we can cite the Comptroller, as well as GAO, in saying the President's proposal actually makes the Social Security and Medicare situation worse by pouring additional water into a leaky bucket with the hole in the bottom getting bigger and bigger and bigger, and all the time having to pour more and more water on top. What we are doing is buying a little time from the day of reckoning and convincing people in the short run all they have to do is concentrate on the short run. Don't think about down the road. Don't think about your kids or grandkids. We will not address serious reform but we will start dipping into general revenues instead of having some control with dedicated tax dollars, FICA tax money, dedicated to these particular programs. Then we can keep up with it and see how we are doing, know when we are in trouble. Forget that. We dip into general revenues. We have an extra amount and we will dip into general revenues without any control, without any way to tell how we are doing. 
   That is totally, totally irresponsible. Yet after doing everything they can to undermine the Social Security and Medicare long-term problem solution the Democrats and Republicans have been trying to work on, after doing everything they can to work against that, they, in turn, use that as a shield to say: Because we are not willing to address that, you have to go along with us and spend an extra $1 trillion to temporarily buy a few more years. Then they hope somebody will come down the road later on with more political courage to address the problem. 
   I think that is outrageous. Tax cuts have nothing to do with that problem. We set aside 75 percent of the surplus for those matters to start with, but tax cuts have nothing to do with the fundamental problem we are facing. 
   The only reason I can see for this kind of overreaction to a tax cut with these unprecedented surpluses is that the administration feels like a person who has been wronged, an injustice has been done to them, on the premise that it is the Government's money to start with and somebody has improperly tried to take that money away from them. 
   For some folks, there will never be a good time for a tax cut. Over the last few years, the President recommended three tax increases in times of deficits. Now we have a time of surpluses and his response is more tax increases. I think it is a debate not just over tax dollars; it is a debate over power. The folks in Washington don't want to give up power. It is a question of who is going to make decisions with regard to  people's lives. Will Washington collect money and dole it out as we see fit? Or are we going to leave it in the taxpayers' hands, at least 25 percent of the amount of money about which we are talking? 
   It is not this tax cut that is dangerous. What is dangerous is a government that can never, ever go but in one direction: eating a bigger and bigger percentage of what we produce in this country. What is dangerous is an administration that will use this kind of debate to mask over the fact it is not willing to face up to timely problems. That is what is dangerous. I think the American people see that. 
   I think the American people support this bill. I support this bill and urge its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Michigan. I thank the Presiding Officer. 
   Stepping back from what we have been talking about for the last few minutes, I will go back and address the issue at hand concerning the lockbox. 
   I think it is important to keep in mind what we are about here and what the essential question is. The essential question remains whether or not when we are faced with projected substantial surpluses, 25 percent of that amount should be returned to the people who created those surpluses. That is the American taxpayer. I think that question should answer itself. 
   Another way to put it is whether or not, in view of these surpluses, we need a tax cut or a tax increase. You would think that question would answer itself. You would think that certainly in a surplus situation you would have to seriously consider tax cuts under those circumstances. 
   We have a tremendous tax burden right now. Taxes are taking a greater and greater share of our economic productivity. Income taxes alone have reached the level of 10 percent of gross domestic product, the highest they have ever been in this country. 
   A two-earner family nowadays pays 38 percent of their income in taxes. You would think that surely we could reach agreement that now is the time for a decent tax cut for the American people. If not now, when? 
   Our Democratic colleague, Senator KERREY from Nebraska, put it well earlier today. He said: I don't even think it is a close call--that under these circumstances we should have a tax cut. 
   But what we are dealing with now, with regard to the Democratic amendment, is another reason why they say we should not have a tax cut. 
   We have seen time and time again over the last few days almost utter hysteria in this town primarily from the White House, the President, the Vice President, and their spokespeople wringing their hands giving one reason after another after another why we cannot possibly have a tax cut under these circumstances. It is going to destroy the economy; old folks are going to be put out on the street; we are going to pollute the environment; women's health issues are coming into play. 
   It is substantial overkill, and it is based upon the fact that they are not telling the truth about the elements of what they are trying to do; that is, essentially give us a tax increase instead of a tax cut and spend an additional $1 trillion-plus. 
   Now what we have as part of the reason why we can't have a tax cut is we want to protect Medicare and Social Security, and, in this particular amendment we are addressing, the question of a Medicare lockbox. 
   I think one of the essential questions before this Congress is, What is the responsible way to protect Medicare? We all know we have a substantial problem. We all know we are going to have to address it. 
   What happened in response to that was a bipartisan effort by the Medicare Commission, chaired by Senator BREAUX from Louisiana. They came up with real reform because everybody knows you can't keep pouring money on top of a system that is broken, that is flawed, that is out of date, that is uneconomical, and that everybody says has to be changed. We can disagree on how to do it, but everybody says and recognizes that we have to have fundamental reform. 
   The difficulty with that is a political difficulty. It is not one of not knowing what to do; it is having the political nerve and wherewithal to sit down and get the job done. 
   This commission addressed it. This commission did it, Democrats and Republicans together. But the President pulled the rug out from under that effort. That was a real chance to do some Medicare reform. That would be the only thing that was going to save Medicare. It is fundamental reform. The President pulled the rug out from that effort. 
   He says now, since we have this Medicare problem and essentially since they have pulled the rug out from the reform effort that would do something to solve the problem, that we have to look to general revenues. 
   We can't have a tax cut now so we have to take this surplus and dedicate a huge chunk of it for so-called fixing Medicare. 
   The fact of the matter is that will not fix Medicare. It will not even help Medicare. It will be counterproductive. There will be some transition costs as we move from a failing system--it still does a lot of good, but it is a failing system--to one of real reform. There will be some transition costs. The Republican proposal has over $500 billion of revenues in our proposal that can be used for Medicare or any other reason. 
   Pouring more money in, setting it aside, and calling it a lockbox--and by the way, nobody goes to jail if they get inside the lockbox--I don't think fools anybody. We are making a commitment to set the money aside and not mess with it. I take that commitment seriously. There is nothing keeping Congress from coming in the next day and doing something about it. 
   The fact of the matter is we are not helping the system by saying we are going to set aside some money for Medicare without addressing fundamental reform. A lot of people want prescription drugs as an additional entitlement. At a time when we have a real fiscal problem with the system itself, laying another entitlement on will provide additional challenges we will have to meet. However, there is even a way to do that if it is accompanied with fundamental reform. 
   Instead of doing that, what we have in a proposal similar to the President's proposal, just another variation, is saying another reason we cannot have a tax cut is because we need to set aside the general revenues, the surplus, to save Medicare. It will not save Medicare. That approach will actually wind up hurting Medicare. 
   I was looking at testimony of the Comptroller General on this issue. He was talking about the President's proposal. It has to do with the idea of setting aside general fund revenues, general surpluses, and claims we will use that to solve the Medicare problem. 
   It is fallacious; it is phony. The Comptroller General says even if all future surpluses were saved, we would be saddled with the budget over the longer term and at current tax rates could fund little else but entitlement funds for the elderly population. Reforms reducing the future funds of Medicare and Social Security and Medicaid are vital to restoring fiscal flexibility for future generations of taxpayers. 
   The Comptroller General says if we took all the money and poured it into the programs, we are really not doing very much other than perhaps buying a little bit of additional time to allow us to pour more money into a leaky bucket, when the hole in the bucket at the bottom is getting bigger and bigger, and we are pouring more general revenues, under the assumption, I suppose, that we can do that forever without ever having to make real reform. 
   He says:  
   I feel that the greatest risk lies in extending the HI [the hospital] trust fund solvency, while doing nothing to improve the program's long-term sustainable. Or worse, in adopting changes that may aggravate the long-term financial outlook for the program and the budgets.  
   The Comptroller is saying we are aggravating the problem. You are actually doing harm if you think by putting a little more money on top of this program you can forestall real reform and you can fool the American people 
   into thinking they don't have to make some tough choices and have real reform such as the Medicare Commission came up with. It is making you stand  off from the problem and not address the problem. 
   We are facing a demographic time bomb. In the year 2030 we will have twice as many people over the age of 65. We will have about half as many worker-per-retiree ratio. It will be twice as bad by the year 2030. We know we have to do something. 
   I am afraid I must conclude that although saving Medicare and Social Security has worked very well for some people who have used it as a way of having to face up to the fundamental problems those two programs present, the real answer to the question that is presented tonight with regard to the Medicare lockbox amendment is that, once again, it is being used as yet another excuse, along with ``it will ruin the economy, it will pollute the atmosphere, it will destroy the military.'' It is being used simply as another excuse as to why we cannot have a tax cut. 
   For folks who believe the money ought to come to Washington, there is never a good time for a tax cut. There is never a good time for it. It is about power. It is fundamentally about who makes decisions in our society. Anyone believing Washington should have control of this, thinks even in a surplus situation that 25 percent of it can't be returned to the American people. 
   I say if not now, when in the world could we ever do it? Certainly, we are not doing Medicare any good. We are not doing Medicare any good by standing here and trying to convince the American people that by setting aside a few more general revenue dollars for this system, when we have failed to reach fundamental reform, that we can do that and we will be doing something good for Medicare or the country. 
   If we can't have a tax cut with a $3 trillion surplus, I don't know when we will ever have one. The President, in three different years, has recommended tax increases in a deficit situation. Now we have a surplus situation. One would think the answer to that would be a tax cut. Now he comes back and suggests another tax increase. It doesn't make sense. 
   I suggest the Medicare lockbox proposal be defeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-3-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Chair, and I thank Senator ROTH. 
   It must seem strange to those watching this debate that people on both sides who have the same interest come to such different conclusions about how to get where we both say we are trying to go. 
   There is no controversy with regard to the need to do something about Medicare and Social Security. We all know that. There is no controversy about the need to do something not just for ourselves but the next generation and the next generation after that. I think that is why many of us came to the Congress and to the Senate. We wanted to give back a little bit. We wanted to look forward. We wanted to do some of those tough things that maybe we thought anybody couldn't do and we could maybe come in for a little while and do that. 
   Yet here we are, with such diametrically different views as to what will accomplish that. That is what makes good debates, and we have heard a fine presentation with regard to this amendment. But I think it is totally shortsighted and misguided. 
   In the first place, let's not forget what we are about. We are about the question of whether or not we should have a tax cut with a projected $3 trillion surplus. Some people are suspicious of these projections. I am suspicious of most projections. We know it will not be exactly right. We just don't know which direction or how much. But this Congress gets 
   together quite often and passes tax cuts. If a little farther down the road we have been proven to be incorrect with regard to our projection, it won't take us very long to come in here and raise additional revenues if they are needed. It happens all the time, in my opinion, whether they are needed or not. 
   On the other hand, if we spend an additional trillion dollars, as the President suggests, that is gone. If we add on additional entitlements without the ability to pay for it when our entitlements are eating us alive in terms of squeezing out spending for everything else, we will never reverse that process. 
   I fail to see the danger, the treacherous nature of a tax cut, because we can raise taxes anytime we want to. But right now on the table we have a $3 trillion projected surplus. It is really very simple. What do we do with that? 
   We say that actually less than 25 percent of it, a little over 23 cents on the dollar, should go back to the taxpayers. The rest of it goes to debt reduction, Social Security, whatever we choose to spend with regard to Medicare or any other items of preference on which we believe we need to spend money. And we can't tell that year to year. 
   Some people say we are cutting money from education and the environment and all that. It is not true. It is absolutely not true. We got together as a Congress with the President a couple of years ago and agreed to abide by some caps. That was the deal. We are trying to stay with that deal. After that deal runs out in 2002, we, as a Congress, can spend the money however we want to. 
   My personal opinion is, we need to put some more money into some things and we need to take some money out of things on which we are spending money. That is what Congress is all about. So this business that we are going to be cutting this program and cutting that program would lead someone watching us to believe that in our proposal we are slashing this and slashing that. That is what the President is going around and saying, and he is misleading people when he is doing that. 
   When we increase, we have certain constraints. There is no question about that. I make no apologies for it. I think it is a good thing. It is what we agreed to do. Even past that, we should have certain constraints. But within that framework, we have the ability to spend more money on some things and less money on others. That is as far as discretionary spending is concerned. 
   Now, with regard to Medicare and Social Security, the proposal before us basically takes our natural sentiment to be very concerned about Medicare and Social Security, because they are in trouble, and says let's hold everything off until we solve that problem. That sounds like a good idea, if this proposal that is before us right now would solve that problem. It would not. It would exacerbate the very problem we say we are trying to solve. 
   This amendment would say we can't have any tax cuts until we pass legislation that will make Medicare solvent to the year 2027 and make Social Security solvent to the year 2075. What is magic about those dates? What about the year after 2027? We have been talking about what is going to happen in the year 2030. We are going to have twice as many people over the age of 65 at 2030. Why would we want to make it solvent to the year 2027 when we are going to be right in the middle of crunch time? 
   There is no magic to these dates. Where these dates come from is the President of the United States. These are President Clinton's dates. These are the dates to which he says what he is doing will extend Medicare and Social Security. And they won't. 
   I think that most economists, most objective observers, the Comptroller General, the CBO, and everyone else who has taken a look at it basically acknowledged that. But it is suggested that we wait before we have any tax cuts until we agree on legislation that will solve these problems by those dates. Can you imagine that process? Can you imagine our agreeing on what legislation in effect accomplishes that?  
   I can tell my colleagues--and I think most observers I have read who have a job in looking at these things would conclude--that the President's proposal does not do that. What the President basically proposes--and he is able to say this with a straight face because it is so complicated; it is difficult to understand--is saying, okay, we have trouble with Medicare and Social Security. For the most part we have dedicated sources, FICA taxes, to take care of most of all that. But we have trouble with that now. So instead of disciplining ourselves, let's go to the general revenue, because we have some extra now, and instead of reforming Medicare and Social Security and doing those things that the Medicare Commission tried to do, instead of doing those things that some bipartisan Senators--the Senator from Virginia is on one bill that I am on--instead of doing those fundamental things to really solve Medicare and Social Security, let's just transfer some general revenues over into those items to serve as a temporary fix--in Medicare's case, until 2027. 
   I don't know what the idea is that we are supposed to do. I guess the idea is none of us will be around here to have to answer for it by 2028. But let's look at it individually. Since this amendment is predicated upon the President's proposal, I can only assume that it takes the position that the President's plan works and the President's plan will actually get us solvency by these dates. 
   But with regard to Social Security, I think both the majority leader and the Speaker of the House have reserved bill No. 1 on both sides for the President's Social Security bill, where he can submit his legislation that he says will effectuate his plan in order to save Social Security. It hasn't come yet because I think most people realize it is not a serious plan. It is a transfer of trillions of dollars of IOUs in the Social Security trust fund, the creation of a new debt that will constitute a burden on future taxpayers. 
   You talk about looking out for the future. This is not looking out for the future; this is not looking out for our children and our grandchildren, by transferring trillions of dollars in IOUs that will have to be redeemed some day. Then the President, of course, doesn't make these transfers until starting 2011 because that is outside the purview that we are looking at, and CBO and all these other commentators. So nobody is really able to evaluate it very effectively. And then it takes the money he says will come from all of this and he has the Government invest it. He has the U.S. Government invest it. 
   Chairman Greenspan says that is a terrible idea. When you get right down to it, after all is said and done, there are only three ways to solve this problem, in terms of Social Security: You have to increase taxes, you have to cut benefits, or you have to come up with a way that will produce more off the investments than are being made. 
   Now we have bipartisan legislation over here--the Senator from Virginia and I--on a bill that we think will do that. That is the only kind of thing that will do that. Transferring more general revenue funds--as I put it earlier, putting more water into a leaky bucket, when the hole in the bottom of the bucket is getting bigger every day--will only carry us so far, they think until 2027 on Medicare and 2075 on Social Security. It might. It might get us that far if we put enough general revenue funds in while we have a surplus. I assume it very well might get us to 2027. 
   So what. Don't we have an obligation past that? Don't we have an obligation to do something more fundamental? It doesn't take a genius to say you have some extra money, let's just pour it on top of a broken system, or, as one of our Members likes to say, putting more gasoline into an old run down, beat up, decrepit automobile doesn't change the nature of that automobile. 
   So the President's plan with regard to so-called saving Social Security is not a serious proposal. The President's own budget--the document that he submits, the ``Analytical Perspectives of the Budget of the United States Government, Fiscal Year 2000''--says that:  
   Under the proposals in the President's budget, the trust funds balances are estimated to increase by approximately 70 percent by the year 2004, raising to $2.8 trillion.  
   That is the part of the plan the President says will take Social Security out and keep it solvent until the year 2075. 
   But the President's own folks continue:  
   These balances are available to finance future benefit payments and other trust fund expenditures--but only in a bookkeeping sense. These funds are not set up to be pension funds, as are the funds of private pension plans. They do not consist of real economic assets that can be drawn down in the future to fund benefits. Instead, they are claims on the Treasury that, when redeemed, will have to be financed by raising taxes, borrowing from the public, or reducing benefits or other expenditures. The existence of large trust fund balances, therefore, does not, by itself, have any impact on the Government's ability to pay benefits.  
   It is a shell game. His own folks, in this thick document, basically tell it like it is. When you hear him talk about it, of course, it is a little bit different. It makes you believe it is real money and you are setting something aside, and so forth. It is not. The only way we can reform this problem, and the only way we are going to get our arms around it, is to increase FICA taxes. We don't want to do that. The working man is overburdened as it is today. Cut benefits. We don't want to do that, or come up with a system that is going to produce more revenue than the investment that our Social Security system has today, which is virtually nil. We can put a little part of it in the stock market, and even if the market crashed, unless we had unprecedented decades of low market, it would produce much more than what the Social Security system is producing today. Those are the only things we can do. I do not believe these other things are serious in the effect they would have. 
   Of course, again--and I mentioned it several times today--we are dependent upon the President's support, I guess, to pass a bill that will do these things when, on the other hand, he is doing everything he can to prevent reform. We had a bipartisan Medicare commission. We have these bipartisan bills. As far as the commission is concerned, the President did everything he could to defeat the recommendations there. Democrats and Republicans--and Senator BREAUX chaired that commission, a Democrat--worked together and came up with solutions. The President would not support it. He would rather have a temporary political issue than a long-term solution to this problem. That is very disappointing. Many of us who were critical of the President some time ago thought that in his last couple of years in office he might want to step forward and do this and leave that kind of legacy. He could have done that. It is a wasted opportunity, and I regret that. 
   So that is the Social Security plan, one that doesn't consist of real economic assets and will have to be financed by raising taxes borrowed from the public or reducing benefits. 
   What about Medicare? As I understand it, the President's proposal there basically transfers $327 billion from the general revenue. CBO takes a look at it and says it will make Medicare more solvent for several more years. It doesn't have a number on it. But this is what the professionals who look at this say about that. This is what CBO says about the President's Medicare financing. Again, is this the solution to the Medicare problems we have? Is this the reason why we can't have tax cuts because this is what we need to do? I don't think so. Listen:  
   The President is proposing to augment Medicare's financing by making transfers from the general fund of the U.S. Treasury to the program's trust funds.  
   That sounds familiar--Social Security and Medicare.  
   Consistent with the policy outlined in the President's budget for fiscal year 2000, CBO estimates that $288 billion would be transferred from the general fund to the Hospital Insurance trust funds over the next decade. That transfer would delay by several years the projected date on which the HI [Hospital Insurance] trust fund will become insolvent by committing future general revenues to the program. It would do nothing to address the underlying rapid growth in spending for Medicare that will eventually outrun the revenues dedicated to the program.  
   Just on borrowed time, headed toward a cliff. 
   This plan does nothing to fundamentally alter that. 
   The Comptroller General, talking about the President's proposal--again, this amendment is based upon the numbers, as I understand it--if I am  wrong about that, I can be corrected. But they are the same numbers that the President has been using throughout his plan. The Comptroller General says:  
   I feel that the greatest risk lies in extending the HI trust fund solvency while doing nothing to improve the program's long-term sustainability, or worse, in opting for changes that may aggravate the long-term financial outlook for the program.  
   What he is talking about is something that might not only not do any good in terms of a fundamental sense but will aggravate the problem. If we deceive ourselves into believing that by using general revenue moneys we are really doing something to solve the Social Security/Medicare problem, it will put off real reform and wind up hurting Social Security and Medicare. It encourages us to wait. We can't afford to wait for fundamental reform. 
   We have in excess of $500 billion in our proposal that can be spent for transition costs, Medicare, any other discretionary spending proposals that we as a Congress decide to spend it on. That is general revenue money, too. There is no question about that. 
   But, fundamentally, both sides have to come together on an agreement that this is not the sort of thing that is going to solve that problem. It has nothing to do with tax cuts. If we don't fundamentally solve the Social Security problem, a tax cut is going to be irrelevant. If we don't fund it, they are going to be irrelevant to that. It has nothing to do with that basic problem. By keeping the economy strong, cutting taxes for working people, letting them keep a little bit more of their own money, it doesn't directly benefit these programs but it helps the people whom these programs ultimately are designed to benefit. 
   In conclusion, basically we have no legislation before us and no proposal that would effectuate this amendment in terms of what kind of legislation are we talking about to reach these magic dates. 
   Second, the President's position, which I think these dates are based upon, is a flawed one for the reason that we have set out. 
   Lastly, not only is this not reform, but it goes against reform. So, indeed, we come full circle. 
   I agree with my colleagues that my heart is in the same place as theirs. I want to figure out a way for us to come together and really do something about Medicare and Social Security. I want to find a way to do something about not just ourselves up to 2027, or however long some of us might still be around here--not myself, but the next generation and the generation after that. 
   Let's look seriously and see whether or not this is the sort of thing that is going to get us there, or whether buckling down and doing the hard work, the hard, politically risky work--because if you use the words, you are running some kind of political risk--and not be diverted with false reasons as to why we shouldn't have a tax cut. 
   We have had more reasons in one day than you can shake a stick at as to why the world would come to an end if we had a tax cut. There is no good time for a tax cut for some people because a tax cut has more to do with than just dollars and cents; it has to do with the exercise of who is going to make decisions in this society. Money is power. Where the money lies is where the power lies. Is it going to be in the pockets of the American people, or is it going to be in our pockets? 
   Some say we have been a little bit too reticent ourselves because we say of the surplus dollar that only 25 percent or less should go into the American people's pockets. But to call that dangerous, to call that gluttonous, to call that selfish greatly exceeds the mark. 
   I urge the defeat of the amendment. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-4-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. If the chairman will cede me a couple other minutes, just a couple of points. 
   I have enjoyed this discussion very much. It is a serious discussion about a serious problem. My only real disappointment is to learn that the Senator from Florida has twice as many grandchildren as I have. But all we ask is for an opportunity to catch up. 
   But I think there are a lot of things we do agree on. We agree that there is a crisis. We agree that we need fundamental reform in Medicare and Social Security. We agree that the longer we delay in doing that, the worse the problem is going to be. 
   So the question is, Are we doing the right thing by temporarily papering over the problem to extend it a few years, knowing that is not going to fundamentally solve the problem, giving us an excuse not to really address the fundamental problem or should we push and pressure ourselves to go ahead and address the fundamental problem? That is really the issue here today. I think that is where we have a disagreement. 
   When I said that there is no relationship between this Medicare/Social Security problem on the one hand and tax cuts on the other, I did not mean to say if you keep more of the tax money and pour more of it into Medicare and Social Security, you could not delay it a little longer. That is certainly true, but fundamentally there is no relationship. 
   The reason I said that was because of what the Comptroller of the United States said. In his testimony in July before the 
   Finance Committee, he said:  
   Even if all future surpluses were saved--  
   Taking every penny of the surplus, not one dime of tax cuts--  
   we would nonetheless be saddled with a budget over the longer term that the current tax rates could fund little else but entitlement programs for the elderly population. Reforms reducing the future growth of Medicare, as well as Social Security and Medicaid, are vital under any fiscal and economic scenario to restoring fiscal flexibility for future generations of taxpayers.  
   That is the reason I say that even if we put all this aside --we are throwing a lot of numbers around here--take all of it, pour it into Medicare and Social  Security, so we can tell people we saved it for a few more years, it really would not address the fundamental problems. 
   Is it incumbent on us to have a temporary solution or to force ourselves to have a longer-term solution? I think it is the latter. That is kind of what it boils down to. 
   My friends talk about the size of this tax cut. The economy is projected to be $9 trillion next year. The net tax cuts next year alone are $4 billion, so the tax cuts are less than one-twentieth of 1 percent of the economy next year--less than one-twentieth of 1 percent. 
   I am told that the tax cuts over the 10-year period would be 3.4 percent of total Federal revenues, and it would be under 1 percent of the gross domestic product. So that is not a huge tax cut if you look at it under those terms, in terms of the share of the economy, especially in light of the fact that taxes, especially Federal taxes--especially Federal income taxes--are mushrooming as a share of our total economy. It is eating up more and more and more as a share of our total economy. 
   We may have good times now, but that is not guaranteed. We are in a world standing as an island, as it were, at the present time while those all around us have problems. Our friends in Asia, our friends in Japan, some of our friends in Europe, some in South America, all have economic problems. So we have to be mindful of that as we go along. 
   Quite frankly, there are some who say, when we have a deficit, certainly we can't afford to cut taxes; we have a deficit. And listening to the debate today, apparently some of our same friends, when we have a surplus, say we can't cut taxes because we really don't know whether or not we will have the surplus. So that does not leave us much room for a tax cut. 
   I have enjoyed the debate. I yield the floor and thank the chairman and my good friends from Florida and Virginia for such an interesting discussion. 
   Mr. ROBB addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Chair.  
   I join in the expressions of my colleagues in expressing my profound sadness and regret at the fate that has befallen our colleague and members of his and the Bessette family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I will also make some comments about the reorganization of the Department of Energy with regard to its nuclear activities. 
   I heard my colleagues speaking earlier on this subject. I think it is one of those great times in the Senate where Members from both sides of the aisle can come together and try to get something done for the benefit of the country and for the benefit of our safety in a troubled world. It is a historic opportunity. 
   Perhaps to lend a little bit of a different perspective or additional perspective, I should say, with regard to some of the work we do in the Governmental Affairs Committee, it has to do generally with the operation of Government. We continually face instances where the Government is not performing the way it should. The taxpayers are not getting their money's worth. We continually see instances of waste, fraud, and abuse. We have what is known as the high risk list; that is, those Departments and agencies which are most prone to waste, fraud, and abuse. We see the same agencies year in and year out. 
   We have reports year in and year out about these kinds of problems. It is affecting the way our people look at their own Government, which I think is probably the most important underlying problem that we have in this country. This lack of faith and trust in Government has become a recurring theme in recent nonpartisan and bipartisan surveys of public opinion toward Government. This trend is definitely in the wrong direction. 
   A poll released by the Counsel for Excellence in Government last week found that just 29 percent of Americans say that they trust the Government in Washington to do what's right most of the time. This is down even from last year's poll, which found only a 38 percent level of trust. The National Academy of Public Administration recently released a national election study poll this June that pegged the percentage of Americans who trust Government at a meager 32 percent. According to the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, it is poor Government performance that is the leading indicator, the leading factor, in Americans' distrust of the Federal Government. An overwhelming majority of the public--74 percent--say that the Government does only a fair or poor job in managing its programs and providing services. The National Academy of Public Administration reports that survey respondents complain about Government failures, stating that Government becomes part of the problem, is too big, serving others, doing nothing, and wasting money. So we have seen that over a period of years. 
   Time and time and again, we have had reports bringing this to our attention. All too often, we wind up talking about it and doing very little about it. But now we find that we are faced with a different kind of lack of performance as far as our Government is concerned. Maybe we can afford certain breakdowns. Maybe we can afford certain fraud, inefficiencies, and waste, but we are facing a different kind now, and that has to do with our national security. Time and time again, we see instances where the right hand within a department does not know what the left hand is doing. 
   We recently received the inspector general's report from the Department of Justice which demonstrated that we on the Governmental Affairs Committee did not receive evidence and did not receive materials showing people with strong ties to the Chinese government at the same time they were making political contributions in this country. Six inspectors general gave us a report recently regarding how our export control system was working. We found out that it is not working very well at all. We don't know very much, sometimes, about who is doing the exporting. We don't know much about who the end users are and what they are doing with these dual-use technologies we are sending them, some of which can be used for military purposes. The law requires that we train our licensing officers. But we are not following that law. We have no training programs with regard to our licensing officers. We are supposed to be checking up on our foreign visitors there and making sure that when they visit the labs, they are not coming away with information that they should not be having. We are not doing a good job there. 
   The law requires that we keep up with the cumulative effect of the exports we are sending to these other countries, but we are not doing that either. We found out recently that, with regard to trying to get materials regarding someone who is a suspect, actual espionage activities broke down 
   interdepartmentally between the Department of Energy and the Department of Justice because of a lack of communication. We were trying to get a search warrant there; it never came about. If we had the correct information and had been really talking to each other and had a system whereby we could exchange information after asking the right questions, we would not even have needed that search warrant. These are all instances where the Government is not performing in the way the Government should be performing. And now we see a systematic breakdown with regard to the security at our national laboratories. 
   This is bad enough in and of itself at any time. But I think it is especially disturbing now that we understand more and more that we are living in a different world than we have been living in in times past. I think that after the end of the Cold War, when we didn't have the big Soviet Union threat anymore, we let our guard down in this country. We thought that we could place less emphasis on preparedness, readiness, national security, and things of that nature. The Chinese were in no position to pose a direct threat to us, and we felt the Soviet Union certainly was not. Yet as we look around the world, we see that new threats are developing. We got the Rumsfeld report, and we understand now that rogue nations around this world are rapidly developing biological, nuclear, and chemical capabilities that pose a threat to this country. Then we have the Cox report, which tells us what we have lost with regard to our own national laboratories, in terms of nuclear technology and perhaps even nuclear materials. The President's own Federal foreign intelligence advisory committee, led by Senator Rudman, now points out the difficulties that we are having in that regard. 
   It is a different world. So we must ask ourselves: If not now, when? If we can't, at long last, after all these reports--and Senator Rudman pointed out that there had been over a hundred reports over the years pointing out the problems that we were having at our national labs. Yet very little was done. So it takes a tremendous amount. We have seen in these nonmilitary matters, non-national security matters, how difficult it is. The Government has gotten too big and complex, with layer upon layer of assistants and deputy assistants in these departments, and we are having less and less accountability and more and more complexity, more and more of the right hand not knowing what the left hand is doing. 
   So now, at long last, when we have someone, such as the President's own commission, report to us that within the Department of Energy there is no accountability, that it is dysfunctional, that it is saturated with cynicism and disregard for authority, that it is incapable of reforming itself, that it will do whatever is necessary, apparently, to delay reform, certainly this must get our attention. 
   I believe from listening to my colleagues and the way this thing is developing, perhaps maybe at long last our attention has been gotten. And what is being proposed now in terms of reorganization is a very straightforward approach. It is not nearly as radical as some people would like to go. Many people would like to take matters of nuclear safety, our laboratories and nuclear materials totally outside the Department of Energy and set up a totally different entity to deal with them. This bill doesn't do that. It keeps it within the Department of Energy. The Secretary of Energy continues to set the policy for the department. And the 
   newly created Under  Secretary for Nuclear Stewardship reports to the Secretary and is under the supervision of the Secretary. So you still have direct lines of reporting. You have more accountability. You have a simplified reporting system. You would not have any more of this Rube Goldberg-type of organization chart that we see within the Department of Energy, under which you could not tell who is responsible for what. 
   At long last, as difficult as it is to reform Government, as difficult as it is to stop waste, fraud, and abuse, when we are told about it every year, told about it all the time, now that we know we have this significant problem with regard to the most significant matter that can plague a country, dealing with national security, surely we can take the necessary steps in order to turn this thing around. 
   I know there will be amendments proposed. I have never seen a piece of legislation that perhaps could not stand a bit of improvement. I do not really know the thrust of the amendments that will be proposed. But I urge my colleagues that, as we go along in considering these amendments, ask the question: Does this enhance or does this defuse accountability? 
   We need accountability more and more throughout Government. We can very seldom place responsibility anywhere anymore for mishaps in Government. But here we must have it. We certainly must have it with regard to the Department of Energy and our nuclear stewardship. I am delighted with the way this has progressed. The changes are not a draconian, and it is a revolutionary approach. It is an approach that will enhance accountability. It gives us an opportunity not only to do something with regard to national security in this country but perhaps to take some first steps toward restoring the American public's faith in their own Government. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. COVERDELL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise to express serious concerns which I have about the amendment offered by the Senator from Connecticut regarding investigation procedures at the Office of Inspector General for the Department of State. These concerns are not mine alone, but have been brought to the attention of the Governmental Affairs Committee by a number of inspectors general. The amendment requires the Inspector General for the Department of State to provide each individual mentioned in a report an opportunity to refute any allegation or assertion made regarding that person's activities. While I understand the Senator from Connecticut's concerns, I fear that the amendment as written could have serious repercussions for law enforcement. For example, providing allegations and assertions to each individual mentioned in a criminal investigation prior to a referral, no matter how tangentially involved, could compromise a subsequent investigation by the Department of Justice. In addition, it could reveal sources of information and subject those sources to reprisals and chill future cooperation from potential witnesses. Second, the amendment could create rights that witnesses and targets of other investigations do not have. It is unclear what litigation or grievances could result from a failure to follow the amendment. Third, there are a number of unsettled issues in the amendment such as what constitutes ``exculpatory material'' and whether a subject, witness, or an individual with only marginal relevance to the investigation is entitled to review the actual report. Fourth, I understand the State Department Inspector General is concerned that the reporting requirement could be used to second-guess discretion that she uses in her investigations. Finally, by using the ambiguous term ``assertions,'' the amendment puts an unnecessary burden on the Inspector General after the report is complete to seek out each person named and allow them to comment on even the most innocuous assertions relating to them. This will unduly delay the investigative process and put a strain on the office's resources. 
   In addition to these concerns about the amendment itself, I am also concerned that it is being offered without any hearings at all or consideration by the Governmental Affairs Committee. As the Chairman is aware, the Governmental Affairs Committee has jurisdiction over the Inspector General Act. If there are in fact legitimate concerns that the amendment is intended to address, then perhaps it should apply to all inspectors general rather than singling out this particular one. 
   Despite these reservations, I understand the Foreign Relations Committee has worked hard to craft this amendment. Therefore, I will not object to its consideration at this time if the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee will agree to work with me in conference to address the concerns that I have raised. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Chairman for his work on this bill and I look forward to working with him in conference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. 
   Mr. President, I rise to introduce the ``Truth in Regulating Act.'' This legislation would establish a 3-year pilot project to support Congressional oversight to ensure that important regulatory decisions are efficient, effective, and fair. 
   The foundation of the ``Truth in Regulating Act'' is the right of Congress and the people we serve to know about important regulatory decisions. Through the General Accounting Office, which serves as Congress' eyes and ears, this legislation will help us get access to the important information that Federal agencies use to make regulatory decisions before the horse gets out of the barn. So, in a real sense, this legislation not only gives people the right to know; it gives them the right to see--to see how the government works, or doesn't. And by providing us with information that agencies use to make regulations, it will enable Congress to ensure that agency regulations are consistent with Congress' intent and the authority that Congress has delegated to the agencies by statute. This will make the regulatory process more transparent, more accountable, and more democratic. It will help improve the quality and fairness of important regulations. This will contribute to the success of programs the public values and improve public confidence in the Federal Government, which is a real concern today. 
   Under the 3-year pilot project established by this legislation, a Committee  of either House of Congress may request the Comptroller General to review an economically significant rule as it is being developed. The Comptroller General shall submit a report no later than 180 calendar days after a committee request is received. This should allow Congress ample time to decide whether it wants to disapprove the rule under the Congressional Review Act. The Comptroller General's independent analysis of the rule shall include: an analysis of the potential benefits of the rule, the potential costs of the rule, any alternative approaches that could achieve the goal in a more cost-effective manner or that could produce greater net benefits, the extent to which the rule would affect State or local governments, and a summary of how the results of the analysis of the Comptroller General differ, if at all, from the results of agency analyses. The Comptroller General will have the discretion to develop the procedures for determining the priority of requests. 
   Mr. President, it is my hope that the ``Truth in Regulating Act'' will encourage Federal agencies to make better use of modern decisionmaking tools, such as risk assessment and benefit-cost analysis. Currently, these important tools often are viewed simply as options--options that aren't used as much or as well as they should be. The Governmental Affairs Committee has reviewed and developed a voluminous record showing that our regulatory process is not working as well as intended and is missing important opportunities to achieve greater benefits at less cost. On April 22, I chaired a hearing in which we heard testimony on the need for this proposal. The General Accounting Office has done important studies for Governmental Affairs and other committees showing that agency practices--in cost-benefit analysis, risk assessment, and in meeting transparency and disclosure requirements of laws and executive orders--need significant improvement. Many other authorities support these findings. 
   All of us benefit when government performs well and meets the needs of the people it serves. I want to thank BLANCHE LINCOLN, GEORGE VOINOVICH, BOB KERREY, and JOHN BREAUX for joining me as original cosponsors of this bill. All of us on both sides of the aisle should pull together to improve the quality of our government. I urge by colleagues to support this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to S. 96, the Year 2000 liability legislation. The problems caused by faulty computer software on January 1, 2000 may be severe, and some legislation addressing that problem may be warranted. Although I had concerns about S. 96 as it was originally offered, I supported invoking cloture on the bill because I wanted to see the compromise process continue so as to possibly improve the legislation. But even the modified bill would cause the litigation nightmare that it ostensibly seeks to avoid. 
   Were this bill to become law, both State and Federal courts would be required to resolve disputes resulting from Year 2000 failures not under familiar legal standards developed over 200 years, but by applying new legal terms and definitions, or terms never before applied to this context. As a result, vast amounts of litigation will be required to establish the meaning of those terms, and various State and Federal courts are certain to adopt different views of the same language. 
   For instance, the bill applies to injuries that result ``directly or indirectly from an actual or potential Y2K failure.'' Because it would be in the interest of defendants to apply the liability shields contained in this bill as widely as possible, many types of cases certainly will be characterized as ``result[ing] directly or indirectly from an actual or potential Y2K failure.'' Pre-trial motions, trial court rulings, appellate court decisions, and ultimately, appellate court rulings to resolve conflicting appellate court rulings will be necessary before the scope of cases actually covered by the bill is finally determined. Courts will consume years determining the meaning of other operative terms, such as ``material defect,'' or deciding precisely what factors are relevant in assessing ``the nature of the conduct.'' 
   Although punitive damages have been a staple of the common law, this bill would impose a punitive damages regime never before adopted in any jurisdiction. While some States have adopted caps on punitive damages for noneconomic damages in personal injury cases, this bill represents the first time that a law would cap punitive damages with respect to property damage. No one has offered a compelling reason for this course. And no one can predict what the consequence will be of a blanket Federal rule on this subject in the absence of any State experiences with this approach. 
   The bill's effects on the procedures for resolving cases are equally serious. It would permit a defendant to respond to a complaint by indicating a willingness to engage in alternative dispute resolution. But the bill makes no provision for the actual availability of alternative dispute resolution in federal courts that lack them, nor does it ensure the use of State ADR procedures. And federal law would control the pleading requirements even of State law causes of action brought in state courts. 
   Additionally, I am concerned about the effect this bill would have on small businesses. Unless a small business is in the computer business, its exclusive role in Year 2000 litigation will be as a plaintiff, not a defendant. But this bill provides benefits only to defendants, benefits that would be of no use to most small businesses. At the same time, it denies otherwise available legal rights to small business plaintiffs. Apart from restricting their right to recover punitive damages, small businesses who currently could bring an action against a landlord who fails to provide working elevators so that customers and employees can reach their offices would not be able under this bill to sue the landlord if he for failed to take action now to make sure that those elevators will work on January 1, 2000. The landlord's relief from liability will both increase the chances that a small business' elevator will not work and decrease the recovery that the small business can obtain if in fact the elevator does not work. 
   Similarly, a small business that bought a computer that did not work now has the right to obtain consequential damages from that failure. If the business had to shut down because of the failure, the business owner could recover the lost profits for the period that the defective computer caused the shutdown. But under this legislation, all that the business owner who files a tort and contract lawsuit could obtain is recovery for damage to the computer itself. No compensation would be permitted for real injuries that the owner faces. There is no reason to impose this hardship on a small business that bought a product that it had every reason to believe would work. There is no reason to increase the protection of the company that did not take the appropriate steps to ensure Y2K compliance as against the workers who will be laid off because the small business cannot continue to operate. 
   Even though the bill does preempt state law in a number of areas, federal action might be appropriate to address a unique event such as the Year 2000 problem. There could in fact be a large volume of litigation that could overwhelm courts. But this bill is not an effective means of addressing that possible calamity. Reducing in advance the exposure of people who made non-Y2K compliant products will reduce neither the scope of the computer malfunctions nor the number of lawsuits. Restrictions only on the ability of plaintiffs, such as individuals and small businesses, to recover damages, no matter how meritorious their cases, is not warranted. S. 96 will create many new issues to litigate, increase the likelihood that the Year 2000 problem will be great rather than small, and harm the ability of innocent persons to recover that which their states legally entitle them to retain. These are not desirable objectives, and for these reasons I oppose this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I rise to introduce the ``Federalism Accountability Act,'' a bill to promote and preserve principles of federalism. Federalism raises two fundamental questions that policy makers should answer: What should government be doing? And what level of government should do it? Everything else flows from them. That's why federalism is at the heart of our Democracy. 
   The Founders created a dual system of governance for America, dividing power between the Federal Government and the States. The Tenth Amendment makes clear that States retain all governmental power not granted to the Federal Government by the Constitution. The Founders intended that the State and Federal governments would check each other's encroachment on individual rights. As Alexander Hamilton stated in the Federalist Papers, No. 28:  
   Power being almost always the rival of power, the general government will at times stand ready to check the usurpations of the state governments, and these will have the same disposition towards the general government. The people, by throwing themselves into either scale, will infallibly make it preponderate. If their rights are invaded by either, they can make use of the other as the instrument of redress.  
   The structure of our constitutional system assumes that the states will maintain a sovereign status independent of the national government. At the same time, the Supremacy Clause states that Federal laws made pursuant to the Constitution shall be the supreme law of the land. The ``Federalism Accountability Act'' is intended to require careful thought and accountability when we reconcile the competing principles embodied in the Tenth Amendment and the Supremacy Clause. Congress and the Executive Branch should not lightly exercise the powers conferred by the Supremacy Clause without also shouldering responsibility. As the Supreme Court has been signaling in recent decisions, where the authority exists, the democratic branches of the Federal Government should make the primary decisions whether or not to limit state power, and they ought to exercise this power unambiguously. 
   We need to face the fact that Congress and the Executive Branch too often have acted as if they have a general police power to engage in any issue, no matter how local. Both Congress and the Executive Branch have neglected to consider prudential and constitutional limits on their powers. We should not forget that even where the Federal Government has the constitutional authority to act, state governments may be better suited to address certain matters. Congress has a habit of preempting State and local law on a large scale, with little thought to the consequences. Congress and the White House are ever eager to pass federal criminal laws to appear responsive to highly publicized events. We are now finding that this often is not only unnecessary and unwise, but it also has harmful implications for crime control. 
   Too often, federalism principles have been ignored. The General Accounting Office reported to our Committee that there has been gross noncompliance by the agencies with the executive order on federalism that has been law since it was issued by President Reagan in 1987. In a review of over 11,000 Federal rules recently issued during a 3-year period, GAO found that the agencies had prepared only 5 federalism assessments under the federalism order. It is time for legislation to ensure that the agencies take such requirements more seriously. 
   To be sure, we have made some inroads on federalism. The Supreme Court has recently revived federalist doctrines. Congress passed the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act to help discourage the wholesale passage of new legislative unfunded mandates. Congress also gave the States the Safe Drinking Water Act, reduced agency micro-management, and provided block grants in welfare, transportation, drug prevention, and--just recently--education flexibility. Much of the innovation that has improved the country began at the State and local level. 
   But unless we really understand that federalism is the foundation of our governmental system, these bright achievements will fade. As we cross into the 21st century, federalism must constantly illuminate our path. Our governmental structure is based on an optimistic belief in the power of people and their communities. I share that view. It is my hope that the Federalism Accountability Act give a greater voice to State and local governments and the people they serve and reinvigorate the debate on federalism. 
   The ``Federalism Accountability Act'' will promote restraint in the exercise of federal power. It establishes a rule of construction requiring an explicit statement of congressional or agency intent to preempt. Congress would be required to make explicit statements on the extent to which bills or joint resolutions are intended to preempt State or local law, and if so, an explanation of the reasons for such preemption. 
   Agencies would designate a federalism officer to implement the requirements of this legislation and to serve as a liaison to State and local officials. Early in the process of developing rules, Federal agencies would be required to notify, consult with, and provide an opportunity for meaningful participation by public officials of State and local governments. The agency would prepare a federalism assessment for rules that have federalism impacts. Each federalism assessment would include an analysis of: whether, why, and to what degree the Federal rule preempts state law; other significant impacts on State and local governments; measures taken by the agency, including the consideration of regulatory alternatives, to minimize the impact on State and local governments; and the extent of the agency's prior consultation with public officials, the nature of their concerns, and the extent to which those concerns have been met. 
   The legislation also will require the Congressional Budget Office, with the help of the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Research Service, to compile a report on preemptions by Federal rules, court decisions, and legislation. I hope this report will lead to an informed debate on the appropriate use of preemption to reach policy goals. 
   Finally, the legislation amends two existing laws to promote federalism. First, it amends the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 to clarify that performance measures for State-administered grant programs are to be determined in cooperation with public officials. Second, it amends the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995  to clarify that major new requirements imposed on States under entitlement authority are to be scored by CBO as unfunded mandates. It also requires that where Congress has capped the Federal share of an entitlement program, then the Committee report and the accompanying CBO report must analyze whether the legislation includes new flexibility or whether there is existing flexibility to offset additional costs. 
   Mr. President, this legislation was developed with representatives of the ``Big 7'' organizations representing State and local government, including the National Governors' Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the Council of State Governments, the National League of Cities, the National Association of Counties, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the International City/County Management Association. I am pleased that this legislation is supported by Senators LEVIN, VOINOVICH, ROBB, COCHRAN, LINCOLN, ENZI, BREAUX, ROTH, and BAYH. I urge my colleagues to support this much-needed legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself as chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee and Senator LIEBERMAN, the Committee's ranking minority member, and Senators WARNER and LEVIN, the chairman and ranking minority member of the Armed Services Committee. Senator LIEBERMAN and I thank the Armed Services chairman and ranking member for their cooperation and assistance in preparing this amendment which will benefit not only the procurement process within the Department of Defense, but other agencies across the Federal government as well. 
   The amendment which we offer today began as a request from the Administration and others to include additional procurement-related reforms to those enacted over the past several years and those already included in S. 1059. Our amendment includes five provisions, as follows: (1) Streamlined Applicability of Cost Accounting Standards; (2) Task Order and Delivery Order Contracts; (3) Clarification to the Definition of Commercial Items; (4) Two-year Extension of Commercial Items Test Program; and (5) Extension of Interim Reporting Rule on Contracts with Small Business. I ask unanimous consent that a joint statement of sponsors explaining the amendment be placed in the RECORD immediately following my statement. This statement represents the consensus view of the sponsors as to the meaning and intent of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am saddened by the tragic circumstances that have motivated my distinguished colleague from Pennsylvania to offer his amendment. It is understandable that concerned citizens hope to avoid crime committed by people who are released from prison. And I might favor states increasing the length of sentences of violent offenders. But that choice should be that of the states, and not one essentially forced on states by the Federal Government for fear of losing their criminal assistance funds. That view by itself leads me to oppose this amendment, although the particular way in which this amendment will operate causes me particular concern. 
   States are not mere appendages of the federal government to be called upon to do the Federal Government's bidding every time we think we've got a good idea. State sentencing for state crime is a state matter. 
   The amendment provides that in any case in which a person is convicted of murder, rape, or a dangerous sexual offense as defined by state law, and that person previously has been convicted of that offense in another state, the state of the prior conviction will have deducted from the federal criminal justice funds it receives, and transferred to the state where the subsequent offense occurred, the cost of the apprehension, prosecution, and incarceration of the offender, unless the original state has: (1) adopted the federal truth in sentencing guidelines; (2) imposed a sentence on persons for these offenses that is at least 10 percent above the average term of imprisonment for that offense that is imposed in all states; and (3) made the particular offender serve at least 85 percent of his sentence. 
   Mr. President, my opposition to this provision is based primarily on federalism. States should be free to adopt the sentences that they choose. They should also be able to adopt the parole policies of their choice. States that impose short sentences or lenient parole policies will bear most of the cost themselves if released criminals commit future offenses. 
   Under this amendment, states must adopt the federal sentencing guidelines if they wish to be certain to avoid losing federal funds. The states will have their sentencing policies for these offenses not drafted by their state legislators in their state capitals, nor even by Congress. State judges will lose the ability to exercise whatever discretion in sentencing their states permit. Instead, the unelected bureaucrats of the  United States Sentencing Commission will set the sentences for state criminals who commit these offenses. I have no criticism of these individuals pursuing the task that Congress has given them, particularly since their work is subject to congressional review. But they were not and should not be given the power to set state sentences, unanswerable to the states who will be forced to silently acquiesce to their efforts. 
   In addition, a state seeking to retain its federal funding by complying with the three conditions of this amendment would incur much greater expense than any loss of funds it would sustain if it were not to comply with the conditions. States who seek to sentence at more than 110 percent of the average will be required to spend huge sums on new prisons to hold these offenders. In addition to construction costs, there will be additional costs of personnel and other operating expenses. Such long sentences will also mean that the states will incur huge medical expenses for older prisoners, for fear of losing federal funds if they were released and committed new offenses. If a state wanted to incur these costs without this amendment, it could do so, but this bill will for all practical purposes force states to do so without funding any of the resulting costs. In addition, states sentencing for such a long duration may not be sentencing wisely. Some offenders deserve parole. Not all offenders are incorrigible. Some offenders can be helped by religion or counseling to lead law abiding lives, returning to their families, safely living among the community, avoiding the need for states to incur costly prison expenses, and actually becoming productive, taxpaying citizens. This amendment essentially deprives a state of that choice, and may result in the unjustified continuation of imprisonment of certain persons, harming that person, his family, the community, and taxpayers generally. 
   The 110 percent of the national average sentence requirement is troubling for other reasons as well. By definition, half the states will be below average, and even a larger number will not sentence for 110 percent or more of the national average. That will mean that most states will not be able to avoid the risk of losing their federal funds, no matter how hard they try to comply with the amendment's conditions. And since the average is not static, a state that is above 110 percent in one year may not be at that level the following year. As a result, the amendment would result in states continuously increasing their sentences in what will probably be a vain effort to be one of the above average states. And how will the average be calculated? Is a 99 year sentence longer or shorter than a life sentence? Is a death sentence imposed after 5 years longer or shorter than a life sentence without parole? I suppose states will have an incentive under this bill to adopt not only a death penalty, but to sentence the defendant to 1000 years besides. It is not Washington's business whether or not a state has a death penalty for state crimes. That decision should be made by the people of a state and no one else, consistent with constitutional requirements. 
   Apart from opposing this amendment on federalism grounds, I also note the existence of significant drafting problems that will result in what I am sure the sponsors would consider to be unintended consequences. For instance, the amendment defines ``murder'' and ``rape'' by reference to state law. But some states will never be in a situation in which a person convicted of murder has been released from serving a murder sentence or rape sentence in their state. For instance, Vermont has no crime of rape, but only sexual assault. No one can be convicted of rape who was convicted of rape previously in Vermont. Wisconsin has no rape or murder statutes, but simply intentional homicide and sexual assault. One can well imagine that if this amendment passes, states will manipulate the label placed on various conduct so that it can make sure to convict persons for ``murder'' or ``rape'' however defined under another state's law--and in such a way as now not remotely considered to constitute these crimes--while convicting persons in their own state for ``intentional homicide'' or ``sexual assault.'' That kind of manipulation will produce virtual anarchy. While the House companion bill avoids this particular problem because it defines these offenses without regard to state law, I note that the House bill is equally objectionable in its own way, since the crimes that it covers are broader than the Senate bill, extending to crimes that few would consider exceptionally serious, and thus causing greater expense to the states than the Senate bill if loss of funds is to be avoided. Moreover, under the House bill, unlike this amendment, a state is never free from the risk of losing funding, since it will be liable for a released offender's offense for the rest of his life, regardless of the length of his sentence or actual imprisonment before release. 
   We have eliminated parole at the federal level. But there are many fewer federal than state parolees. If a state would rather spend money on education or effective prevention programs than on very long sentences, it should be able to do so without federal interference. Some prisoners may deserve parole. Others may not. And so long as there is parole, as in every other human endeavor, mistakes will occasionally be made, sometimes with serious consequences. The people who make those decisions and the state lawmakers--not federal lawmakers--should continue to set parole policy, and they should continue to be held accountable by the people of their states for those decisions. The track record of Congress in knowing just how crime should be punished should give pause to anyone who thinks states and the American people would necessarily benefit more from a congressionally mandated approach to this issue than from experimentation among the states. 
   Mr. President, I sympathize with those who are the victims of crimes caused by parolees. I understand the sincere motives of my colleagues who support this legislation. But I strongly believe that it is misguided and runs counter to our system of federalism. It will cost states billions of dollars without any guarantee of retaining full federal funding. It may prevent sensible parole policies in particular cases. I have also pointed out a number of practical problems with the amendment's drafting. For all of these reasons, I oppose the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the Chair. I thank the Senator from Utah and I congratulate him for his long work in this area. While I cannot support this legislation, it is certainly better than much I have seen in this area. I know he and Senators SESSIONS, BIDEN, and others, have spent a lot of time on this. I congratulate them for it. 
   Mr. President, I rise not to debate any particular amendment. There has been a lot of good discussion as to the grants, the programs, and as to the various amendments and details of what we should do and how much money we should spend on various programs. 
   I rise not to address that because I have a significant problem with the entire concept. I believe that our approach with regard to youth violence  here is misguided. First, I will address basically what this bill does. Among other things, it makes it easier to prosecute juveniles in Federal criminal court. We have from 100 to 200 prosecutions a year of juveniles in Federal court. It is a minuscule part of our criminal justice system. 
   In 1998, there were 58,000 Federal criminal cases filed involving 79,000 defendants. As I say, there were only 100 or 200 juvenile Federal crime cases among that group. This bill would make it easier to bring what has traditionally been a State matter into the Federal system. It makes it easier to try a juvenile as an adult. It would allow juveniles as young as 14 years of age to be tried as an adult for violent crimes and drug offenses--drug offenses, again, that are of the street crime category, where we have laws on the books in every State of the Union. It makes more local street crime Federal offenses--recruiting gang members and things of that nature. It allows the Attorney General to send in a Federal task force if she deems it necessary. 
   Then there is an array of programs and grants that this bill sets forth: Educational programs, educational grants for dropout prevention, school violence, restitution, child abuse, probation enhancement, mentoring programs, drug abuse, gang prevention, gun prevention, job training, afterschool activities, family strengthening, evaluation programs. Then this bill requires in a few instances, and in a few instances encourages, States to do certain other things if they want to participate and get this grant money and program money. It encourages boot camps, sentencing of juveniles who are as young as 10 years old as adults, encourages graduated sanctions, and encourages States to set up various kinds of programs for victims of juvenile crime. That is required if the States want this money. It requires communities to establish coalitions to replicate other communities. In other words, it requires coalitions of groups of law enforcement officers to get together and do some of the things that have been done in other 
   communities where they apparently have had good results. 
   Then we have seen research amendments with regard to crime in schools, establishing of hotlines, and increasing the penalties for various things. We have extended, by amendment, the 1994 crime bill that will spend about $31 billion over the next 5 years. This bill does all of these things. 
   Mr. President, it is a tremendous conglomeration of grants and programs and mandates, whereby we spend additional billions of dollars on matters that are being, or should be, covered by State and local laws, or that should be handled by local governments--such things that would be anticrime measures, tough on crime measures; or we are dealing with areas in which we really don't know what we are doing, with all due respect, as a Federal Government. With that, I am referring to basically prevention programs. 
   Basically, what we try to do is either get tough on crime programs, increasing penalties, and federalizing additional offenses, on the one hand, or coming in with prevention programs designed to reach young people before they get in trouble. Both are laudable goals. But not too long ago, I chaired the Youth Violence Juvenile Justice Subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee. We had extensive hearings. It is a subject that we are all concerned about. We are looking for solutions. I came away with the distinct feeling and impression that we need to concentrate more on research and evaluation of the underlying problems of juvenile violence. There is no question but that these are deep-rooted, social, complex problems about which we know very little. 
   I believe there is one thing the Federal Government does probably better than anybody else, and that is research and evaluation. We have the resources and we can get the capability and we can make the long-term commitment if we desire to come up with evaluation programs over a period of time to really determine what kind of programs work. We spend all of this money, we put forth all of these programs, and we really have no idea what is working. 
   We have 132 Federal criminal juvenile justice programs on the books today. I daresay we have very little idea what is really working and what is not working. We have another tragedy, so we double the money with regard, in many instances, to the same programs we have already. 
   Professor Alfred Blumstein was a witness before our committee. He is a professor at Carnegie-Mellon University. He talked about the research and evaluation that was needed. You could not listen to him without coming away with a certain feeling of humility about how little we know regarding this matter. He said:  
   The last 25 years has seen a considerable accumulation of research findings and insights that were not available earlier. Those research findings, however, reflect only a tiny portion of what we need to know to make effective policy and operational decisions in each of the many areas relating to juvenile violence.  
   He said:  
   There have been some evaluations of various kinds of rehabilitation programs, and these are encouraging, but we have very little in the way of evaluation of prevention programs. This is partly because so little has been done, but also because it is very difficult to measure the effects of programs whose effects may not be observed for a decade or more.  
   In other words, what he is saying is, in order to have an evaluation of a research program worth its salt, we need to set it up for a decade or more. 
   He goes on to say:  
   ..... Thus, while it is clear that much important research has been conducted over the past decade, it is also clear that we are still at an extremely primitive stage of knowledge regarding violence, especially for directing focused action, and that much more still needs to be done.  
   He says:  
   ..... we need much more and better information on the development and the nature of criminal careers .....  
   He goes on and on and says:  
   ..... The major growth in juvenile violence is not only of concern itself, but it is symptomatic of many key aspects of juvenile development that need major attention. The knowledge base to address these issues is remarkably thin in terms of knowing how best to intervene in these developmental processes.  
   So, Mr. President, instead of passing additional laws, additional get-tough-on-crime measures, instead of establishing a Federal entity that is sufficiently funded where there is a commitment over many, many years, instead of focusing on research and evaluation before we go about implementing these policies, we are now coming up with the same old responses that we have had in the past. 
   In this bill, there is some research and evaluation provisions that I think are very good; in fact, some of the things we worked on in times past when I was on the Judiciary Committee. But it is minuscule in comparison to what we need. Research and evaluation programs are scattered out among the States, a little bit here and there. We need a long-term Federal commitment in the one area where the Federal Government does it best--for research and evaluation of programs. We can see what works--which of these 132 Federal programs are working--and then be a clearinghouse for State and local governments so they can get the benefit of that knowledge, and they can go back and implement their own programs, 
   instead of us instituting all of these grants and all of these programs directing States to do some things, and encouraging States to do other things, thinking that we have answers that we do not have. We are getting the cart before the horse because of the tragic circumstances we are faced with. 
   We know now that some of these programs are very questionable in terms of results. 
   The DARE program, the GREAT program, some of the mentoring programs--we simply know that in some cases there is absolutely no objective data that indicates they are doing any good, and in some cases there is expert testimony that in fact they are doing some bad things. 
   We cannot sit up here and have things occur to us that sound good to us and assume they are going to work out in real life. That is how we got the airbags that killed children. That is how we got the program of asbestos removal that we now know was the wrong way to go about that problem. We need to have a little humility as we approach this problem. 
   We encourage things. There are some amendments, such as counseling programs for juvenile violence in schools,  and so forth. I understand they have a gymnasium full of counselors out there in Colorado now that people are not using. We encourage boot camps for juveniles as adults when we know now that in some cases juveniles treated as juveniles will get more than they do being treated as adults. 
   We want to pass additional gun laws. Every State in the Union has laws against children taking guns to school. We came in and overlaid that with Federal law that made it a Federal offense for kids to take guns to school. Now we have State laws and a Federal law. 
   Now we have had a tragedy. And goodness knows what the next batch of laws will be that portend to address this. 
   When I see statements made that by this bill we are giving our children back their childhood, or we are empowering parents to be decent parents, it concerns me that we may really believe that, because we do not have that ability, we do not have that power, we do not have that knowledge, or know-how. 
   What is the underlying philosophy for Federal involvement in this area, or Federal control in some cases? Is it expertise? Do we have more expertise on the Senate floor than out among the State and local people who deal with this problem every day? 
   I doubt it, because we keep coming up with the same old programs and adding one every once in a while. We have the waterfront covered as far as programs are concerned. I can't think of a program that has not been covered or funded in some way. 
   Is it because we have the money? Well, yes. We do have the money, because more and more we are depriving States and local governments of their sources of revenue, bringing it to Washington, then doling it back to them and telling them how to spend it, as if we knew. 
   In this bill we have $450 million for juvenile accountability block grants, $75 million for juvenile criminal history upgrades, $200 million for challenge grants, $200 million for JJDPA prevention grants, $40 million for the National Institute for Juvenile Crime Control and Prevention, of which $20 million would go to evaluation research, $20 million for gang programs, $20 million for the demonstration programs, $15 million for mentoring programs. 
   I defy anyone to point out to me which one of these programs is working or not working of the ones that we already have on the books that basically track these same kinds of efforts. 
   Is the federalization of this matter because the problem is bigger and, therefore, we have to address it? I don't think that is the case. We continue to federalize matters that are so insignificant that we don't even prosecute them once they get on the books. 
   We now have Federal laws with regard to animal enterprise terrorism, theft of livestock, and odometer tampering. There has been a total of four prosecutions nationwide for all three of those acts. 
   Now we have a horrendous incident out in Colorado, which disturbs all of us. But the fact of the matter is that less than 1 percent of youth homicides occur in schools. 
   Deaths by homicide is the second leading cause of deaths among children, second to accidents. And much of that has to do with driving while intoxicated and things of that nature. 
   Mr. President, the 10th amendment was put in the Constitution for a reason. The Federal Government ought to do the things the Federal Government is good at and leave the States alone to do the things the Constitution gives them under the Constitution. There is no plenary Federal law enforcement power under the Constitution. 
   We think we have a good result up here with a program in Boston, or wherever, so that we want to authorize the Attorney General to go in and put that program in other places. If it were a good program, logic would extend it to every place in the country, which means a Federal police power. And we do not want that. 
   We held federalism hearings the other day. We had a consensus from Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives, law enforcement officers and defense lawyers. And they are all concerned about the trend toward federalizing what essentially have been State and local matters for more than 200 years. 
   There were 1,000 bills introduced in the 105th Congress. A lot of them had to do with juvenile crimes. No one knows actually how many Federal crimes are on the books now; the statutes are so complicated. Some people say 3,000. But with the administrative regulations, and so forth, there are thousands and thousands of statutes and regulations that have criminal consequences. That is the wrong direction. 
   The Federal Government should cover things in the Federal criminal law that have to do with Federal people or property, and interstate transactions that are truly interstate. Local corruption conflicts, litigation of civil rights, and things of that nature; that is, the law enforcement side of the equation, that is the equation that the State and local governments have the responsibility for. If we take that away from them, either in one fell swoop or gradually, they will do a worse job of it in the future instead of a better job. 
   On the prevention side, especially with regard to juveniles, let us have a little modesty and acknowledge that we do not know the answers to these problems. Some of them we will never know. They are complex. They are inherent societal problems that we did not get into overnight; we will not get out of them overnight. 
   But I would suggest again that instead of spending these 
   billions of dollars--literally billions of dollars on top of billions of dollars--on programs about which we have no idea of their efficacy, what is working and what is not working, let's scale that way back and put some money up here for some long-term research and evaluation for over a decade or so, so we can really tell what works. Let us be a clearinghouse and an example then for the States. We don't have to dole out the money to them or suggest that they do this program or that program when we don't know what we are doing. They can see what works and what doesn't work. 
   On the grounds of the Federal Government properly doing what it should be doing, letting the States do their traditional job under the Constitution, and, second, on the grounds of a little bit of modesty in terms of crime prevention--and that is where it is as far as these juveniles are concerned, on the prevention side--we have to get to these kids earlier. But the fact of the matter is, we are scattered to the four winds, throwing billions of dollars at a problem without knowing what the solution is. 
   There is only one way that I see we can go, and that is more research for Federal evaluation and research, and in the meantime let's hold our horses and not respond to the headlines--the most difficult thing in the world to do. But by getting out front and pretending we can do things we can't do, we are setting the cause back; we are not advancing it. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, on its face, this resolution is hard to challenge. Of course, we want to do whatever it takes to win a conflict we are engaged in. However, voting for this Resolution, while appealing to my instincts, would go against what I believe to be my obligation. This Resolution is essentially a Declaration of War--a Declaration of War that the President hasn't even requested. It would give to the President a blank check for an indefinite period of time, regardless of  any changes in circumstances. It does not even require that we act in concert with our NATO allies. 
   Congress' Constitutional authority to declare war presupposes that the President will support such action. In each of the five wars for which Congress has passed Declarations of War, none have come without a specific presidential request. This resolution today, however, would grant the President authority he has not sought, based on the War Powers Resolution he does not recognize, to fight a ground war he has promised he will not undertake. 
   If the Commander in Chief decides that we need ground troops in Yugoslavia, then he should come to the Congress and request them. At that time, the Congress would have the opportunity to ask certain questions, such as: 
   what are our vital national interests here? 
   what are our military and political objectives? 
   do we propose to take Belgrade or parts or all of Kosovo? 
   how do we propose to get our troops into the battle area? 
   how many troops will it take? 
   how many casualties do we expect? 
   what will be the make up of the NATO ground forces?  
   e.g., how many U.S. troops?  
   how long will it take us to achieve our objectives? 
   how thinly spread will we be left in other places in the world where we have military commitments? 
   what is the overall commitment level of our NATO allies, both with regard to such an operation and with regard to its aftermath? 
   When and if that time comes, I will ask these questions and others and listen carefully to the answers. I will give it careful consideration and cast my vote depending upon the circumstances that exist at that time. If we pass this Resolution now, however, I fear that these important questions will never be answered. 
   When Congress was first consulted with regard to the air campaign in Yugoslavia, it was done almost as an afterthought, after the Administration had already made its decision to begin bombing. Many of us felt at the time what we should all now know with certainty--that Administration officials had not adequately considered all of the ramifications of what they were doing. On the heels of that experience, should Congress now, when the stakes have been raised much higher, authorize and even pressure the Administration to fight a ground war that they are clearly not prepared to fight? Does the Senate not want answers to why and how a ground campaign would work--the kind of answers that we should have demanded before the Senate voted to approve the air campaign? 
   And with regard to the timing of this resolution, some now suggest that more time should be devoted to debating this issue and I agree. However, this argument is being made a little late. It would have been more helpful if we had had a more extended discussion of this issue at a time when it might have had more relevance--before the final decision for the bombing campaign was made. At that time, the President should have explained to the Congress and the American people why going to war in the Balkans was in our national interest. We should have demanded it. However, he didn't and the Senate, after a debate under a 30 minute time agreement, gave pro forma approval to a decision that had already been made. 
   And now in the middle of a bombing campaign that the President still says will achieve our objectives, we are asked to cast another vote that will have no effect. So be it. But I would hope that in the future we would take up these matters earlier in the process and not let the President present them to us as a fait accompli. Perhaps then the two branches of government could come together with some unity of purpose and we could all go to the American people with a clear message about our intent and about our interests. What we are witnessing now in the disunity of the Congress and among the American people is the result of our failure to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr President, I am pleased to join Senator LEVIN and a bipartisan group of our colleagues in introducing legislation to promote smarter regulation by the federal government. The Regulatory Improvement Act is an effort by many of us who want to improve the quality of government to find a common solution. I am pleased that we are introducing this bill with Senators VOINOVICH, ROBB ABRAHAM, ROCKEFELLER, ROTH, DASCHLE, STEVENS, MOYNIHAN, COCHRAN, BREAUX, FRIST, LINCOLN, ENZI, GRAMS, and GRASSLEY. The supporters of this bill represent a real diversity of political viewpoints, but we share the same goals. We want an effective government that protects public health, well-being and the environment. We want our government to achieve those goals in the most sensible and efficient way possible. We want to do the best we can with what we've got, and to do more good at less cost if possible. The Regulatory Improvement Act will help us do that. 
   The Regulatory Improvement Act is based on a simple premise: people have a right to know how and why government agencies make their most important and expensive regulatory decisions. This legislation also will improve the quality of government decision making--which will lead to a more effective Federal government. And it will make government more accountable to the people it serves. 
   The Regulatory Improvement Act will require the Federal government to make better use of modern decisionmaking tools (such as risk assessment  and benefit-cost analysis), which are currently under-used. Right now, these tools are simply options--options that aren't used as much or as well as they should be. Under this legislation, agencies will carefully consider and disclose the benefits and costs of different regulatory alternatives and seek out the smartest, most flexible solutions. This legislation also will help the Federal government set smarter priorities--to better focus money and other resources on the most serious problems. 
   This legislation not only gives people the right to know; it gives them the right to see--to see how the government works, or how it doesn't. And by providing people with information the government uses to make decisions, it gives people a real opportunity to influence those decisions. The bill empowers people and their State and local officials to provide input into the Federal rulemaking system. It will make the Federal government more mindful of how unfunded mandates can burden communities and interfere with local priorities. That is why our governors, mayors, state legislators, and county officials support the Regulatory Improvement Act. 
   We have worked hard to build a solid foundation for smarter regulatory decisionmaking. Last March, the Governmental Affairs Committee favorably reported the Regulatory Improvement Act, then S. 981, by a 10-5 vote. At the time of the markup, the Administration sent a letter to me and Senator LEVIN expressing a number of concerns with the bill. We worked to resolve those concerns, which largely involved adding clarifying language to the bill. In addition, some sections of the bill were modified, and a couple were dropped. On July 15, Jack Lew, the Director of OMB, sent us a letter on behalf of the Administration. The letter states that the President supports the legislation. I am pleased that the White House recognizes the importance of the legislation to deliver the effective and efficient regulatory system that the American people expect and deserve. 
   This legislation will add transparency to the current rulemaking process, raise the quality of regulatory analyses so smarter decisions can be made, and help expedite important safeguards--to reduce risks and save lives. It will help us get more of the good things sensible regulation can deliver. That's why the Regulatory Improvement Act has broad bipartisan support and is endorsed by state and local officials, government reformers and scholars, small business owners, farmers, corporate leaders, and school board members. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this much-needed legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, we at the Governmental Affairs Committee are, indeed, conducting hearings with regard to the independent counsel. The criticisms of the Independent Counsel Act have been many and well known for many, many years. The Act was passed in 1978. I was one of the ones who was critical of the idea that you could set somebody up totally separate and outside the process and not accountable in the very beginning. 
   A lot of my friends now who criticize the Act, of course, thought it was a very good idea back when the independent counsel were investigating the other party. All of the criticisms about Mr. Starr, of course, were applicable to Mr. Walsh's investigation, which went on longer, cost more than Mr. Starr's investigation back during previous administrations. 
   We should not look at this in terms of who is investigating whom. As I say, I have been critical of it all along. I still am. But the question is, Where is the power going to reside if you have a real conflict of interest? If you have a President of the United States who has been accused of serious misconduct, can his appointee, the Attorney General, investigate that with any credibility? I think for most of the Attorneys General we have had throughout our history, the answer is, yes, they have been people of great integrity. But what about the perception? Is that a good idea? 
   So if we do not have an independent counsel, we give it back to the employee of the President to investigate the President? That is an inherent conflict of interest. Attorney General Reno herself, the Department, the administration back in 1993, all agreed that was a bad idea, and they were for the independent counsel. Now, recent events, and Mr. Starr's criticism, has caused them to reverse on a dime and say that they have discovered structural defects in the statute. 
   The statute has been basically the same since 1978. They are just now discovering those structural defects in the statute. It looks an awful lot like the question of, Whose ox is being gored? But we are trying to stay away from too much of that. 
   I have been critical, of course, of this Justice Department in not appointing an independent counsel in the case that I feel calls out for it the most. We have a classic case with regard to the campaign financing scandal--one of the largest scandals we have ever had in this country--a classic case for why the independent counsel law was passed. Yet all these others have been appointed, but when it comes to the big guy, we do not have an appointment in that particular case.  
   But, that aside, we are trying to examine all sides of this: Should we continue the law? Should we not continue the law? And if we continue the law, should we modify it? All those are possibilities. All those are on the table. And we do not know what the result is going to be yet. 
   So along comes this amendment that is on the floor now--a terribly bad idea. Regardless of whether you are for the independent counsel statute or against the independent counsel statute, the idea that Congress should step in, either now, 3 months from now, or 6 months from now, and call to a halt investigations that have been going on for a year--not just Mr. Starr's investigations but other independent counsel--and say, ``Congress knows best; we're going to get into the middle of these criminal investigations, and although we set up the independent counsel law that was passed in this U.S. Congress--they were duly appointed--we're going to call a halt to them because we don't like the people who are being investigated; we don't like the amount of money that you're spending,'' or all those newfound criticisms that we have been silent on up until now since 1978, is an extraordinarily bad idea. 
   The Congress has already determined that even if the independent counsel law lapses, these investigations that are ongoing should continue. 
   The Attorney General can ask the three-judge panel to call a halt to an investigation if she believes that it is justified. She has not done that. In fact, the Attorney General does not support this amendment. This amendment would say: Let's call a halt to all of it and give it back to the Attorney General. 
   I asked the Attorney General yesterday, in Governmental Affairs, just one question: ``As a matter of policy, do you think it would be wise for Congress to terminate current ongoing investigations, regardless of what happens after that?'' Attorney General Reno's response: ``I think since these investigations are underway, they should probably be concluded under the current framework.'' So she doesn't support this amendment, an extraordinarily bad idea. 
   So it goes back to the Attorney General under this amendment, as I say, not just Mr. Starr's investigation, but the investigation with regard to Mr. Cisneros, for example, others, the Webb Hubbell investigation. All of that would be brought to an end and sent back to the Attorney General. 
   And she has two choices: She can either keep it and dispose of it herself, at a time when that Department probably has less credibility than it has had in many, many years; or she can launch a new investigation and call for a new special counsel to come in--extraordinarily expensive, wasteful, nonsensical, Mr. President; a very, very bad idea, whether or not you are for or against the extension of the Independent Counsel Act. 
   Congress should not be interjecting itself to terminate investigations at midstream when there is also a mechanism, if it is justified, for that to be done. So I sincerely hope that my colleagues will join me in opposing this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-2-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, the Senate has previously determined if, in fact, the Independent Counsel Act is allowed to expire, investigations that are currently underway will be ongoing. Why did the Senate decide that? The obvious reason is it is a bad idea for the Congress to be terminating investigations in midstream and sending them back to Justice.  
   This amendment would reverse that previous determination that this body has made. They would send it back to Justice with choices: They would either have to shut down the investigation, make the determination themselves, which would be terrible in terms of appearance, or they would have to continue the investigation and bring somebody else in to do it, which would be terrible in terms of efficiency. 
   I asked Attorney General Reno in the Governmental Affairs Committee what she thought about it. She said, ``I think, since these investigations are underway, they should probably be concluded under the current framework.'' 
   I suggest this is a very bad idea and should be defeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. I thank the chair. 
   My friend from North Dakota points out that there are, indeed, other threats to this Nation besides those that pose a threat that this bill is designed to prevent. There are, indeed, other threats. He points out that our missile defense system may not stop all of the threats that are out there, and he, of course, is correct with regard to that, also. 
   I do not believe that is sufficient grounds for opposing a missile defense system for this country. We have become aware, 
   much more than we would like, recently of the new threats, the new world that we live in, the new threats that are posed not only from old sources but from many, many new sources, some of which we may not be fully aware of and what their capabilities might be, which apparently have missed the estimates of our own intelligence community, in many instances. 
   I agree with my friend concerning the Nunn-Lugar program. I have also visited Russia and have seen that program in operation and the many good things that it is doing and its related programs. We have a nuclear cities program over there where we are trying to turn some of their nuclear cities and help them turn their enterprises in other directions. 
   We have assisted with regard to their scientists hopefully so that they will not leave the country and go to places and spread technology in places that would be detrimental to us. 
   We have, indeed, destroyed some of the nuclear stockpile, but I think it is important to note that we are essentially still dipping in the ocean as far as that is concerned. We are just getting started in that regard. They have many, many more tons of nuclear materials and many, many missiles that we have not touched yet, even if we are aware of their existence. 
   We should not in any case believe that we have begun to seriously eat into the Soviet Union's nuclear capabilities. We are trying to do that. Those programs must be maintained. It is going to take a period of time before we can make any progress in that regard. 
   We have spent hundreds of millions of dollars in Russia in order to maintain these programs. Our taxpayers have made a decision that it is worthwhile that we go over there and try to make friends with the Russians and try to help them make this transition. We have put our cash on the barrel head to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars. That money is sorely needed in Russia right now, and hopefully it will be put to good use.  
   At the same time that we are doing this, our intelligence community and our Government still have serious concerns about proliferation activities of the Russians. When you consider the threats around the world and the so-called rogue nations and the outlaw nations and the dangers they present, oftentimes if you trace back to where they are getting their capabilities, you will go back to Russia, you will go back to China. It is a serious, serious problem. 
   If what we are saying today is that if the United States protects itself with a missile defense program, not only is Russia going to continue to proliferate but it is going to refuse the hundreds of millions of dollars that we propose to put in there, then so be it. I think we still have to go forward in the best interests of our country. 
   Make no mistake; we do not want to abrogate understandings lightly. Everyone knows the circumstances have totally changed. Our deal with the U.S.S.R. no longer exists. We have shown our friendship. The Soviet Union for years and years said, ``We have to counter the United States of America, because they have all these hostile intentions and they have these aggressive tendencies.'' 
   We have shown that not to be the case. We have reached out a hand of friendship, but we cannot, in turn, be threatened with closing us out, especially when they are still too often spreading nuclear technology and capability and missile capability around the world at a time when we are considering whether or not we want to have a missile defense system to protect ourselves against whomever might be hostile to us in the future. 
   Clearly, that is not Russia today. But it is a dangerous world out there in many, many more respects than when the old Soviet Union posed its threat. 
   Many of my colleagues have already recited the growing missile and weapons of mass destruction threats which America faces from many hostile and potentially hostile countries, and I will not take the time to recite them again. Most of these threats in fact were well known when we voted on missile defense last September. What is new since the last time we debated missile defense is the news that China has obtained the design for our most modern nuclear weapon, the W-88 warhead. This technology permits the development of massively destructive nuclear warheads at a fraction of the size previously possible. 
   Acquiring this technology will allow the Chinese to fit multiple warheads into a single missile for the first time and to deploy more nuclear weapons on submarines. Of course, this revelation must be coupled with the knowledge that because of lax export controls, the Chinese have also been able to obtain American technology to improve the guidance of their missiles and to develop the capability to deliver multiple warheads from one missile. 
   As we saw in the hearings of the Governmental Affairs Committee in our International Security Subcommittee, chaired by Senator COCHRAN, last year, cooperation with American satellite manufacturers has actually helped Beijing learn how to build better missiles and deploy multiple payloads from a single rocket. This enhances China's capability to develop this latter technology for use on ballistic missiles. As a result, they will be able to launch multiple warheads from a single missile, a capability called MIRV'ing. 
   So now the Chinese have more reliable missiles, each of which may soon become capable of delivering multiple warheads with one shot. And now they have stolen the final ingredient to make this work--our own most sophisticated miniature warhead design. 
   But that is not all the U.S. technology they have. American supercomputers may allow China to maintain the W-88 without nuclear testing. The administration has loosened export restrictions on this technology. The Chinese are also reported to have stolen U.S. laser technology and, in conjunction with advanced computers, may have helped them simulate nuclear explosions in the laboratory. 
   Now the United States has a huge program underway to develop the means to ensure the viability of its weapons without conducting test explosions. Were the Chinese to develop similar capabilities, then they could maintain this W-88 and other modern warheads without testing. This would enable Beijing to conduct nuclear weapons work without telltale underground explosions and help the Chinese missile force threaten the United States for decades to come. 
   So what does this actually mean in terms of U.S. national security? Until now, China's nuclear arsenal has been quite small, built around a comparatively tiny force of land-based and mostly liquid-fueled intercontinental ballistic missiles. However, thanks to the acquisition, both legal and illegal, of new technologies, Beijing now stands on the verge of both a qualitative and a quantitative breakthrough. 
   There are at least four new missile programs currently underway designed to provide the People's Liberation Army with dramatically improved capabilities by the first years of the 
   next century. Moreover, the Chinese now have a class of submarine capable of launching ballistic missiles. These developments are highly relevant to our debates over U.S. missile defense. 
   Moreover, Mr. President, these developments threaten not only the United States but pose a more imminent threat to our allies in Asia. They are at least as worried as we are about missile and weapons of mass destruction advances by China and North Korea. After all, countries such as Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan are much more likely targets for these weapons than we are--at least for now. 
   If ongoing Chinese missile deployments and nuclear proliferation are not addressed, and if we do not provide access to effective missile defenses to U.S. allies in Asia, then such vulnerable countries may have little choice but to try to develop their own means of nuclear defense or deterrence. This would intensify rather than diminish the proliferation problem in Asia and is yet another reason it is imperative that we develop the interrelated technologies and control systems for theater-level and national-level missile defenses. 
   We should not forget that China has a well established propensity to export its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile technology. It has been reported in the press, for example, that China provided a fully tested nuclear weapons design and highly enriched uranium to Pakistan. China has also provided ballistic missile technology to Pakistan and other countries. In 1988, China provided a turnkey medium-range missile system to Saudi Arabia. That is an entire weapons system ready to use right out of the box. China has also a record of providing nuclear, chemical, and biological missile technology to Iran. 
   Furthermore, the Rumsfeld Commission reported that a number of countries hostile to the United States, including Iran, Libya, Iraq, and North Korea, are capable of manufacturing weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles and that previous United States intelligence assessments had greatly underestimated the danger that such developments pose to the United States. Should China decide to export the W-88 or a complete weapon to such nations, as has been done with so many other dangerous technologies, the consequences for regional and global stability would be grave indeed. 
   All this, Mr. President, makes it more important than ever that the National Missile Defense Act of 1999 be passed. Faced with new and growing nuclear and ballistic missile threats, in part through our own carelessness, America needs the protection that such a missile defense system would offer. And Americans need the confidence of knowing that a system will be deployed rather than waiting on some future administrative decision on whether to deploy. 
   It is time for Congress to act. The technology to develop and deliver nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction is widely available and is spreading rapidly. If we do not prepare today, when the day arrives that America is paralyzed by our own vulnerability to ballistic missile attack or when an attack actually occurs, we will be reduced to telling the American people and history merely that we had hoped this would not happen. 
   I urge my colleagues to support S. 257, the National Missile Defense Act of 1999. I yield the floor. 
   Mr. BIDEN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the Education Flexibility Partnership Act of 1999, better known as Ed-Flex. This bill will help to restore the proper respect for the ability of states and local communities to educate our children. I applaud the work done by my colleagues, BILL FRIST and RON WYDEN,  and I am pleased to join them as a cosponsor of this bill. Ed-Flex is a common sense, bipartisan, cost-effective approach that empowers states and local communities to put their focus where it belongs--on educating our children, not on complying with federal mandates. 
   The principle of federalism is vital to our democracy. This principle holds that the Federal Governmental has limited powers and that government closest to the people--states and local communities--is best positioned to serve the people. Our Founding Fathers had serious concerns about the tendency of our government to centralize power and to encroach on a state's ability to improve the lives of its citizens. 
   This federal encroachment has been particularly pronounced in the area of education. The U.S. Constitution assigns Washington no responsibility at all for education. Indeed, for its first two centuries, America's Federal Government understood that the 10th amendment left responsibility for education to the states. America's education system works best when parents, teachers, and local school officials, who know our students best, make the decisions about where a school spends its money. But as federal involvement in education increased since the 1960's, Washington began to regulate how our schools spend their funds. Even after all these new regulations, America's dropout rates are near 40 percent in many urban areas, three-fourths of all 4th graders in high-poverty communities cannot read at a basic level, and our most disadvantaged communities remain in need of real education reform. 
   Americans understand that Washington can't possibly know what is best for a particular student in Memphis or in Los Angeles or in Miami. Patrick Jacob of Germantown, TN, wrote to me earlier this month to remind me that when the Federal Government tells our schools how to spend their money, it reduces the community's ability to take responsibility for educating our children. 
   There are real solutions in education and they are coming from states from Texas to North Carolina and Arizona and from cities from Milwaukee to New York. However, federal regulations often prohibit states from expanding these reforms. Ed-Flex will give state and local school officials greater freedom from burdensome requirements of federal education statutes or regulations that impede local efforts to improve education. For example, if the parents, teachers and leaders of a particular school district decide that additional money is needed for reading instruction, that school district should not be precluded from shifting its resources to achieve that goal. Ed-Flex will free our schools to make more of these critical choices for themselves. Ed-Flex costs American taxpayers nothing. And instead of sending another unfunded mandate down from Washington, it provides our states with what governors from both parties asked us for when they came to Washington last week--flexibility. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent on behalf of the Governmental Affairs Committee to meet on Thursday, March 4, 1999, at 10 a.m. for a business meeting to consider legislation to reform the congressional budget process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I am pleased to support the Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999. As a strong believer in our federalist system of government, I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this legislation, which will cut red tape and waste in Federal grant and other assistance programs that impact State and local government, as well as nonprofit organizations. It is fitting that my good friend from Ohio, GEORGE VOINOVICH, is now providing leadership on this effort in the Senate. As a governor and Chairman of the National Governors' Association, GEORGE VOINOVICH strongly supported this bill from outside Congress. While we reported the bill out of the Governmental Affairs Committee and passed it through the Senate last year, unfortunately it did not become law. It's time to get the job done. 
   This legislation will improve the performance of Federal grant and other  assistance programs by streamlining their application, administration, and reporting requirements for grant recipients--including State, local and tribal governments and nonprofit organizations. The Federal agencies, with guidance from the Office of Management and Budget, would develop plans within 18 months to streamline application, administrative and reporting requirements, develop uniform applications for related programs, develop and expand the use of electronic applications and reporting via the Internet, demonstrate interagency coordination in simplifying requirements for cross-cutting programs, and set annual goals to further the purposes of the Act. 
   Agencies would then consult with outside parties in developing their plans. The agencies would submit their plans and annual reports to the Director of OMB and to Congress, and they could be made a part of other management reports required under law. In addition to overseeing and coordinating agency activities, OMB would develop more common rules to cut across programs and would develop a release form to allow grant information to be shared across programs. 
   This legislation has been endorsed by many organizations representing our State and local government partners, including the National Governors' Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the National League of Cities, the Council of State Governments, and the National Association of Counties. It is a good government, common sense initiative. Let's pull together and pass this bill into law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, Senate Standing Rule XXVI requires each committee to adopt rules to govern the procedures of the Committee and to publish those rules in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD not later than March 1 of the first year of each Congress. On January 20, 1999, the Committee on Governmental Affairs held a business meeting during which the members of the Committee unanimously adopted the rules to govern the procedures of the Committee. In addition, a majority of members of the Committee's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations adopted subcommittee rules of procedure on February 12, 1999. 
   Consistent with Standing Rule XXVI, today I am submitting for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD a copy of the rules of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs and its Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to honor and recognize an outstanding University of Tennessee Lady Volunteers basketball player, senior Chamique Holdsclaw. 
   Last week, Chamique Holdsclaw was recognized as the outstanding amateur athlete in the nation when she was awarded the 1998 James E. Sullivan Memorial Award. Chamique is the first female basketball player--and only the  third basketball player, male or female--to win the award in its 69-year history. 
   It comes as no surprise to those of us from Tennessee that Chamique, the second University of Tennessee athlete in two years to take the honor, follows former Volunteer quarterback Peyton Manning. Other winners of this prestigious award include Bill Walton, Bill Bradley, Bonnie Blair, Florence Griffith-Joyner and Bruce Jenner. 
   Mr. President, Chamique Holdsclaw is one of the finest college basketball players in America, who time after time has displayed grace under pressure, sinking last-minute, game-winning shots. She has led both her high school and college teams to national basketball championships. And of course we all remember last year when she led the Lady Volunteers to a 39-0 record and a third straight national title. Chamique has Tennessee on track for a fourth straight title this season. 
   To measure the impact this Tennessee senior has had on women's sports over the past four years, you did not have to look any farther than across from the Lady Vols bench last week, where former Sullivan winner Jackie Joyner-Kersee sat. After meeting Chamique at an awards ceremony two weeks ago, Joyner-Kersee was so impressed that she flew in from St. Louis for Chamique's final regular-season home game, in which she scored 25 points and pulled down 11 rebounds. 
   Regardless of what greatness Chamique Holdsclaw achieves in her pro career, her time at Tennessee has clearly changed the game. Though plenty of women's college basketball legends came before her, Chamique became her sport's first national superstar. She took hold of that spotlight, thrived under the pressure it brought with it, and made history. 
   Mr. President, the Sullivan Award recognizes athletes who have excelled in competition while exhibiting leadership, character and sportsmanship. Chamique Holdsclaw embodies each of these qualities and is the kind of person we should encourage all our young people to emulate. Her determination and dedication to excellence remind us that we each have the power to make a positive difference.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today Senator FRIST and I are introducing a bill to establish the Howard Baker School of Government on the campus of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. 
   The University of Tennessee has a long and proud tradition of providing the highest quality education to students from Tennessee and around the world. The Howard Baker School of Government would be but the latest installment in this institution's ongoing commitment to preparing its student body by giving them the tools and knowledge necessary to succeed in the pursuit of their dreams. 
   With this said, I can think of no greater tribute to our friend and colleague, the former Majority Leader of this body, Senator Howard Baker, than to further his legacy of promoting the best in our political system by establishing this School in his honor. 
   In many ways, Senator Baker's entire life has been a lesson in public service. Those of us from his home state of Tennessee have matured in his shadow and have been inspired by his vision. His positive influence has not, however, been limited by Tennessee's borders. Senator Baker is one of those rare individuals whose leadership has lifted the entire nation. Creating this School of Government in his name would not only be a tribute to a man but a logical extension of that man's continuing lifework. 
   In 1966, Senator Baker became the first Republican popularly elected to the United States Senate in Tennessee's history. This was not because of a great rise in Tennessee's Republican population, but rather was an indication of Senator Baker's unique ability to reach out to people of different backgrounds with diverging views and spark in them that all-encompassing common vision--that we live together in a great nation that has an even greater future. 
   Senator Baker served in this body from 1967 until January 1985, as Minority Leader from 1977 until 1981, and then as Majority Leader until his retirement. After leaving the Senate, Senator Baker served admirably as Chief of Staff to President Ronald Reagan and he continues to this day to provide us with a keen insight into the principles of true leadership. 
   Throughout each phase of Senator Baker's life he has clearly demonstrated that statesmanship is not something relegated to our history books. It is alive and well. His continuing example is a call to each of us that we can and should rise to the challenge of citizenship in a way that brings us together as a nation and further strengthens this great experiment called the United States. 
   I can think of no better union than the ideals and example of Senator Howard Baker with the dedication to higher education of the University of Tennessee. The Howard Baker School of Government will be an institution each of us can be proud to have supported and one that will further the principles of good government to which each of us is committed.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. In 1994, Paula Corbin Jones sued President Clinton for sexual harassment which she alleged he committed against her in 1991, when he was Governor of Arkansas. The Supreme Court of the United States permitted the lawsuit to proceed in 1997. 
   Monica Lewinsky began work as a White House intern on July 10, 1995. At the time, she was twenty-one years old. She later worked in the Office of Legislative Affairs at the White House. In 1996, she left the White House for a job at the Department of Defense. 
   The first day that Ms. Lewinsky spoke with President Clinton, November 15, 1995, she and the President engaged in sexual relations. Their sexual relationship lasted until 1997. The two also engaged in telephone sex at least seventeen times, and they exchanged numerous gifts. The two agreed to keep their relationship secret through the use of cover stories. Ms. Lewinsky, if discovered in the Oval Office, was to say that she was delivering papers, although her job duties never included delivering papers. Once she left the White House, her visits to the President were disguised as visits to Presidential secretary Betty Currie. 
   The President told Ms. Lewinsky that she could return to the White House after the 1996 election had concluded. Although Ms. Lewinsky tried numerous times to regain employment at the White House, she was never able to do so. After being informed by a friend, Linda Tripp, that she would never be permitted to return to the White House, Ms. Lewinsky decided to seek employment in New York, initially receiving and rejecting a job offer with the United States Ambassador to the United Nations. She then decided to seek employment in New York in the private sector. On November 5, 1997, she met with Vernon Jordan, a prominent Washington lawyer and friend of President Clinton, to seek his assistance in securing such a position. This meeting was arranged by Ms. Currie. Mr. Jordan took no action to help her in November, and does not remember meeting her at this time.  
   On December 5, 1997, attorneys for Ms. Jones notified the President's attorneys of their list of witnesses. That list included Ms. Lewinsky. Although she was unaware at the time that her name was on the Jones litigation witness list, Lewinsky coincidentally decided to terminate her relationship with the President the following day, but was unable to see him at the White House. President Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky initially exchanged angry words that day over the telephone, but later that day, she came to the White House at his invitation. During this meeting, Ms. Lewinsky told the President that Mr. Jordan had not appeared to have done anything to help her in her job search. In a conversation Ms. Lewinsky described as ``sweet'' and ``very affectionate,'' he told her that he would speak to Mr. Jordan about her job situation. The President did not at that time inform Ms. Lewinsky that her name was on the witness list. 
   Ms. Currie again called Mr. Jordan, and on December 8, 1997, Ms. Lewinsky called to set another appointment with Mr. Jordan for December 11. Although Ms. Lewinsky provided Mr. Jordan with a list of corporations in which she was interested in obtaining employment, Mr. Jordan determined based on his own contacts which companies he would pursue on Ms. Lewinsky's behalf. Following his meeting with Ms. Lewinsky, acting by his own admission at the behest of the President, Jordan called three corporate executives in New York. He also called the President to report on his efforts on behalf of Ms. Lewinsky. 
   December 11, 1997 was also the date on which Judge Susan Webber Wright, the presiding judge in the Jones litigation, issued an order permitting Jones' attorneys to pursue discovery concerning the names of any state or federal employees with whom the President had had sexual relations, proposed sexual relations, or sought to have sexual relations. 
   On December 17, 1997, between 2:00 and 2:30 a.m., the President telephoned Ms. Lewinsky. He informed her that Ms. Currie's brother had been killed, as well as that her name was on the Jones witness list. The President indicated that if Ms. Lewinsky were subpoenaed, she should let Ms. Currie know. He also told her that she might be able to sign an affidavit in that event to avoid testifying. In addition, he suggested that she could say that she was coming to see Betty or was bringing him papers. Ms. Lewinsky says that she understood implicitly that she was to continue to deny their relationship. 
   Ms. Lewinsky was subpoenaed to testify in the Jones litigation on December 19, 1997. The subpoena also required Ms. Lewinsky to produce all gifts that she had received from the President, and enumerated one specific gift that the President had given Ms. Lewinsky, a hatpin. Because Ms. Currie was in mourning, Lewinsky called Jordan, who invited her to his office. She was in a highly emotional state, and that fact, combined with her statements in the conversation that demonstrated her personal fascination with the President, prompted Jordan to ask whether she, a person for whom he was providing job assistance, had had sexual relations with the President. He says she denied such relations. Jordan took a telephone call from the President during that meeting, and made plans to see him that night. Jordan later called Frank Carter, a Washington lawyer, to arrange a meeting at which he would refer Ms. Lewinsky to Mr. Carter as a client. 
   Notwithstanding Ms. Lewinsky's denial of sexual relations with the President, Jordan asked President Clinton that same evening the same question. The President also denied having had sexual relations with Ms. Lewinsky. Jordan also conveyed a number of Lewinsky's statements to the President, and informed Clinton that Lewinsky had received a subpoena to testify in the Jones case. Following a discussion in which Lewinsky informed Jordan of the nature of the telephone calls she had had with the President, Jordan drove Lewinsky to a meeting at Mr. Carter's office on December 22. 
   The President met with Ms. Lewinsky on December 28, 1997, at which time they again exchanged gifts. They discussed the subpoena, and she expressed concern, which the President shared, about the specific enumeration of the hatpin, since that suggested that someone knew details of their relationship. Ms. Lewinsky then suggested taking the gifts out of her apartment or giving them to Ms. Currie. The President responded, ``I don't know'' or ``Let me think about that.'' Later that same day, Ms. Lewinsky's consistent recollection is that Ms. Currie called her and stated, ``I understand you have something to give me'' or ``the President said you have something to give me.'' Ms. Currie later drove to Ms. Lewinsky's apartment, picked up a box containing gifts the President had given Ms. Lewinsky, and hid that box under her bed without asking any questions. 
   On December 31, 1997, Jordan and Lewinsky had breakfast. Lewinsky, fearing that her relationship with the President would become known and wanting to ensure that she not appear responsible for its becoming known, told Jordan that she possessed notes she had addressed to the President that suggested the nature of their relationship. According to Lewinsky, Jordan told her to dispose of those notes. Jordan initially denied that he ever had breakfast with Lewinsky, 
   but later recalled having done so when shown the receipt. But he denied ever telling Lewinsky to destroy any notes. 
   Ms. Lewinsky pursued filing an affidavit to obviate the need for her to testify in the Jones case. On January 6, 1998, she communicated to Mr. Jordan concerns she had about the affidavit that Mr. Carter had drafted for her. Jordan telephoned Carter with her suggestions. Although Mr. Jordan denies the allegations, Ms. Lewinsky contends that she informed Jordan about the details of Carter's proposed affidavit, and that she and Jordan made changes to it prior to her signing it. Lewinsky also spoke with the President about Carter's questions to her about how she obtained her Pentagon job. The President told her that she ``could always say that the people in Legislative Affairs got it for you or helped you get it.'' 
   On January 7, 1998, Lewinsky signed an affidavit denying sexual relations with the President. She later testified that the affidavit was false. She showed Jordan the affidavit, and Jordan spoke with the President after conferring with Ms. Lewinsky about the changes. Lewinsky testified that she believed that the President would be satisfied with any affidavit that Jordan approved. 
   The following day, Lewinsky was interviewed at a company that Jordan had called on her behalf. Believing that the interview had proceeded poorly, she called Jordan, who then called the head of the holding company of the firm with which she had interviewed. Jordan asked that a second interview be granted Lewinsky. She interviewed again the next day, and was made an informal job offer. Jordan testified that his ``magic'' was responsible for that offer. Lewinsky informed Jordan of her success, and he telephoned Ms. Currie to notify her: ``Mission accomplished.'' He later informed the President. 
   The President was scheduled to be deposed in the Jones litigation on January 17, 1998. The President knew that one of the issues was his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. For the affidavit to successfully deflect questions to the President concerning that relationship, the affidavit would have had to have been filed in time for the court to consider it and for the President's lawyers to see it before the deposition. The President's lawyers called Ms. Lewinsky's attorney once on January 14, twice on January 15, and once on January 16. On the 15th, Lewinsky's lawyer, Mr. Carter, sent President Clinton's counsel a copy of the affidavit. Mr. Carter also called the court twice on that day to ensure that the affidavit could be filed on January 17. 
   During his deposition, President Clinton made numerous false statements while under oath. These included the sexual nature of his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, and whether they had exchanged gifts. He relied on the same cover stories as he had discussed with Ms. Lewinsky. The President's lawyer used Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit in an attempt to deflect questions about the President's relationship with her, specifically stating that the President had already seen that affidavit. As the President appeared to be  paying close attention, he did not contradict his attorney when he represented to the court that ``there is absolutely no sex of any kind in any manner, shape or form with President Clinton.......'' And he testified, when asked by his attorney, that Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit was absolutely true. However, the judge insisted that President Clinton answer additional questions about his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. These questions were asked based on the judge's peculiar ruling that used only one-third of a standard courtroom definition of ``sexual relations'' and the plaintiff's attorneys' insistence in using that truncated definition as a reference for questions they posed to the President about the nature of his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, rather than asking specific questions concerning what had occurred. In six instances, the President answered questions by referencing Betty Currie, such as in using the cover story that Ms. Lewinsky had come to the White House to visit Ms. Currie, and on one occasion, expressly stated that his questioners should ``ask Betty.'' Indeed, Ms. Jones' attorneys later placed Ms. Currie's name on their witness list. 
   After the deposition, at 7 p.m. that evening, the President called his secretary, Betty Currie, at home. She later testified that she could not remember the President ever calling her at home so late on a Saturday. In that conversation, he asked Ms. Currie to see him in the Oval Office the following day, a Sunday. This was also an unusual occurrence. While in the Oval Office, and contrary to the admonition from the Jones case judge not to discuss his deposition testimony with anyone, the President made the following statements to Ms. Currie: (1) ``I was never really alone with Monica, right?'' (2) ``You were always there when Monica was there, right?'' (3) ``Monica came on to me, and I never touched her, right?'' (4) ``You could see and hear everything, right?'' (5) ``She wanted to have sex with me, and I could not do that.'' 
   Once the President met with Ms. Currie on January 18, Ms. Currie began to seek Ms. Lewinsky. She paged Ms. Lewinsky four times that night. Later than 11:00 p.m. that evening, the President called Ms. Currie at home to determine if she had yet reached Ms. Lewinsky. She had not. In a period of less than two hours on the morning of the 19th, Ms. Currie paged Ms. Lewinsky an additional eight times. The President then called Mr. Jordan, who called the White House three times, paged Ms. Lewinsky, and called Mr. Carter, all within twenty-four minutes of receiving the President's call. Mr. Jordan called Mr. Carter again that afternoon and learned that Mr. Carter had been replaced as Ms. Lewinsky's attorney. Mr. Jordan then called the White House six times in the next twenty-four minutes trying to relay this information. Mr. Jordan called Mr. Carter again, and then called the White House again. 
   On January 20, the White House learned that a story about the President's relationship with Ms. Lewinsky would appear in the next day's edition of The Washington Post. On January 21, the President told his chief of staff and two deputies that he did not have sexual relations with Ms. Lewinsky. He later told one of those deputies, John Podesta, that he had not had oral sex with Ms. Lewinsky. 
   Later on January 21, the President told his aide, Sidney Blumenthal, that Lewinsky had made a sexual demand on him, and that he rebuffed her. The President told Blumenthal that Lewinsky had threatened him. President Clinton also indicated that Lewinsky said that she was known among her peers as the stalker, that she hated it, and that she would say that she had an affair with the President whether it was true or not, so that she would not be known as the stalker any more. He also told Blumenthal that he felt like a victim who could not get out the truth. Blumenthal later testified that he believes the President lied to him. The President testified that he was aware at the time that he made his statements that his aides might be summoned before the grand jury. 
   The President also met with his political consultant, Dick Morris, on January 21. The President authorized that Morris conduct an overnight poll measuring potential public reaction to the affair. The poll concluded that the American people would forgive the President for adultery, but not for perjury or obstruction of justice. The President then indicated that ``we just have to win, then.'' The President's lawyers could not answer senators' questions why such a poll had been undertaken if the President had not committed any of these acts. 
   Shortly after the President met with Mr. Blumenthal, press reports began to appear that, quoting White House sources, characterized Ms. Lewinsky as a stalker, and as an ``untrustworthy climber obsessed with the President.'' Although Mr. Blumenthal in his Senate deposition denied any knowledge of how White House sources were attributed to these stories, one journalist by the time of this writing has sworn to an affidavit stating that Mr. Blumenthal made such characterizations to him. A second similar affidavit has also been filed, corroborating the first one. 
   Ultimately, Ms. Lewinsky was granted immunity from prosecution by the independent counsel. The independent counsel received from Ms. Lewinsky a dress that according to DNA testing was stained by the President's semen. 
   On August 17, 1998, the President testified before the grand jury convened by the independent counsel. In a prepared statement, the President made a number of false statements. He stated that he engaged in inappropriate conduct with Ms. Lewinsky in 1996 and 1997, whereas the conduct actually began in 1995, when she was an intern. Based on Ms. Lewinsky's testimony and the dress, he appears to have testified untruthfully about whether he engaged in sexual relations even as that term had been defined at his deposition in the Jones case. And he also testified that he was not paying attention to his attorney when the attorney described the affidavit; that his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky had originally begun as a ``friendship;'' that he made the statements to Ms. Currie after his deposition in an effort to refresh his recollection; and that he told his aides statements that were true about his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. Nonetheless, when testifying before the grand jury, the President no longer made a number of the assertions that he had made in the deposition, including denying that he was ever alone with Ms. Lewinsky. With respect to his deposition testimony, the President told the grand jury that his ``goal in this deposition was to be truthful, but not particularly helpful ..... I was determined to walk through the mine field of this deposition without violating the law, and I believe I did.'' 
   The Independent Counsel filed a report with the House of Representatives that referred allegations of possible impeachable offenses. The House of Representatives voted to pass two articles of impeachment against President Clinton, for perjury before the grand jury and for obstruction of justice. Two other articles of impeachment, which had been based on perjury in his deposition in the Jones case and misstatements to the House in response to questions propounded to the President by the House of Representatives, failed to pass the House. 
   ``HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS'' 
   The most fundamental question, against which the President's actions must be measured, is ``what constitutes an impeachable offense?'' The Constitution makes impeachable ``treason, bribery and other high crimes or misdemeanors.'' The Constitution also says that upon conviction in the Senate the President ``shall be removed.'' Therefore, the questions becomes, in effect, ``what actions constitute grounds for removal?'' 
   It should be noted at the outset that what we have in effect is a ``mandatory sentence'' wherein if there is a finding of guilt then one particular sentence must be imposed--in this case removal from office. However, unlike judges in a criminal case, the Senate may take into consideration the ``punishment'' in determining guilt. Some have contended that the President may be guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors, but his actions may not be sufficient for removal. I believe the better analysis is that the Senate may conclude that the President's conduct is not sufficient for removal and that that determination, by definition, means that the President is not guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors. I believe that this analysis is important in  understanding the scope of our discretion and helps us get away from the notion that there is an objective standard for high crimes and misdemeanors if we could only find it. Historical analysis covering over six hundred years reveals that there is no ``secret list'' of high crimes and misdemeanors, but rather our forefathers perpetuated a framework that allows for a certain amount of subjectivity which may encompass changing times and differing circumstances. 
   Such a conclusion emerges from an examination of English law, original state Constitutions, our federal Constitutional Convention, the ratification debates, American impeachment precedents and scholarly commentary. 
   The phrase ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' can be traced back to the thirteen hundreds in England. It was clear from the outset that the phrase covered serious misconduct in office whether or not the conduct constituted a crime. Commentators say that the English impeachment tradition covered political crimes against the state and injuries to the state. Beyond that, it is difficult to glean covered conduct from the English tradition. 
   Apparently there was only one discussion during the Constitutional Convention that dealt with the phrase high crimes and misdemeanors and that occurred on September 8, 1787. As reported out of Committee, impeachable offenses included only ``treason and bribery.'' Mason wanted to add ``maladministration,'' which was also contained in many state constitutions. Madison was under the impression that such language would leave the President at the mercy of the Senate. Madison relented and we wound up with the phrase as we have it today. The founding fathers quite clearly rejected impeachment for Congressional disapproval of policy. Impeachable offenses were ``political'' offenses and, as under English law, not necessarily criminal. Other guidance that can be derived from the Convention is the fact that the founders were acutely aware of their rejection of bills of attainder as existed in the English system and, therefore, they thought that impeachable offenses should be something that any reasonable man could anticipate. He should not be punished for some crime made up after the fact. Also, there was to be a requirement for ``substantiality.'' This mechanism was not designed for trivial offenses. 
   We cannot determine the precise intent of the framers because their deliberations were in secret and nothing was printed from their deliberations. They intended for the ratifiers at the state Conventions to be the more authoritative voice for interpretation of the provisions in the Constitution. It is fair to conclude that the attitude of the ratifiers was reflected to a certain extent in the Federalist papers. The most definitive comments concerning impeachment were by Hamilton in Federalist 65 wherein he stated:  
   The subjects of [impeachment] are those offenses which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in other words, from the abuse or violation of some public trust. They are of a nature which may be with peculiar propriety denominated political, as they relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself.  
   The ratifiers at the North Carolina convention spoke in terms of serious injuries to the Federal government. James Iredell, later to become an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court, stated that impeachment was ``calculated to bring [great offenders] to punishment for crimes which it is not easy to describe but which everyone must be convinced as a high crime and misdemeanor against governments ..... the occasion for its exercise will arise from acts of great injury to the community.'' He gave as an example of an impeachable offense the giving of false information to the Senate. Impeachment was not for ``want of judgment'' but rather to hold him responsible for ``willfully abusing his trust.'' Iredell also called attention to the complexity if not 
   impossibility of defining the scope of impeachable offenses with any more precision than the above. And the ratifiers at the Virginia Convention clearly agreed that a President could be impeached for non-indictable offense. 
   There was continued discussion and debate after ratification concerning the impeachment process. James Madison contended that the wanton removal of meritorious officers would subject a President to impeachment and removal from office. Forty years later, Justice Story, in his Commentaries insisted that ``not every offence'' is a high crime and misdemeanor, that ``many offences, purely political ..... have been held to be within the reach of parliamentary impeachments, not one of which is in the slightest manner alluded to in our statute book,'' that ``the only safe guide'' in determining ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' ``must be the common law,'' and left open the possibility that actions a civil officer took that were unconnected to his office might be properly the subject of impeachment. 
   Therefore, it seems that despite the framers' and ratifiers' incomplete discussion, our inability to put our hands on documentation reflecting some of their thoughts, and the fact that perhaps they simply did not think of some of the problems that might arise in the future, we see a certain framework develop--certain perimeters within which our decision should be made. 
   The Senate's own precedents do not change this evaluation because they are not terribly instructive either. In impeachment cases, the Senate has convicted on seven occasions, acquitted on five, dismissed two cases on jurisdictional grounds and one case was withdrawn because of resignation. An acquittal serves very little value as precedent beyond the facts of the case since an acquittal can be based on any number of grounds (jurisdictional, failure to prove the factual allegations, offenses not rising to the level of impeachable conduct, etc.) and the motivation for the vote is not reflected when the verdict is rendered ``not guilty.'' There is little more help derived from convictions, in terms of precedential value. There has only been one impeachment trial for a President, that of Andrew Johnson, and that, of course, resulted in an acquittal. A large majority of the remainder of the cases have been those of federal judges. 
   The question has arisen whether judicial impeachments are to be considered by the same standards as presidential impeachments. It seems to me that certainly the application of the standard of ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' for a president must differ from that of a judge. Removing the President removes the elected head of the nation. Removing a single judge does not carry the same implications for the country. And while a President should act according to the highest standards of probity, it is quite easy to imagine circumstances that would warrant judicial impeachment that would not justify presidential impeachment, such as making official decisions based purely on political considerations. It is also possible that certain crimes would be impeachable if a judge committed them, because of the specific nature of the judicial office in our system of government, but would not be impeachable for a President. 
   It has been argued that the standard should be different for presidents than judges because the former serves for a fixed term and the latter serve ``during good behavior.'' I do not share that view. The standard itself is the same for each category: treason, bribery, and other high crimes and misdemeanors. But the difference in tenure is relevant in a way. Because impeachment is not punishment and is political, the Framers vested the process in the legislative branch. Prosecution for crimes was lodged in the judiciary. Thus, a President, who cannot be prosecuted while in office, can be impeached and removed from office before he faces criminal prosecution. While a judge can also be impeached and removed before being convicted of a crime, it is also the case that criminal punishment can be, and has been, imposed on sitting judges. But since courts were expressly not given the power to remove civil officers, federal judges who have been criminally convicted and have refused to resign have continued to draw their salary ``during good behavior,'' i.e., until they were impeached. That is the only significance with respect to impeachment of judges and of presidents based on their differing terms of service. 
   Scholars have looked to the purposes to be served by the impeachment process as well as history in making their own analysis as to the meaning ``high crimes and misdemeanors.'' For Charles Black they would include offenses (1) which are extremely serious,  (2) which in some way corrupt or subvert the political and governmental process, and (3) which are plainly wrong in themselves to a person of honor or to a good citizen regardless of words on the statute books. 
   Also qualifying according to Professor Black would be ``serious offense against the nation or its governmental or political processes.'' Furthermore, he would include purely personal actions that would make a President unviable as a national leader. Murder, of course, would be the prime example here. He would also include a totally different category of offenses which seriously threaten the order of political society as to make dangerous the continuation in power of the President. Finally, he would include actions that would ``undermine government and confidence in government'' such as serious tax fraud. 
   Professor Michael J. Gerhardt on the issue of purely personal conduct of the President states: ``Even if such a crime were unrelated to the President's Constitutional duties, his criminal act considerably cheapens the Presidency, destroys his credibility with the other branches (and other nations, for that matter), and shows such lack of respect for human life and disdain for the law (which he has sworn to enforce faithfully) that Congress could reasonably conclude that he had seriously breached his trust and no longer deserves to hold office.'' Again, murder was the easy example. 
   However, he contends further that an official may be impeached for conduct in office that does not relate to his or her former responsibilities if an office holder violates his public trust and loses the confidence of the people. Then he must forfeit the privilege of holding at least his or her present office. ``In this context, conduct that may plainly be unrelated to the responsibilities of a particular office may still relate to an official's capacity to fulfill the functions of that office and to hold the people's trust.'' He gives the example of income tax fraud. 
   Gerhardt points out that not all statutory crimes demonstrate unfitness for office, but that on the other hand, there are some indictable offenses for which certain high level government officials may be impeached. Among them are offenses which ``demonstrate serious lack of judgment or disdain for the law and the commission lowers respect for the office.'' In other words, there are certain statutory crimes, that, if committed by public officials, reflect, in Congress' estimation such lapses of judgment, breaches of the public trust and disregard for the public welfare, the law, and the integrity or reputation of the office held, that the occupant may be impeached. 
   What I derive from this, is that there is no ``holy grail'' of impeachable offenses. The framers provided the Senate with a framework within which to operate and history provides us with a map, but not a destination. Our conclusions must depend upon the particular circumstances of the case, the nature of the act or acts involved, and their effects on society or integral parts of our political structure. 
   Today we are faced with an unprecedented situation. The President engaged in inappropriate personal conduct. It had nothing to do with his official duties, but it did involve a federal employee under his supervision, government time and government facilities. In an attempt to conceal and cover up that activity, he lied, misled and helped conceal evidence both physical and testimonial in a court proceeding. In doing so he elicited the help of other government employees. Therefore, the subject matter was essentially private, but the forum, a United States court, became public. One side says that he ``only lied about sex,'' and it had nothing to do with his official duties, therefore, it ``clearly does not rise to the level of an impeachable offense.'' The other side says that any perjury and any obstruction of justice ``clearly does rise to the level of an impeachable offense.'' I do not think that either position is consistent with history or proper analysis. 
   For example, I agree with Professor Black that not every imaginable act that might technically constitute obstruction of justice would necessarily be impeachable. 
   On the other hand, opponents of conviction in the present case, have raised the bar for impeachment to unreasonable heights. Usually they concede that an impeachable offense does not have to be a crime, but often it is maintained that the abuse of power has to come from his public position such as Nixon's abuse of the CIA or FBI. Of course, this immediately runs headlong into the murder hypothetical and many other hypotheticals of serious, although totally personal, conduct as well. 
   They then make the further argument that the violation has to be ``an offense against the state.'' While I agree that an offense against the state is one of the categories of offenses that impeachment was primarily designed to cover, offenses against the state's governmental and political processes, including the court system, as well as attempts to subvert them, are also 
   impeachable. Besides, it would seem to me, that subversion or serious damage to our governmental institutions constitute offenses against the state. 
   They also point out that one of the purposes of impeachment is to protect the nation from the offender President. I agree again that this may be one of the purposes of impeachment. However, it is not the only purpose, and protection of the public is not always a requirement. If an offense has been laid bare and totally exposed, and the President is completely incapable of continuing his conduct, this lack of imminent threat to the nation does not necessarily mean that he should not and cannot be impeached. President Nixon probably would not have been forced from office if that were the only criteria. 
   Opponents of conviction also overlook the fact that we may look to the effects of the President's conduct. Actions, even private actions, that serve to undermine the government or the people's confidence in the government or the President, may also be impeachable. In other words, opponents of impeachment rightly point out some of the categories that are applicable in impeachment cases, but they set them forth as exclusive when, in fact, they are not. 
   The impeachment bar has been raised even higher most recently by respected commentators in the media. The New York Times editorial page, for example, takes a position that the President's action must ``threaten the welfare or stability of the state.'' On another occasion, they stated that the President's actions must ``show some fundamental harm to the security interest or stability of the state or some attempt to undermine the Constitution.'' The problem with this is that there is absolutely no authority to support such a contention. Such a theory relies exclusively upon the ``protect the nation'' theory of impeachment. The founders certainly did not mean that the President had to be on the verge of throwing the nation into chaos or endangering national security in order to be impeached. 
   It is extremely important that we refrain from latching onto a definition of ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' simply because it leads us inexorably to a conclusion which we may desire. Clearly, a President's offense or offenses must be serious and/or have serious consequences. Also, while they do not have to be crimes, my own opinion is that in most cases they will be crimes. They must be crimes against the state, but we cannot adopt an unreasonable restriction of that term. The President does not have to order tanks to move on the J. Edgar Hoover building. Offenses against the state can include activity which will undermine our governmental institutions. How can we say that bribing a judge to effect an outcome in a law suit involving a President's purely personal conduct constitutes an impeachable offense, but say that insinuating perjury into that same law suit to effect the same outcome is clearly not impeachable? And while it is true that the founders meant to cover ``public'' behavior, I believe they also meant to cover behavior that has a negative effect on the public if it is of sufficient gravity. Furthermore, if the President's conduct poses a threat and danger to a country, that certainly is a legitimate (though not exclusive) consideration. If that same conduct serves to undermine the President's credibility and moral authority, that could also pose a danger to the country and is similarly a legitimate consideration. And, again his conduct does not necessarily have to deal with  his office. In the Constitution, a named offense is bribery (treason, bribery or other high crimes and misdemeanors), and bribery itself does not necessarily have to do with the President's official capacity, if the President is making the bribe. 
   I believe that the founders did not intend to make our job easy. They provided no list of offenses. They refused to spare us from the difficult analysis that we must now go through. We must take into consideration the offense or offenses, the capacity in which they were committed, the effect on our public institutions, the effect on our people and our people's attitude toward the Presidency and our other institutions, whether the President's conduct was one or more isolated events, or a pattern of conduct, the period of time over which the conduct was carried out and ultimately decide whether in view of all of these circumstances, it is in the best interest of the country to remove this President. 
   The significance of a ``pattern of conduct'' is recognized by John R. Labovitz in his book Presidential Impeachment.  Labovitz concluded that focusing on whether the President has committed ``an impeachable offense'' is of limited usefulness, since few individual crimes warrant removal, such as a single act of treason or a single act of bribery. Even in the case of President Nixon, ``[i]t was necessary to combine distinct actions into a pattern or course of conduct to establish grounds for removal from office.'' As he also wrote: 
   The concept of an impeachable offense guts an impeachment case of the very factors--repetition, pattern, coherence--that tend to establish the requisite degree of seriousness warranting the removal of a president from office. Just as a recidivist deserves a more stringent sentence than a first offender, so presumably a repeated offender is more likely to deserve removal from an office of public trust, and especially the highest trust in the land...... [I]t is necessary to take a less divided view of the charges. Because the remedy is not additive, the offenses must be considered cumulatively in deciding whether or not it should be imposed. The House must decide whether or not to prosecute an impeachment on the basis of the charges taken as a whole. And, unless the Senate is to take the determination of the House without question, it too must judge the combined seriousness of the wrongdoing that is proved. 
   I believe that this statement is very relevant to the obstruction of justice charge, which I will discuss later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I rise to support the Mandates Information Act of 1999. I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this legislation, which will make Congress more accountable for the laws it passes. I want to applaud my good friend from Michigan, SPENCE ABRAHAM, for his hard work and leadership on this effort. He has always championed greater accountability and efficiency in our Government. 
   This legislation is based on a simple premise--that Congress should think carefully and be accountable for passing mandates that impose significant costs on people and limit their freedom. In 1995, we passed the Unfunded Mandates Act to make Congress think twice before imposing new unfunded mandates on state and local government. But Congress also should be concerned about the private sector, especially consumers, workers and small businesses. 
   This legislation builds on the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act in two ways. First, it will provide Congress with more complete information about the costs of proposed Congressional mandates on the private sector. The Congressional Budget Office would prepare a ``Consumer, Worker, and Small Business Impact Statement'' for new private sector mandates in bills reported out of Committee. The Statement would analyze the impacts of Congressional mandates on: (1) consumer prices and the supply of goods and services in the market; (2) worker wages, benefits, and employment opportunities; and (3) the hiring practices, expansion, and profitability of businesses with 100 or fewer employees. 
   Second, to ensure that Congress pays attention to the information, this legislation would establish a point of order, waivable by a simple majority, against legislation containing direct private sector unfunded mandates over the $100 million threshold established by the Unfunded Mandates Act. This bill does not prohibit legislative mandates; it simply requires Congress to think carefully before deciding whether or not to impose them. 
   Mr. President, I believe that the public has a right to open, accountable, and efficient government. If Congress or the President wants to take credit for the benefits of a new program, we also should answer for its costs. We can't shrug off our responsibilities just because the economy is good now and we can point to budget surpluses. There has been a large growth in regulatory mandates that simply are not accounted for in budget figures. Federal regulation costs about $700 billion per year by some estimates. That is about 40 percent of the size of the entire Federal budget. And regulation begins when Congress passes legislation that delegates its lawmaking authority to the Federal agencies. 
   The truth is that there is no free lunch. While we can see the costs of tax-and-spend programs in the taxes we pay, the costs of regulatory mandates are just as real. We all pay for regulatory mandates through hidden taxes in the form of higher prices, lower productivity and wages, and diminished economic growth and job opportunities. 
   In particular, the costs of private sector mandates can hit hard on consumers, workers and small businesses. Consumers pay for mandates through higher prices for goods and services. Workers pay through lower wages. And small businesses pay through lower profitability and growth, which in turn means less job opportunities for workers. A 1995 Small Business Administration study found that an average business with less than 20 employees spends  about $5,500 per employee to comply with Federal regulations, while large firms with over 500 employees spend about $3,000 per employee. While regulatory mandates affect everyone, small businesses have a particularly tough time shouldering them. 
   I have always said that agencies need to regulate smarter. But before we even reach that step, Congress needs to legislate smarter. Last year, this legislation passed the House, and in the Senate we reported it out of the Governmental Affairs Committee. On Wednesday, the House passed this legislation again by an overwhelming vote. It is my hope that we can enact it into law this year. The Mandates Information Act will help place responsibility for costly laws at their source--Congress. It's long overdue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, today I am introducing the ``Regulatory Right-to-Know Act of 1999.'' I am pleased that Senator BREAUX and Majority Leader LOTT have joined me in this effort. Our goals are to promote the public's right to know about the benefits and costs of regulatory programs; to increase the accountability of government to the people it serves; and ultimately, to improve the quality of our regulatory programs. This legislation will help us assess what benefits our regulatory programs are delivering, at what cost, and help us understand what we need to do to improve them. 
   By any measure, the burdens of Federal regulation are enormous. By some estimates, Federal regulation costs about $700 billion per year, or $7,000 for the average American household. I hear concerns about unnecessary regulatory burdens and red tape from people all across the country and from all walks of life--small business owners, governors and local officials, farmers, corporate leaders, government reformers, school board members and parents. 
   There is strong public support for sensible regulations that can help ensure cleaner water, quality products, safer workplaces, reliable economic markets, and the like. But there is substantial evidence that the current regulatory system is missing important opportunities to deliver greater benefits at less cost. The depth of this problem is not appreciated fully because the costs of regulation are not as apparent as other costs of government, such as taxes, and the benefits of regulation often are diffuse. The bottom line is that the American people deserve better results from the vast resources and time spent on regulation. We've got to be smarter. 
   We often spend a lot of time debating on-budget programs, but we are just breaking ground on creating a system to scrutinize Federal regulation. This legislation does not change any regulatory standards; it simply will provide better information to help us answer some important questions: How much do regulatory programs cost each year? Are we spending the right amount, particularly compared to on-budget spending and private initiatives? Are we setting sensible priorities among different regulatory programs? As the Office of Management and Budget stated in its first ``Report to Congress on the Costs and Benefits of Federal Regulations'':  
   [R]egulations (like other instruments of government policy) have enormous potential for both good and harm....... The only way we know how to distinguish between the regulations that do good and those that cause harm is through careful assessment and evaluation of their benefits and costs. Such analysis can also often be used to redesign harmful regulations so they produce more good than harm and redesign good regulations so they produce even more net benefits.  
   There is broad support for making our government more open, efficient, and accountable. This legislation continues the efforts of my precedessors. Regulatory accounting was a part of a regulatory reform bill that unanimously passed out of the Governmental Affairs Committee in 1995 when BILL ROTH was our chairman. In 1996, when TED STEVENS became our chairman, he passed a one-time regulatory accounting amendment on the Omnibus Appropriations Act. I supported Senator STEVENS' effort when it passed again in 1997, and I sponsored a similar measure last year, with the support of Senators LOTT, BREAUX, ROBB and SHELBY. There also is a broad bipartisan coalition in the House that supports regulatory accounting. 
   This legislation will continue the requirement that OMB report to Congress on the costs and benefits of regulatory programs, which began with the Stevens amendment. This legislation also adds to previous initiatives in several respects. First, it will finally make regulatory accounting a permanent statutory requirement. Regulatory accounting will become a regular exercise to help ensure that regulatory programs are cost-effective, sensible, and fair. Second, this legislation will require OMB to provide a more complete picture of the regulatory system, including the incremental costs and benefits of particular programs and regulations, as well as an analysis of regulatory impacts on small business, governments, the private sector, wages and economic growth. OMB also will look back at the annual regulatory costs and benefits for the preceding 4 fiscal years, building on information generated under the Stevens amendment. Finally, this legislation will help ensure that OMB provides better information as time goes on. Requirements for OMB guidelines and independent peer review should improve future regulatory accounting reports. 
   Government has an obligation to think carefully and be accountable for requirements that impose costs on people and limit their freedom. We should pull together to contribute to the success of responsible government programs the public values, while enhancing the economic security and well-being of our families and communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the outstanding accomplishment of the University of Tennessee Volunteers in capturing the national collegiate football championship. And I ask my colleagues to join me in formally congratulating the Tennessee Vols. 
   On January 4th, I joined fellow Tennesseans across the country in watching with pride as the University of Tennessee Volunteers defeated Florida State Seminoles (23-16) and were crowned national champions for the first time since 1951. I should also point out that this is the second national championship that has come to the Tennessee Campus during this past year. The Lady Vols won the collegiate women's basketball crown and today stand at the top of the A.P. poll for the 1998-99 season with 40 of 41 first place votes. 
   Tennessee has the fourth-winningest program in major college football this decade and has won back-to-back Southeastern Conference (SEC) championships. This year's Fiesta Bowl marked their tenth consecutive bowl appearance. The Vols finished 13 and 0 and ranked number one in the nation after winning the Bowl Championship Series title game. 
   Mr. President, many of my colleagues had their own home-state favorites and I congratulate them on their seasons as well. But Mr. President back home in Tennessee, we are very, very proud of the Vols. We're proud of coach Phillip Fulmer and his staff. We're proud of the scholar-athletes. We're proud of the parents and the friends and the faculty who support them and out-numbered Florida State fans at the Fiesta Bowl by more than three to one. 
   This is just about as flawless a season of athletic performance as you're ever going to see, and we're fortunate in Tennessee to have this tremendous program and these gifted, talented young people. This is a team which started the year with a new quarterback and then lost its top running back four games into the season. They came together and it seemed that each game produced a different hero and somebody was always there to make a big play at a crucial moment. 
   Five different Vols earned SEC Player of the Week honors this season. Quarterback Tee Martin was named Offensive Player of the Week after completing an NCAA record 23-of-24 passes for 315 yards against South Carolina and setting a single-game record for completion percentage at 95.8. Receiver Peerless Price snagged Offensive Player of the Week when he caught a pass for a career-high 181 yards and one score in a win over Mississippi State. 
   And on defense, linebacker Al Wilson broke records by forcing three fumbles against Florida. Defensive end Shaun Ellis returned an interception 90 yards for a touchdown against Auburn, and defensive back Deon Grant stole the spotlight with a key interception in a game against Georgia. All three were named SEC Defensive Player of the Week for their individual achievements. 
   Mr. President, I would especially like to acknowledge the tremendous coaching job of Phillip Fulmer, who played offensive guard for Tennessee from 1969 to 1971, and who has led the team for seven winning seasons. Coach Fulmer  has the highest winning percentage of any Tennessee coach, and is the winningest active coach in the country. 
   So today, I congratulate them. With that kind of coaching, talent and an ability to work powerfully as a team, it's not hard to see why the Tennessee Vols have come so far this season. 
   Mr. President, I know many of my colleagues have experienced this kind of excitement and pride with teams from their own states. And I know they appreciate just how proud we are in Tennessee to get bragging rights for this season. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-thompson-tn-1-19990106</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. THOMPSON. Mr. President, the Federal Vacancies Reform Act was passed as part of the omnibus appropriations bill. As reported by the Governmental Affairs Committee, and as confirmed in all the statements made when the bill passed the Senate, section 3347 of that statute made clear that so-called vesting and delegation statutes allowing the heads of departments to delegate duties to other officials in their departments do not constitute statutes providing for the filling of a specific vacant position that the law retains in lieu of the procedures contained in the Federal Vacancies Reform Act. The vesting and delegation statutes were cross-referenced to not fall within the statutes that subparagraph (a)(2) of the bill retained. While that was the appropriate cross-reference as the bill was reported, subsequent language changes made to clarify the issue altered the numbering of the subsections, but the earlier cross-reference was retained. As is obvious by reading the statements and the statutory language itself, the clear intent was to state that vesting and delegation statutes fall not within subsection (a)(2), which relates to recess appointments, but to subsection (a)(1), statutes that provide for the temporary filling of specific positions. We will make a technical change to the language next year, as the urgency of the legislation sent this bill directly to the President for his signature without the chance to make that technical correction. There is no question that the vesting and delegation statutes do not constitute provisions for the temporary appointment of specific officers, even without the crossreference, which was designed to be even more emphatic.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

