<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I appreciate the positive remarks that have just been made about our leadership and those who have supported them throughout these difficult 2 years, and look forward at an appropriate time to hearing the comments of the chairman of the Appropriations Committee on this legislation.    
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I do not mean to be the skunk at the picnic party, but I believe there are some realities to be faced. Those realities are that we are establishing on the last evening of the 106th Congress some standards that are going to be either positive paths towards greater cooperation in the next Congress or will be impediments to achieving success in what will be the most divided National Government in our Nation's history. 
   I am afraid what we are doing tonight will not make a positive contribution. The fact is that at 7:08 p.m. on a Friday evening, we are taking up in one enormous piece of legislation--a piece of legislation which dwarfs the New York City telephone directory in size, a piece of legislation which not one single Member of this body or the House of Representatives has ever had an opportunity to read. 
   The fact that we are about to adopt this legislation without the normal debate and opportunity to understand what is in this bill is not a positive sign because, in my judgment, the kinds of bipartisan cooperation that we will require in the future are going to be based upon respect, understanding, and a due regard for our constituents who also deserve to be served better than we are doing this evening. 
   It also, frankly, has to be based on a level of trust among Members when commitments are made, that there is a sense of a solemn obligation. This body cannot function, as no human institution can function, unless there is a fundamental level of trust and regard among its membership. This document does not reflect that trust. 
   My fundamental concern about this appropriations bill, which will expend approximately $180 billion of our taxpayers' money, is that it takes the wrong fundamental path. 
   Contrary to myth, the 21st century has not begun. The new century will actually commence at 12:01 a.m. on January 1, 2001. The first Congress of the new millennium, the 107th Congress, will convene on January 3. This historic Congress will find itself at the proverbial commencement of the century and a fork in the road. Two very different fiscal paths will lie in front of it. 
   The path we select will play a major role in shaping our country's future in the 21st century. One path maintains the fiscal discipline that has marked the latter half of this decade. It has played an integral part in creating the longest economic expansion in U.S. history. This expansion has created over 20 million jobs since 1993. It has reduced unemployment to a 30-year low of 3.9 percent in October of this year. During all of this, inflation has remained at its lowest core rate since 1965. Those are all achievements for which we can take considerable pride. 
   This first path views the projected budget surplus as a means to continue this economic success by continuing to pay down the national debt. 
   This first path also recognizes that a portion of the surplus should be used to address some of the long-time intergenerational challenges which are confronting our Nation--securing Social Security's future and modernizing Medicaid. Social Security is in fine shape today. Payroll tax revenues exceed the funds needed to pay current benefits by record amounts. 
   This positive cash-flow, however, will not last long. In just 15 years, payroll tax revenue will no longer be sufficient to pay benefits. We need to act now to strengthen the program's finances so that today's workers and tomorrow's retirees will have the security of knowing that their Social Security benefits will also be paid. 
   Medicare faces a similar long-term funding shortfall, only it begins 5 years earlier, in 2010. In addition, Medicare has one substantial deficiency. That is its focus on sickness rather than wellness. Thus, Medicare needs to be fundamentally reformed to conform with modern medicine and the desires of its beneficiaries. That will require the inclusion in Medicare of a prescription drug benefit. Virtually every preventive program currently in use has prescription drugs as a substantial component of its treatment modality. A portion of the surplus should be devoted to fixing these deficiencies in Social Security and Medicare. 
   I just described the first path. There is a second path. That alternate path veers off to a far different destination. That path focuses on short-term desires, the here and now, and foregoes fiscal discipline in favor of new spending programs and tax cuts. It views the surplus as a giant windfall to be doled out to favored constituencies as if Christmas lasted 365 days. In short, this is a path back to the past. 
   This final bill of the 106th Congress represents another step down the wrong path, the path to the past. The Senate is considering the final 2001 appropriations bill, a bill that combines the Department of Labor and HHS, the Departments of Treasury, Postal, and the legislative branch. This agreement also clears the Department of Commerce, Department of State, and Department of Justice bill for signature. 
   Discretionary spending in these combined bills totals nearly $182 billion. This bill follows the pattern established by most of the previous appropriations bills considered by the Senate. Its total spending greatly exceeds the standard established by the Senate in the budget resolution adopted in April of this year. Section 206 of the budget resolution proposed a cap on discretionary appropriation spending for the fiscal year 2001 at $600 billion. That level would have allowed discretionary spending to grow at a rate that was above inflation, a rate of approximately 3.5 percent. What do we have before the Senate at 7:15 in the evening of December 15? We have a bill which allows spending to grow by 8 percent, more than twice that tolerated under the budget resolution. 
   I admit I support many of the programs funded in this bill, but we must exercise restraint. We must establish some sense of priorities. I have spoken on the Senate floor on several occasions earlier this year to decry specific appropriations bills as they were being considered. The common complaint I have had with each of these bills has been that they have been crafted in a vacuum without a clearly defined blueprint to give Congress the full picture of the implications of its actions before it acts. It is as if a carpenter about to build a home would start to build the living room without any awareness of what the rest of the house was going to look like. 
   The budget resolution should have provided exactly such a blueprint. But it has failed to do so. A good part of the reason it has failed to do so is that it was developed without the full participation of all Members of the Senate. It was a partisan document, representing one point of view but not providing the context around which all Members of this body as reflective of the public of the United States could give their support. In addition, it was crafted with wholly unrealistic expectations of where we were headed. 
   Let me demonstrate in this chart back to the year 1997. In 1997, we passed a budget resolution that capped discretionary 
   spending at $528 billion; we actually spent $538 billion. By 1998, our commitment to fiscal discipline had grown stronger and we only exceeded the budget resolution by $2 billion. Since that year, every year, we have had substantial deviations from our budget resolution. In every year, we have spent substantially more than we had committed ourselves to do in our budget resolution. 
   To go back to that example of the carpenter and the house, it is as if the family said: we have a budget. We can afford, based on our income, to build a  $100,000 house. But they build a $125,000 house which stretches their financial capability. 
   This year we had a resolution that said we spent $600 billion; with this legislation tonight, we will spend $634 billion. We have overspent our budget by $34 billion. This chart exposes the failure of our current budget process. Each year we pass a budget resolution which establishes limits, and each year we break the resolution. 
   The fiscal year 1999 budget resolution which was supposed to be a spending limit of $533 billion had a final tally of $583 billion. In the year 2000, the limit was supposed to be $540 billion and the final tally was $587 billion. As I indicated, this year was supposed to be $600 billion and we have concluded now at $634 billion. 
   The last 3 years highlight the dangers of considering spending bills without a credible budget, one that establishes reasonable parameters and results from the participation of both parties. 
   While that is my fundamental objection to this budget and why I will request to be counted as voting no when we take the final voice vote on this matter, this legislation also includes changes to the Medicare program that will result in greater payments to providers. This bill increases payments to Medicare providers by $35 billion over the next 5 years, $85 billion over the next 10 years. My primary objection to these changes is that too much of the $35 billion for the first 5 years and $85 billion for the next decade is funneled into one aspect of the Medicare program--health maintenance organizations, HMOs. In my opinion, and more importantly, in the opinion of the experts, the HMOs do not need and cannot justify the level of additional appropriations which they are about to receive. 
   While I appreciate the modest improvements for beneficiaries which are included in this bill, the fact remains that HMOs, which enroll less than one out of six Medicare beneficiaries, will receive almost one-third of the overall funding. I am alarmed by increasing payments to HMOs because we are told by the experts that the payments are already too high. The General Accounting Office says under current law:  
   Medicare's overly generous payment rates to HMOs well exceed what Medicare would have paid had these individuals remained in the traditional fee-for-service program.  
   The General Accounting Office concluded that Medicare HMOs have never been a bargain for the taxpayers. Increasing HMO payments will not keep them from leaving the markets where they are most needed. 
   One of the several outrages in this area is the requests that were made that if we were going to provide this generous additional payment to HMOs, one-third of the money for less than one-sixth of the Medicare beneficiaries, that they would have to commit they would not, as they have done in many areas in my State and virtually every other State, pack up leaving beneficiaries without coverage. 
   Or in other areas, as I recently experienced in the city of Jacksonville, HMOs have been driving down the benefits within their plans. I found while working at a pharmacy in Jacksonville earlier this year, most of the HMOs in that city have now put a cap on the annual payments of prescription drugs, and that cap is $500. As anyone who knows about the cost of prescription drugs, a $500 annual limit, particularly for an elderly population, is a very meager benefit. If you take this overly generous additional payment, you have to make some commitments to the beneficiaries relative to your willingness to stay and serve in the communities where you are currently providing services and to maintain your service benefit level. 
   None of that is in this final bill. This is a check being written with no response, in terms of protection for beneficiaries. 
   According to the testimony from Gail Wilensky, chair of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, she states that plan withdrawals--that is, withdrawals from HMOs:  
   ..... have been disproportionately lower in counties where payment growth has been the most constrained.  
   What Ms. Wilensky is saying is that where you have constrained reimbursements to HMOs, you have less withdrawals than you do where you are, as we proposed to be in this legislation, excessively generous. 
   It comes down to priorities. Should we spend billions on HMOs or try to help frail and low-income seniors, people with disabilities and children? 
   The managed care industry and its advocates in Congress have thwarted every effort to reform the Medicare+Choice Program so that it does what it was designed to do--save money while providing reliable, effective health care services. 
   A prime example of this occurred almost a year ago in this Chamber. In 1997, under the Balanced Budget Act, we provided for two demonstration projects to provide for the outrageous idea that there be competitive bidding among HMOs, to let the marketplace--which we all laud as being the best distributor of resources--let the marketplace decide what should an HMO be paid. This happens to be the same practice which is used in the private sector in its selection of HMOs and in some of the largest public employee HMO plans. Implementation of such a process had the potential of saving taxpayers and the Medicare program millions of dollars. It could have ensured that HMOs with the best bids were awarded contracts. It would have eliminated the discrimination against rural and smaller communities vis-a-vis the large communities which now get the largest HMO reimbursement. 
   Unfortunately for the American public, last year the managed care industry convinced their friends in Congress to beat back even these two demonstration projects. In so doing, they assured that we would not have a competitive system, a system that based contracts on merit. In fact, they would not have to compete at all. In fact, there would be no basis by demonstration of what would be the potential benefits to competition. 
   This year the HMOs have launched a multimillion-dollar lobbying effort to pressure Congress to increase their payment rates, and they have been successful. The HMOs are claiming that their current rates are too low, yet these are the same HMOs that committed congressional homicide when they killed a proposal that would have allowed a more market oriented system which would have resulted in higher reimbursement rates if the market indicated that was appropriate. This is the equivalent of a man shooting his mother and father and throwing himself on the mercy of the court because he is an orphan. 
   Worse yet, the bill fails to provide adequate accountability requirements for these plans. The House bill, when it was originally passed, required that any new funds be used for beneficiary improvements. This bill, this conference bill, contains no such requirement. 
   To be honest, there are some high points in this bill, as few and far between as they might be. I was pleased to learn the bill being considered added new preventive benefits for 
   Medicare beneficiaries. 
   I strongly believe Medicare must be reformed from a system based on illness to one based on maintaining the highest standard of health. I have introduced legislation to this effect. The benefits I included were based on recommendations made by the experts in the field: the United States Preventive Services Task Force. Therefore, I was disappointed to find that this bill fails to provide Medicare coverage for hypertension screening and smoking cessation counseling, which are the highest two priorities as identified by the United States Prevention Services Task Force in its ``Guide to Clinical Preventive Services.'' 
   This bill also provides access to nutrition therapy for people with renal disease and diabetes, but leaves out the largest group of individuals for whom the Institute of Medicine recommends nutrition therapy, people with cardiovascular disease. This is the recommendation of the Institute of Medicine, a recommendation which has been politically rejected. 
   I believe strongly that additions to the Medicare program must be based on scientific evidence and medical science, not on the power of a particular lobbying group or the bias of a single Member. It appears to me that instead of taking a rational, scientific approach to prevention, the Members who constructed this Medicare add-back provision used a ``disease of the month'' philosophy, leaving those who  need help the most without relevant new Medicare services. 
   When I asked why did the authors of this bill ignore the expert recommendations, why did they provide that seniors with cardiovascular disease could not take advantage of the nutrition therapy, what was the answer? I was told that it was excluded because it was too expensive. 
   It does not take a Sherlock Holmes, or even a Dr. Watson, to understand what is happening. This bill provides $1.5 billion over 5 years for prevention services to our older citizens. It provides a whopping $11.1 billion for the HMO industry. Clearly, the money is there but the real goal is not to direct it to the greatest need. It is, rather, to herd seniors into HMOs as a means of avoiding the addition of a meaningful Medicare prescription drug benefit for our Nation's seniors. 
   Whether you believe in the broad Government subsidization of the managed care industry or in providing benefits to seniors and children, we should all agree that taxpayers' money should be spent responsibly. This legislation does not meet that test. Congress has the responsibility to make certain that the payment increases we offer are based on actual data rather than anecdotal evidence or speculation. How can we justify that over the next 10 years the managed care industry--Mr. President, I ask you and our Members to listen to this startling fact--over the next 10 years the HMO industry will walk away with almost the same amount of funding increase as hospitals, home health care centers, skilled nursing facilities, community health centers, and the beneficiaries combined. That allocation makes no sense. 
   One of the most appalling omissions of this bill is the exclusion of a provision which would have given the States the option, under another important program, Medicaid and children's health insurance coverage, to make that coverage available to legal immigrant children and pregnant women. 
   Current census data shows us that last year nearly half of 
   low-income immigrant children in America had no health coverage. Congressional Republicans and Democrats, Governors--and I am proud to say including Gov. Jeb Bush of the State of Florida, Christie Todd Whitman of New Jersey, Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts, and the Clinton administration--have been advocating for the inclusion of this commonsense provision in this balanced budget add-back bill. But some in Congress have opposed the inclusion of a provision that will provide health care coverage for indigent immigrant women and children, arguing that the welfare reform law removed legal immigrants from the health rolls. 
   There was a reason why they were removed, and that reason was money. By limiting the number of people eligible for Medicaid and children's health insurance, the Federal Government was able to save some dollars. This provision had nothing to do with the overall worthy goals of welfare reform, which were encouraging self-reliance, self-sufficiency, and discouraging single parenting. There is no evidence that legal immigrants come to the United States to secure health benefits. In fact, in the last decade immigrants have been moving from high benefit States such as California and New York to low benefit States such as North Carolina and Virginia. 
   There is also no denying that the money to cover this population of approximately 200,000 persons is available if we choose to use it. The proof is covering children and pregnant women is not only humane, it is fiscally responsible. The Medicare ``give back'' package is aimed at keeping strapped hospitals solvent. These same struggling hospitals bear the brunt of providing uncompensated emergency room care for children without health insurance whose families cannot afford to pay. Taxpayers are eventually going to wind up paying the cost of citizen children born prematurely because their legal immigrant mothers could not get prenatal care. 
   This bill is disturbing for both what it has and what it does not have. As I said, it does not have a clear blueprint towards a path of sustained fiscal responsibility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Dr. Reischauer outlines the four ingredients present in today's political environment that are likely to lead to a feeding frenzy that will lay waste to the surplus that we have until now guarded. Those ingredients are: No. 1, the need for the next President to affirm his administration's legitimacy; No. 2, even larger budget provisions; and a compliant Congress, and finally a weakening economy. 
   Why should we worry about all this? Why should we at this stage, at 7:35 on a Friday evening, suddenly become exercised about the issue of fiscal discipline? Some budget observers believe the Federal surplus may be revised upward by as much as $1 trillion when the new budget estimates are revealed. If that is the case, the unified budget surplus for the next 10 years will rise to roughly $5.5 trillion. 
   Given these larger surplus projections, one may ask why Americans should be concerned with the deterioration of budget discipline. Americans should worry because Congress is frittering away the hard-won surplus without a real plan for utilizing those surpluses, without addressing the long-term, major challenges facing Americans--Social Security, Medicare, and paying down a $5.5 trillion national debt. Americans should care because we are sleepwalking through the surplus. We are denying ourselves the chance to face major national challenges. We are leaving to our grandchildren the credit card bills that our generation has accumulated. 
   The Congressional Budget Office recently released its long-term budget outlook. The findings in that report are not encouraging, but they are not surprising. That may explain why the report garnered such little attention. 
   What were the Congressional Budget Office findings? 
   The Federal Government spending on health and retirement programs--Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security--will dominate the long-term budget outlook. Spending on major health and retirement programs will more than double, rising from 7.5 percent of gross domestic product today to 16.7 percent 40 years from now. Why? The retirement of the baby boom generation will drastically increase the number of Americans receiving retirement and health care benefits, and the cost of providing health care is growing faster than the overall economy. 
   Saving most or all of the budget surpluses that CBO projects over the next 10 years--using them to pay down the debt--would have a positive impact on these projections and substantially delay the emergence of a serious fiscal imbalance. 
   There could be no more clear delineation of the long-term problem. Equally clear is the proffered outline of the short-term steps Congress can take to begin to address this problem: Save the surplus; pay down the debt. 
   Yet despite the obvious, Congress seems content to take the easier path and to fritter away the surplus. We have an obligation not to let this happen. 
   The ugly days of deficits taught Congress some very valuable lessons. One of those lessons was the need to prioritize. We all have expectations. We all are representing our constituents to the best of our ability. We all have a sense of our national responsibility. But the tool that forced us to do what was required was the one that said that for each additional dollar of spending, a dollar of spending had to be reduced or a dollar of taxes had to be raised. That is what discipline is about. 
   The surplus has eroded that discipline. We are failing the American public by not having honest, open debate about the tradeoffs that are necessary if we create programs, build projects, or cut taxes. 
   Few Congresses in the history of this Nation have squandered their opportunities as much as the 106th. Few Congresses in the history of this Nation have had the opportunity of redemption that awaits the 107th Congress. Few Congresses will be judged more harshly for avoiding, trivializing, and ultimately failing to seize that opportunity.  
   For those reasons, I have asked that I be recorded as ``no'' on the final vote on the omnibus appropriations bill. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am pleased to yield such time as my colleague and friend from Missouri would like and to add my accommodation to the service of Senator ASHCROFT and for the remarks he has presented to the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield such time as he would use to my friend and colleague from North Dakota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, my primary purpose this morning is to make some remarks relative to my retiring colleague, CONNIE MACK. But while he is still here, I would like to also express my admiration for Senator ASHCROFT. 
   Senator DORGAN talked about some of the times they worked together. Those are always rewarding, and they help build relationships. I have had some of those times with Senator ASHCROFT. I have also had some times when we disagreed--such as on the same issue that Senator DORGAN referred to as the wisdom of our policy towards Cuba. In those times of disagreement, you also learn something about the character of the person. I found Senator ASHCROFT to be a person who listens to what the other side thinks is the proper course. He wouldn't necessarily agree with it, but he would take it into account and would try to use that as the basis of finding a broader common ground. 
   Those are important qualities which I think our colleague, CONNIE MACK, also represents and which I will discuss in a few moments. But I wish to extend my best wishes to Senator ASHCROFT who I did not have the opportunity to serve with as a Governor, but I admire his service to the State of Missouri and to America in many ways. I wish him well for a happy, rewarding future.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the Constitution of the United States provides that each State, regardless of other circumstances, will have two Members in the Senate. It says nothing about how those two Senators will get along. Sometimes they don't. 
   I think we had a good demonstration a few moments ago with the very heartfelt comments of Senator BOND to his colleague, Senator ASHCROFT. They are two Senators who have a very close, constructive relationship for the people of their State. 
   It is my pleasure and my honor to be able to say the same relationship has existed for the last 12 years between myself and Senator CONNIE MACK. I am proud to call CONNIE a friend, and I am proud to have served with him as a colleague. 
   There are a number of reasons that may have led to this good relationship--one of which is that we have a great deal in common. 
   We both grew up in a Florida which was undergoing massive change. When Senator MACK and I were born in the late 1930s, the State of Florida had a population of about 1.5 million. As we start the 21st century, Florida has a population of over 15 million. That demographic change has brought a floodtide of other economic, cultural, social, and political changes to our State. They have affected both Senator MACK and myself as we have seen and participated in those changes. 
   We went to the same college. We are both graduates of the University of Florida, and we share a deep, abiding interest in that institution. It is my hope that there will be a very appropriate tribute to Senator MACK, and that there will be an institute at our alma mater which will symbolize and continue his deep commitment to the work of science and health. 
   Our personal lives have also overlapped. We both had the good fortune of marrying substantially above ourselves. Adele, Priscilla, CONNIE, and myself have grown to be not only neighbors living across the street on Capitol Hill but also very close personal friends. 
   We are about the same age. We have now been blessed with a growing number of what is one of life's greatest gifts--grandchildren. I believe if you ask either of us what our favorite title is, it would probably be the title of grandfather. 
   But we have also had some differences. Lest we try to ignore the big white elephant in the living room of relationships between myself and CONNIE; indeed CONNIE is a Republican. He is very proud and loyal to his party. In fact, recently CONNIE told me a story which indicates the risk he was willing to take in support of his party. At the early age of seven in what was clearly a foreshadowing of what was to come, young CONNIE MACK was invited to the Democratic National Convention which was being held in Philadelphia. 
   He was not just being invited; he was being invited by his step grandfather, a Democratic Senator from Texas, Tom Connally, one of the most prestigious Members of this body, particularly in the period of World War II. 
   While attending this Democratic luncheon at the national convention, young 7-year-old CONNIE stood up and began yelling ``I'm a Republican; I'm a Republican.'' That behavior, needless to say, earned him the wrath of his step grandfather who threatened to call the police if the display was not terminated. 
   Now, despite this highly partisan launch to CONNIE's political career, Senator MACK and I have been working together in the closest manner for what is best for Florida and for the Nation. 
   Just a few of the items on which we both take considerable pride, in our joint efforts we have battled against offshore drilling in Florida. We battled for a highway funding formula that takes into account States with rapidly growing populations. As a team, we worked to help rebuild Dade County after the devastation of Hurricane Andrew in 1992. 
   We are particularly proud of our success in filling Federal judicial vacancies, which is a direct result of cooperation of working together to put quality judges on the Federal bench, not judges of a particular political party. We interviewed applicants together. We made joint recommendations to the Judiciary Committee. We cointroduced the nominees to the committee. And we applauded, together, when they were confirmed on the Senate floor. I am very pleased in the last 4 years the Senate has confirmed 15 Federal judges from Florida. 
   Our close cooperation isn't limited to just the two of us. Our staffs have worked closely together on issues of mutual importance. And most recently, in fact, the last act of the Congress before it recessed for the election period, we helped participate in legislation that will forever cement Senator MACK's legacy, the restoration of America's Everglades. 
   CONNIE should be justifiably proud of each one of these and many other accomplishments. But I suggest he would be most proud of the fact that he worked hard at, and made it look easy, bipartisanship. CONNIE is a consummate gentleman, a man of unwavering civility in a body that often yearns for more of that quality. This is no small matter. 
   In today's political world, we shrug off a notion of being polite, as if it is a relic from a world that no longer exists. But being polite is far more than knowing your table manners. Civility, collegiality, and respect are the building blocks of political bipartisanship. And bipartisanship, in turn, is the foundation of constructive legislation. 
   When funding for the National Institutes of Health advances, many Members on both sides of the aisle will be able to claim a small measure of credit, but none more so than Senator MACK. No Member of this body has worked harder to build the coalitions based on understanding of the importance of the issue and the opportunity which we had as a nation to roll back the barriers of disease than Senator MACK. 
   In the future, when science beats cancer, we will look back and thank Senator MACK who worked with many others, particularly Senator ROCKEFELLER, to allow Medicare payments for clinical cancer trials. These are major achievements and they required the support and hard work of both parties. 
   It is no secret that this Congress has had few such serious legislative accomplishments. How can we enact any innovative 
   legislation when we can't even agree on the future bills such as the remaining appropriations bills that we must pass to keep our Government running? We are now 10 weeks beyond the beginning of the fiscal year and still have much necessary work to be done. Certainly there is plenty of blame to go around for this overly long session, and it is hardly a surprise that the American people are tuning out while we battle inside the beltway over issues that seem to affect no one other than ourselves. 
   Senator MACK has always said it doesn't have to be that way. And he has lived up to that creed. He was a founding member of the Centrist Coalition when it came together in 1997 to stop the hemorrhaging of annual fiscal deficits. 
   One of the other areas in which he should justifiably take great pride is his contribution to bringing America from an era of accumulated national debt to one in which we are starting to pay down the debt. To a lesser degree, we will be asking CONNIE's grandchildren to be paying our credit card bills. 
   Maybe we have heard too many times that nice guys finish last. I submit Senator MACK proves that adage to be dead wrong. Nice guys, in fact, get results. Those who can't get along with their colleagues get gridlock. And the American public pays for their posturing. 
   There is another danger in the culture of swagger that has too often characterized this Congress. That danger is arrogance. Somehow, many Members have convinced ourselves that the reason we can't reach an accommodation is not that we haven't really tried and not because we are playing politics; instead, the problem is simply that we are completely, totally, right, and the other side is wholly and utterly wrong. 
   Now, clearly that attitude is not conducive to getting much done on a bipartisan basis. The easy excuse for arrogance is that we were elected for our opinion and to change them would be a betrayal to our constituents. But Senator MACK has found a better way, a  way that I describe as nonarrogant self-confidence. That is not an oxymoron despite how it may occasionally appear when this room is filled with enough hot air to melt the polar ice cap. Nonarrogant self-confidence is, in fact, a foundation for public service. Nonarrogant self-confidence is the product of sustained and diverse life experiences prior to and during a political career. It is the ability to look beyond one's world, to reach out to people of different beliefs, different values, different backgrounds. It is not a person who wakes up every morning and puts his proverbial finger in the wind to see which way it is blowing and decides what his position will be that day. It is the quality of having the strength to hold well-grounded opinions and values, and yet to be open and persuadable in the face of new information and logical arguments. Nonarrogant self-confidence is the ability to be a leader in your party, but not necessarily a follower of the party line. 
   This is how CONNIE MACK has worked throughout his tenure in the Congress, and it is a model to which we should all aspire. It could be that confidence convinced CONNIE MACK of the importance of playing by the rules which we have so carelessly shunted aside in this session of the Congress. CONNIE is a leader of his party, a key member of the Banking and Finance Committees, and has served as chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. In all of these positions, he has had a respect for the process of senatorial decisionmaking. He has been confident enough to let what he believes is right to be in full view of the American people. 
   Now, few would argue that the process we have is cumbersome and, frankly, often dull. We rarely hear of someone setting up a VCR or rushing home after work to catch our latest pontifications on C-SPAN. But the seriousness of this process has added purpose. Time and public debate are the key ingredients that go into solid, sustainable public policy. Legislating behind closed doors is breaking our promise to the American public, the promise that if they, the American people, made the effort, their voice would be heard and would influence public policy on Capitol Hill. The rules of this body rely on keeping promises in an informal way as well as formally. 
   We must all be able to trust that our colleagues will do as they say and vote as they claim to do. CONNIE MACK is a man of his word. He keeps his promise to his colleagues. He keeps his promise to the people of Florida. 
   CONNIE's strength of character, his respect for this institution, and his ability to reach across party lines became apparent to me early in our time together in the Senate. Our service in the Senate overlapped with his last term in the House in 1987 and 1988. I got to know CONNIE when he came to the Senate after the 1988 election, when he won the seat that had previously been vacated by Senator, later Governor, Lawton Chiles. When the campaign was over, we vowed to work together. This has been an easy commitment to fulfill because CONNIE MACK is a fine person, as he is a fine representative of his State. 
   He is blessed with a sense of humor. He understands that the business we conduct is serious, but he does not take himself too seriously. He is hard working, an always reliable coworker. I have walked out of meetings with pages of notes and reams of paper. CONNIE generally writes down little. But when we divide assignments, without fail he completes his homework, generally before I do. He not only remembers the names of various members of my staff, he recollects the schools they went to and the football teams they support. 
   Senator MACK is devoted to his family. In fact, I have said that CONNIE and Priscilla Mack are the living embodiment of family values. Adele and I have been honored to call the Macks friends now for well over a decade. We have compared notes on our children and grandchildren. We have watched our families grow and grow up. 
   For his legislative and personal qualities, Senator MACK will be sorely missed. I call on my colleagues, colleagues from both sides of the aisle, to join me in tribute to our friend Senator CONNIE MACK, his wife Priscilla, and the Mack family. 
   CONNIE, while they call what you are doing retirement, I prefer to think it is more like you are being traded to another team, a practice in which your grandfather participated on a regular basis, or maybe playing another position. I have no doubt you will continue to work hard for the people of Florida and America. We will all be a better and especially a healthier nation because of your commitment and Priscilla's commitment. May your next step bring you as much personal and professional satisfaction as your days in the Senate have brought to all of us. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleague from Florida to clarify one section of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. Section 2(h)(3)(C)(ii) includes language from the House clarifying the applicability of programmatic regulations.  One of the most important elements of the formula for success which brings us to the floor of the Senate with this conference report today is the open process used by the Corps of Engineers to develop consensus positions on a course of action. I want to clarify my colleague's views on the language in this section. Do you believe that this language will limit the public's ability to participate and comment on the development of project implementation reports, project cooperation agreements, operating manuals, and any other documents relating to the development, implementation, and management of individual features of the Plan? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, Members of the 106th Congress, thank you for this opportunity to stand before you today as a proud Member of this body. We are on the verge of passing historic, comprehensive legislation to restore America's Everglades. 
   This is a dream I have had since early childhood when I lived on the edge of the Everglades in a coral rock house. I witnessed the manipulation of the Everglades from a serene, river of grass into a funnel built for human purposes. 
   Over the decades, I joined other Floridians in finding that moment of truth--the moment when we realized that our actions were destroying this ecosystem which is the very heart of Florida. I was proud to start the ``Save Our Everglades'' program in Florida during my tenure as Governor. 
   I thank everyone who took that giant leap with me in 1983 to begin to do what appeared to be impossible--to make the Everglades look more like it had in 1900 than it did in 1983 by the year 2000. 
   We have taken several first steps. 
   In 1992 the Kissimmee River restoration project demonstrated that we can, in fact, restore portions of a damaged ecosystem. 
   In 1996 the critical projects authorization allowed us to begin on projects with an immediate benefit to the environment. That same year, we began the ``restudy'' of America's Everglades. 
   I offer my thanks again to the people of Florida who toiled endlessly to produce the consensus document, the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan which is the basis for the legislation we will pass today. 
   Names like Colonel Joe Miller, Dick Pettigrew, Stu Appelbaum, and Tom Teets and will ring in Florida's history as people who sacrificed personal gain for the future of this project, people who built consensus where none could even be visualized, and people whose expertise built the very foundation of our plan to restore the Everglades. 
   Today, we are ending one chapter and beginning another in the history of America's Everglades. 
   We are officially ending the chain of events that we began in 1948 with the authorization of the Central and Southern Florida Flood Control Project which, according to the National Parks and Conservation Association, brought the parks and preserves of the Everglades to a prominent spot on the list of the 10 most endangered in the country. 
   We are beginning the chapter of restoration. 
   After 17 years of bipartisan progress in the context of a strong Federal-State partnership, we are seeing the dream that many of us shared in 1983 become reality. 
   I want to speak for a moment about this unprecedented Federal-State partnership. I often compare this unique partnership to a marriage. 
   If both partners respect each other, and pledge to work through any challenges together, the marriage will be strong and successful. Today, we are again celebrating the strength of that marriage. 
   This legislation contains several provisions born out of the respect that sustains this marriage. 
   It offers assurances to both the Federal and State governments on the use and distribution of water in the Everglades ecosystem. 
   It requires that the State government pay half the costs of construction. 
   It requires that the Federal Government pay half of the costs of operations and maintenance. Everglades restoration can't work unless the executive branch, Congress, and State government move forward hand-in-hand. The legislation before us today accomplishes this goal. 
   With the vote we are about to take--to pass the Water Resources Development Act of 2000--we are truly making history. 
   We will be one step closer to restoring the damage done when humankind had the arrogance to second-guess nature. 
   With this project we are doing nothing less than turning back time, returning this dying place to the wild splendor of its past and in doing so, ensuring its future. 
   If we accomplish the historic goal of restoring America's Everglades then today will be one our children and grandchildren will remember. 
   They will look back on this as the day that our generation had the courage and the foresight to make a commitment to restoring one of America's richest national treasures. 
   In the words of President Lyndon B. Johnson:  
   If future generations are to remember us with gratitude rather than contempt, we must leave them more than the miracles of technology. We must leave them a glimpse of the world as it was in the beginning, not just after we got through with it.  
   Today is the day we will make the choice to leave a glimpse of America's Everglades as they were when we first found them for future generations--an undisturbed river of grass, unmatched in serenity and beauty. 
   Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. President, I rise to join Senator SMITH in supporting the conference report on S. 2796, the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. 
   This conference report authorizes projects for flood control, navigation, shore protection, environmental restoration, water supply storage, and recreation. The bill also modifies existing projects and directs the Corps to study other proposed projects. All projects in this bill have the support of a local sponsor who is willing to share the cost of the project. 
   Even a brief review of the projects demonstrates the importance of passing this conference report. 
   A number of the projects are needed to protect our shorelines, along oceans, lakes, and rivers. 
   Several of the navigation projects will ensure that our ports remain competitive in the increasingly global marketplace. 
   Furthermore, the studies authorized in the bill will help us make informed decisions about the future use and management of our water resources. 
   Let me mention two projects that are very important for my state of Montana. 
   First, the authorization for design and construction of a fish hatchery at Fort Peck. This fish hatchery will make good on a long awaited promise of the Fort Peck project; namely, more recreational and economic opportunities for the folks in eastern Montana. 
   Fort Peck Lake is one of the greatest resources in our state. It not only plays a major role in power production and water supply, but it is an increasingly important center for recreation. People from around the state--as well as from around the world--come to Fort Peak for our annual walleye tournaments. 
   The local community really puts a lot of effort into these tournaments. And they've put a lot of effort into the Fort Peck hatchery. Communities across eastern Montana have raised funds for the matching share of the project's feasibility study. 
   And the state legislature has contributed as well. It passed a special warm water fishery stamp to help provide additional financial support for the hatchery. 
   The fish hatchery will help to ensure the continued development of opportunities at Fort Peck Lake. And it will also represent a major source of jobs and economic development for this part of the state.  
   I would also like to point out the bill's provision relating to the exchange of cabin sites leased by private individuals on federal land at Fort Peck Lake. 
   The lake is surrounded by the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge. Yet, there are many private in holdings in the refuge. 
   This provision will allow the cabin leases to be exchanged for other private land within the refuge that has higher value for fish, wildlife, and recreation. By consolidating management of the refuge lands, the provision will reduce costs to the Corps associated with managing these cabin sites. It will also enhance public access to the refuge. 
   This exchange is modeled on a similar project near Helena, Montana, which Congress authorized in 1998. It represents a win-win-win for the public, the wildlife, and the cabin site owners. 
   Mr. President, let me further mention a truly landmark provision in this conference report. In addition to the usual project authorizations contained in a water resource development act, this report represents Congress with a historic opportunity. Title VI of this report contains the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan. 
   Restoration of the Everglades has been many years in the making. In the 1970s, the State of Florida became concerned that the previously authorized Central and South Florida project was doing too good a job at draining the swampy areas of the state. In fact, it was draining the life out of the Everglades. 
   Our colleague from Florida, Senator GRAHAM, who was then Governor GRAHAM, began the effort to restore the Everglades by establishing the ``Save Our Everglades'' program. And Senator GRAHAM has worked tirelessly to achieve restoration ever since. The comprehensive plan to restore this invaluable ecosystem that is contained in the conference report before us is the culmination of his work. 
   In closing, I would like to thank the chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, Senator SMITH, for his unwavering commitment to making this Water Resource Development Act a reality. Further, I would like to thank him for the personal investment he made in keeping this conference report focused on projects central to the mission of the Corps. 
   I know he was under tremendous pressure to open this report up to any number of inappropriate provisions, but he remained steadfast in his opposition and he should be commended for this. So, too, should his staff. They worked tirelessly to craft a Water Resources Development Act of which they can be proud. 
   Finally, I would like to thank Jo-Ellen Darcy and Peter Washburn of my staff for their dedication to this legislation. A tremendous amount of work goes into a Water Resources Development Act. So, I particularly acknowledge and commend the effort that Jo-Ellen and Peter devoted to making this conference report such a success. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I come on this early Friday evening with a sense of extreme disappointment, extreme disappointment that we are concluding the last Congress of the 20th century with so little commitment to provide a vision and a sense of assistance and help to Americans as they prepare for the 21st century. I would describe it as the ``lack of vision thing.'' We cannot seem to envisage the surplus as a once-in-a-century chance to tackle the most important issues for our day, issues that will affect our children and grandchildren, issues such as Social Security and Medicare, the two great programs in which the U.S. Government has a contract with its people, and how to deal with the national debt, which grew so explosively over the last 30 years, and that we now have an opportunity to substantially reduce. 
   Instead, we see the surplus as a giant windfall that allows us to dole out favors to favored constituencies, as if Halloween has already arrived. The result of this ``tunnel vision thing,'' is a bill that will absorb $320 billion of the non-Social Security surplus faster than the kids next Tuesday will be able to empty their Halloween bags. 
   As troubling as the specifics of this legislation is the process by which it found its way to the Senate floor. This legislation, which would propose substantial tax reductions and additional provider funding under the Medicare program, is a major assault against our ability to use the budget surplus in a rational way. 
   As we all remember from Abraham Lincoln's immortal Gettysburg address, ours is a Government ``of the people, by the people and for the people.'' 
   For such a government of, by, and for the people to function, it must be conducted in full view of the people. 
   As several of my colleagues have already discussed earlier today, this program of tax cuts and paybacks to additional reimbursement to Medicare providers was created by a self-appointed, elite group of Members in the proverbial smoke-filled room of old-style machine politics. The irony is that the very Republicans who snuck into the closet, locked the door behind them, and emerged with this poor excuse for a fiscal plan are the same leaders who are now encouraging George W. Bush to be elected President of the United States on a promise to be a uniter, not a divider, and a builder of coalitions and bipartisan consensus. 
   If this is what the blueprint is for bipartisanship and consensus building, I shudder to imagine the legislation that will ooze out from this closed door should Governor Bush win the Presidency and follow the counsel of those who have brought us to this sad end on this fall evening. 
   Governor Bush would do well to consider that the Republican Congress lacks the vision thing. It is always more difficult to see the big picture when you are in the dark. The legislation before us is a prime example of what happens when you try to see the big picture in the dark. 
   I will not claim that this bill is without some positive qualities, some redeeming features. Many of those features I have strongly advocated and, in a number of instances, have been a prime sponsor. But the bill has serious deficiencies. I choose this evening to focus only on two of those deficiencies: First, the high level of additional funding being given under the Medicare program to managed care providers at the expense of the beneficiaries; and, second, the failure to provide adequate incentives for small employers to offer pensions to their employees. 
   Both of these deficiencies have a common theme, and that is that we are not just proposing measures as a means of adding back or increasing the payments to Medicare providers. We are not providing tax incentives just to reward certain people with additional pension or retirement benefits. We are trying to achieve objectives. 
   In the case of Medicare, we are trying to achieve the objectives of changing the orientation of this program from one which focuses on illness, one which focuses on treating people after they have become sick enough to go into a hospital or have suffered a major accident, to one which focuses on wellness, keeping people healthy as long as possible, and which recognizes that a fundamental part of any wellness strategy is providing access to prescription drugs which are the means by which conditions are appropriately managed or reversed so that wellness can be achieved or maintained. 
   We also have as a vision to provide a balanced retirement security for older Americans, a retirement security that is based on three pillars: Social Security, employer-based pensions, and private savings. It is to achieve this goal of a balanced, secure retirement program that we should be directing our attention in terms of how we fashion tax incentives and other measures that use public incentives and funds in order to achieve that objective. 
   I am disappointed that this tax legislation, this Medicare reimbursement legislation that we have before us, fails on both of those accounts, and I will elaborate on the nature of that 
   failure. 
   First, by making health maintenance organizations the only Medicare-based means by which a prescription drug benefit can be achieved, we are, in effect, herding seniors who need prescription drug coverage into private health maintenance organizations. This bill, by any account, gives disproportionately too much money to the health maintenance organizations, organizations that do not need it and do too little to seniors and health care providers who do. We give too much money to the HMOs, too little to the beneficiaries, and too little to other health care providers. 
   While I appreciate the modest improvements for beneficiaries included in this bill, the fact remains that health maintenance organizations will receive substantially more than one-third of the overall package over the first 5 years and even more over 10 years. I am alarmed by the attempt at offering substantial increases in payments to HMOs because experts tell us that these payments are already too high. The General Accounting Office says that under current law--under current law, not the increases we are considering here--and I quote from the General Accounting Office report:  
   Medicare's overly generous payments rates to health maintenance organizations well exceed what Medicare would have paid had these individuals remained in the traditional fee-for-service program.  
   The General Accounting Office concluded that Medicare health maintenance organizations ``have never been a bargain for taxpayers.'' 
   Increasing HMO payments will not keep them from leaving the markets where they are most needed. According to the testimony from Gail Wilensky, chair of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission and a former Administrator of the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, HCFA:  
   Plan withdrawals have been disproportionately lower in counties where payment growth has been most constrained.  
   The withdrawal of HMOs from counties has actually been lower where the payment growth to HMOs has been most constrained. 
   It comes down to priorities: Should we spend billions more on HMOs or should we try to help frail and low-income beneficiaries, people with disabilities, and children? 
   The managed care industry and its advocates in Congress have thwarted every effort to reform the Medicare+Choice Program so that it does what it is designed to do: provide services while saving the Government money. 
   There is a complex formula by which Medicare+Choice plans are reimbursed. In a simplified form, it works this way. It is an arithmetic formula: 
   A calculation is done in each county in the country as to how much fee-for-service medicine is costing per Medicare beneficiary. Ninety-five percent of  that number then becomes the method by which the HMO+Choice plans are reimbursed. 
   If you happen to have a county that has a high fee-for-service medicine, for instance, because it has tertiary medical care or particularly because it has a teaching hospital, which tend to result in driving up the overall fee-for-service costs within that county because they are providing exceptional and generally exceptionally expensive services, then you have a high reimbursement level to HMOs. That is why you tend to find lots of HMOs wanting to do business in those high-cost, fee-for-service counties. 
   Conversely, if you happen to be in a county that has no hospitals or only primary care hospitals and relatively low fee-for-service costs, then you have low HMO reimbursements, 
   which frankly is a formula that makes no sense. 
   For many years, there has been an effort to find a new way to reimburse HMOs that is more market oriented as opposed to relying on the accident of whether you happen to be in a high fee-for-service county or a low fee-for-service county. 
   Several times in recent years Congress has initiated a program to do a demonstration project using some of the competitive bidding processes which are prevalent in the way in which private corporations and State and local governments determine how to reimburse their HMOs. They put their HMO contracts out for competitive bid and see what HMOs will offer in order to secure the business of a large corporation or a State or local government. I believe strongly that we should at least experiment with this approach to reimbursing HMOs through Medicare. 
   In 1997, as an example, two demonstration projects were included in the Balanced Budget Act. These were to provide information on the competitive bidding process for Medicare+Choice contracts. What happened? As soon as two cities--in this case Kansas City and Phoenix--were selected to be the sites for the demonstration projects, the HMOs and their allies in those communities led an assault against the demonstration project, and in an end-of-the-session, largely clandestine attack, those demonstration projects were terminated even before they had started. In so doing, the HMOs have been able to assure that they will not have to compete for Medicare's business based on merit and the marketplace. In fact, they would not have to compete at all. 
   This year, the HMOs have again launched a multimillion-dollar lobbying effort to pressure Congress to increase their payment rates based on this discredited 95-percent formula. The HMOs are claiming their current reimbursement rates are too low. Yet these are the same HMOs that committed congressional homicide when they killed the proposal that would have allowed a more market-oriented system, which could have resulted in higher reimbursement rates or lower reimbursement rates; at least they would have been the reimbursement rates that were set by market competition, not by an arbitrary discredited formula. 
   This action, of claiming that you need to have higher reimbursement rates after you have just killed the method by which we were going to determine what would be the means of setting those appropriate rates, is the equivalent of the child who shoots his mother and father and then claims to deserve the mercy of the court because he is an orphan. 
   The HMO industry has shot every effort to establish a rational means of reimbursement. 
   Then they come here late at night, late in the session, saying that they need to have a third or more--a third or more--of all the money that is going to be used to provide reimbursement to Medicare providers because their rates are too low. They are providing services to approximately one out of six Medicare beneficiaries. Yet they want to have a third or more of all of the money that goes for additional reimbursement. 
   I was pleased to learn that within this bill one positive thing that was being considered was additional preventative benefits for Medicare beneficiaries. This is a cause I have long advocated as part of the fundamental conversion of Medicare from a sickness system to a wellness system. 
   I strongly believe that Medicare must be reformed from a 
   system which is based on treating illness to one that is based on maintaining wellness. 
   I have introduced many bills to this effect, some of which are now the law of the land. The benefits that I have included have been based on recommendations made by experts in the field. We have used the medical expertise to determine which preventive modalities have been proven to be efficacious and cost-effective. Therefore, I was disappointed to find that this bill fails to provide Medicare coverage for those areas of prevention which have been identified by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force as being the most efficacious and cost-effective. 
   What were these areas of prevention? Hypertension screening and smoking cessation counseling. These were the highest priorities identified by the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force. But these apparently did not meet the ``political correctness'' standards of those who were writing this final bill. 
   The bill also provides one of the other priorities: Access to nutrition therapy for people with renal disease and diabetes. But it leaves out the largest group of individuals for whom the Institute of Medicine recommends nutrition therapy--people with cardiovascular disease. 
   This is the publication of the Institute of Medicine on ``The Role of Nutrition in Maintaining Health in the Nation's Elderly,'' which urges that access to nutrition therapy be made available to people with cardiovascular disease. Again, apparently they did not meet the standard of ``political correctness'' to be included in the prevention modalities that will be funded in this bill. 
   I believe strongly that additions to the Medicare program must be based on scientific evidence and medical science, not on the power of a particular lobbying group or on the bias of a single Member. 
   It appears that instead of taking a rational, scientific approach to prevention, the Members use a ``disease of the month'' philosophy, leaving those who need help the most without relevant new Medicare preventative services. 
   When I asked why the authors of this bill ignored the expert recommendations, such as providing seniors with cardiovascular disease with nutritional therapy, I was told it was excluded because it was too expensive; we could not afford to provide nutrition therapy to seniors with cardiovascular disease. 
   It does not take a Sherlock Holmes, or even a Dr. Watson, for that matter, to understand what is happening here. This bill provides $1.5 billion over 5 years for all of the prevention programs and a whopping $11.1 billion for the HMOs. But it is just too expensive to provide adequate, rational, prioritized prevention services for our elderly. 
   Clearly, the money is there. But the real goal of those who wrote this plan is to herd seniors into private HMOs as a means of avoiding the addition of a meaningful Medicare prescription drug benefit for our Nation's seniors. 
   Whether you believe in the broad Government subsidization of the managed care industry or in providing benefits to seniors and children, we should all agree that taxpayers' money should be spent responsibly. 
   Congress has the responsibility to make certain that the payment increases we offer are based on actual data rather than anecdotal evidence or speculation. 
   How then can we justify that over the next 10 years the managed care industry is set to walk away with almost the same amount of funding increases as hospitals, home health care centers, skilled nursing facilities, community health centers, and beneficiaries combined. 
   Over the next 10 years, under this plan, health maintenance organizations will receive, in additional funding, the amount that hospitals, home health care centers, skilled nursing facilities, community health centers, and beneficiaries will receive combined. 
   The most disturbing problem with this bill is that it does nothing to address our efforts to pass a Medicare prescription drug bill in the year 2000. The Republican leadership would like for you to believe that their bill will solve the problem of providing a prescription drug benefit for seniors.  
   According to a story in the October 26 Washington Post:  
   Unlike the rest of Medicare, this plan provides some prescription drug benefits; and by pumping more money into it, the GOP can defuse Democratic charges that the Republican Congress has failed to act on prescription drug benefits for seniors.  
   What we have here is the attempt to use this exorbitant amount of money, more money than is going into hospitals, home health care centers, skilled nursing facilities, community health centers, and beneficiaries combined, pumping all that money into HMOs in order to create the facade that we are providing a prescription medication benefit and therefore don't have to provide a prescription medication benefit to the rest of the Medicare beneficiaries, the five out of six Medicare beneficiaries who get their health care through the traditional fee-for-service program as opposed to an HMO. 
   The Republican leadership and George W. Bush criticize our prescription drug plan by claiming that we are forcing seniors into a Government-run HMO. By that so-called HMO, they mean Medicare, traditional Medicare, Medicare on which nearly 85 percent of the beneficiaries rely today. 
   In reality, the Republican plan to strengthen Medicare is to force seniors into private HMOs in order to get their prescription drugs. 
   Here is what seniors can count on in this plan of forcing seniors into private HMOs as the means of securing their prescription drugs. 
   First, the plan will cover less than one in six Medicare beneficiaries. Very few seniors have elected or in many cases even have the opportunity to participate in Medicare+Choice. Only 16 percent of the 39 million Medicare beneficiaries have joined a Medicare HMO plan. 
   Second, Medicare beneficiaries can look forward to plans that are here today and gone tomorrow. Nearly 1 million seniors will be abandoned by their HMOs in this year of 2000 alone. More than 87,000 of those are in my State of Florida. Seniors in 33 counties of the 67 counties in Florida either never had a Medicare+Choice plan or had one only briefly before it packed up and left town. 
   Third, seniors will have no guarantee of their prescription drug benefits. What is unlimited coverage today may be a capped benefit tomorrow. 
   Listen to these numbers. This is what the prescription drug benefit is for some of the most significant HMOs in the country operating in communities with very large Medicare beneficiary populations. 
   In Hernando County, FL, north of Tampa, there are two Medicare+Choice plans, Wellcare and United. Both offer a prescription drug benefit, the type of benefit we are hoping to expand by pumping more money through this Medicare additional reimbursement into HMOs. Both of those plans cap their benefits for prescription drugs, in the one case at $748 a year and in the other at $500 a year. There are many Medicare beneficiaries who spend more than that in 1 month. Yet that is the annual cap on prescription drugs for those two HMOs which claim they are providing effective prescription drug coverage for their beneficiaries. 
   Another example is the HIP Health Plan of Florida which offers seniors in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties a drug plan that covers up to $700 annually for brand name drugs. Seniors in the same plan in Palm Beach County, which is immediately north of Broward County, have an annual limit of $250 for brand name drugs. 
   What kind of prescription drug benefit is that? For many seniors, such as a constituent to whom I have referred frequently, Elaine Kett of Vero Beach, these annual capped 
   amounts represent less than 30 days' worth of their prescription drug needs. 
   The HMOs' tendency toward denying choice and rationing of health care will not benefit our Nation's seniors and people with disabilities. Talk about denying people choice; talk about rationing of health care; This is it. 
   Fourth, seniors can expect no guaranteed choice of a doctor. HMOs have networks of doctors that are constantly changing. If Mrs. Smith's doctor is not in her HMO network, Mrs. Smith can't see the doctor. She can't see the doctor who knows her the best. She can't see the doctor she trusts to treat her and prescribe the medications she needs. 
   Even if Mrs. Smith's doctor writes a prescription drug, her HMO may have a restrictive formulary and substitute her doctor's wisdom for theirs by filling her prescription drug with something else. Even if Mrs. Smith's doctor writes her a prescription drug, her HMO may have a restrictive formulary which will deny her the medicine that her doctor believed was medically necessary. 
   To continue looking at the facts, let's look at the materials that Humana, one of the largest Medicare+Choice providers, HMOs, in the country, provides to seniors as it explains their prescription drug benefit. 
   Here is what Humana says:  
   For medications with dispensing limits and age limits, additional information may be required for approval. These requests can only be made by your physician to be considered. Please have your physician contact the Humana clinical hotline at the number below.  
   So it is not the patient relying on the best medical advice of the doctor and then taking that medical advice in the form of a drug prescription to a pharmacist in whom they have confidence to be filled. It is the patient relying on the goodwill of the HMO to allow the best judgment of the doctor to be fulfilled. 
   Reading further in the Humana preferred drug list publication:  
   All of the above is not a complete list and is subject to change.  
   So what you think may be your relationship with your doctor and your pharmacist today may be different tomorrow, if your HMO decides it wants to make it different tomorrow. 
   If Mrs. Smith's doctor prescribes a medication that is not on Humana's formulary, she can only get it filled with prior authorization from Humana. That means upon learning that her medication is not on Humana's formulary, probably when she is standing at the pharmacist's counter trying to get her drug prescription filled, Mrs. Smith will have to call her doctor and ask her doctor to call a 1-800 number on her behalf. 
   Once the doctor gets through, Mrs. Smith's doctor will have to consult with an HMO bureaucrat and provide additional information regarding Mrs. Smith's health so the bureaucrat can determine whether Mrs. Smith is eligible to receive the medication her own doctor prescribed. After all of this, the request to have Humana cover the drug may still be denied. To add to the difficulty of having a drug prescription filled, Humana states in its materials that the list of covered drugs is subject to change. A drug that is covered for Mrs. Smith today may be excluded on her next visit to the pharmacy. 
   Fifth, there are few, often no, options to participate in Medicare+Choice in rural areas. Because of this perverse formula that relates the fee-for-service costs within that county to the amount of reimbursement that HMOs will receive, while seniors in urban centers may have access to Medicare+Choice plans, many of our seniors do not have that option. In over 20 counties in Florida and in the entire States of North Dakota, Utah, and West Virginia, there are no managed care programs for Medicare beneficiaries. 
   I wonder, do those who would advocate that this managed care approach provides meaningful prescription drug coverage for our Medicare beneficiaries think the people in North Dakota, Utah, and West Virginia do not need prescription medications? 
   All of these factors beg the question: If seniors don't have access to or don't like Medicare managed care now, because of their own experience, why would they like it better just because we are about to decide to throw an enormous amount of money at it, without any rational justification, without any sense of the priorities among Medicare health care providers? Why, just because we are about to act in an irrational way, would it suddenly make these plans better in the eyes of the ultimate beneficiary? 
   As I have said in a series of floor statements, the attack on a Medicare prescription drug benefit is, in reality, an attack on the Medicare program itself. Let me repeat that. This attack on using fee-for-service Medicare as the fundamental means by which prescription drug benefits will be delivered is but a veiled attack, an assault on the  basic principles of Medicare itself; universality, comprehensive service, affordability, those are principles that are under assault under the veil of denying prescription medication benefits through traditional Medicare. 
   The Washington Post article of October 27 entitled ``Ad Blitz Erodes Democrats' Edge on Prescription Drugs'' describes how Republicans have used ads to achieve ``some success in muddying the waters on prescription drugs.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. In the legislation we are considering today, we have found yet another smoking gun to validate our suspicions that the Republican Party--and, I am afraid, its Presidential candidate--are seeking to do as Newt Gingrich was candid enough to say publicly: Let Medicare ``wither on the vine.'' 
   I believe the cynical way in which this bill purports to provide a prescription medication benefit by pumping enormous amounts of money away from beneficiaries in more effective prevention programs, and away from institutions such as hospitals and home care centers which have demonstrated a legitimate basis to receive additional compensation, and toward the institutions which have fought against every reform and which, by the General Accounting Office report, has not made a justifiable case for additional reimbursement. We are doing this in order to create the facade that by forcing seniors into private HMOs, that would be the means by which they would receive prescription drugs. That in itself is enough of a reason to vote against this proposal. 
   Let me comment on a second reason. Just as the first, prescription drugs, is an area on which the Presiding Officer and I have worked to try to develop a bipartisan, rational means by which prescription drugs can be made available to Medicare beneficiaries, the next area is another on which I, along with many colleagues on both sides of the aisle, have worked, and that is to reform our pension laws. In my judgment, the primary objective of reforming our pension laws should be to increase the number of Americans with access to employer-based pensions. 
   At first glance, the retirement savings section of this bill looks very similar to S. 741, the Pension Coverage and Portability Act, which I introduced with my colleague from Iowa, 
   Senator GRASSLEY, which has the support of 17 of our colleagues in the Senate. In fact, there are some very attractive and useful provisions that will make existing pensions work better. To these, I give my wholehearted support. For example, the bill makes it easier for employees to take their pensions with them as they move from job to job. This is an important improvement to existing law and will help workers accumulate assets for retirement. 
   On further review, however, it becomes clear that in many ways this bill is a wolf in sheep's clothing. The principal goal of the Pension Coverage Portability Act is expanding retirement plan coverage to those Americans who currently do not have an employer-sponsored plan available to them. The measure focuses particularly on encouraging small employers to offer pension coverage. 
   Let me use some examples and statistics from my State of Florida, which I think are not unrelated to the national scene. Florida has benefited greatly from the strong economic growth in America in the last 8 years. Almost 2 million new jobs have been created in our State during that time. Of those almost 2 million jobs, more than 70 percent are in firms that employ fewer than 25 people. The vast growth in employment in my State of Florida--and, I suggest, in America--has been through small entrepreneurial firms. It is these small employers who have the greatest difficulty offering pension coverage to their employees. A recent report from the General Accounting Office highlights this fact. 
   According to the GAO report, slightly more than half--53 percent--of all employed Americans lack employer-based pension coverage. The good news is that that is 5 percentage points more than it was a decade ago. So more Americans than 10 years ago are now getting a pension through their place of employment. 
   The more troubling finding in the GAO report is that workers' chances of having access to a pension plan are strongly influenced by the size of the firm that employs them. While 53 percent of Americans, in general, lack an employer-based pension, if you happen to work for a firm that employs fewer than 25 people, 82 percent lack an employer-based pension. It is in precisely on those small firms that the Pension Coverage and Portability Act targeted its attention. Unfortunately, the bill before us today falls woefully short in encouraging those small firms to provide coverage to their workers. 
   The Pension Coverage and Portability Act contained two important provisions to assist small businesses in offering retirement plans to their employees. One of those was an income tax credit to help small businesses defray the administrative costs associated with establishing a retirement plan. Second is an income tax credit for small employers who make employer contributions into pension plans for the benefit of their employees. So there were two critical provisions in the Pension Coverage and Portability Act, both targeted at encouraging, facilitating, and making more likely that small employers would provide pensions for their employees 
   an income tax credit to help defray the initial establishment of the plan costs; and, second, an income tax credit for the employers who made contributions on behalf of their employees into their employees' pension plan. Both of these important provisions were excluded from the tax bill before us today. 
   In addition, to the pension bill that was unanimously reported by the Senate Finance Committee included both of those provisions, and another important element of retirement security encouraged personal savings. This was achieved through a separate tax credit to help low- and moderate-income families save for their retirement. 
   The bill was unanimously reported. Every Republican and every Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee supported the provisions that would have encouraged small businesses to set up pension plans for the employer to contribute to employee pension plans, and it also creates an incentive for increased savings for low- and moderate-income families. 
   The bill crafted by the Republican leadership contains none of these important proposals. 
   Finally, the bill even has the potential to actually create incentives for small businesses to drop their existing pension coverage. Approximately 18 percent of small businesses with less than 25 employees might actually be encouraged by this bill to drop that pension coverage. How can this possibly be? 
   Frequently, the employers in a small business set up pension coverage not only to benefit their employees and attempt to encourage a greater sense of commitment to employment with a small firm, but they also do it out of self-interest. As long as an employer is willing to cover his employees, he generally can set aside more funds for his own retirement through an employer-based plan than is possible to be done through an IRA, individual retirement account. 
   This bill includes a substantial increase in the maximum contribution allowable to an individual retirement account. That amount today is $2,000 a year and will be increased to $5,000 a year by the year 2003. By securing a separate IRA for the employer's spouse, effectively $10,000 can be tax sheltered for retirement. 
   By making IRAs more attractive to small employers, those small employers might decide that it is in their self-interest to discontinue the employer-based plans which they now sponsor and rely on their own and their spouse's IRA as the means of providing for their retirement security. 
   Thus, the unintended consequence of increasing IRA limits without providing incentives to encourage small businesses to provide pension coverage and then for the employers to contribute to their employees' plan may be to erode the retirement plan coverage for employees in small businesses. The percentage of those workers in small firms without coverage--82 percent already--could grow even higher.  
   As disappointed as I am in this legislation as a whole, I am not in the least bit surprised. This legislation is the work of lobbyists--not statesmen. 
   Instead of a strategic vision of what will be required in order to convert Medicare into a wellness program and what will be required to assure that the large and growing number of Americans who work for small businesses will have the benefit of a pension and retirement fund--instead of those strategic visions--this is the work of special interest tunnel vision. Instead of balancing the interests of all Americans, this bill 
   goes full tilt towards the luckiest few. 
   I suggest when legislation is drafted in the dark this is what we can expect. Behind those closed doors, the drafters seem to forget basic math. That basic math is that every dollar we spend--such as pumping excessive funds into HMOs--is $1 that we take directly out of the surplus. 
   Every dollar spent on tax cuts is one that will not be spent on saving Social Security by paying down the national debt, and will not be spent on modernizing Medicare to make it a wellness program. 
   I have used words such as ``squandering,'' ``flittering,'' and ``wasting'' before this body more often in the last 2 weeks than I would have liked. 
   I have watched any chance that this body had to create a comprehensive strategic spending plan for our future die a small and painful death. 
   I am left with the hope that President Clinton will indeed veto this bill as promised, and that a few billion dollars can be spent paying down the national debt before the next Congress gets its hands on the purse strings again. 
   I am not surprised that we are at this point. But I must admit I am a bit puzzled. 
   Is it really possible that some of my colleagues don't realize that a slice here and a snack there will eventually leave nothing but crumbs? Can it be that they truly believe we can have our surplus and eat it too? Or are they feasting on the surplus behind closed doors fully aware that they are telling the system, starve for reform, that we will be fine, and go ahead, eat cake? 
   Thank you Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Louisiana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, how much time remains under my 30 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield myself such time as is necessary.  
   For the last several weeks, I have been raising concerns about the direction of our fiscal policy. Today, we reach a historic moment. Many were here in the 1980's and 1990's when the Federal Government, through annual deficits, acquired a record national debt of almost $5.5 trillion. In 1992, we reached the peak of this when we had a 1-year deficit of in excess of $290 billion. 
   In the 1990s, we took a number of steps to try to rectify this situation and to mitigate this constant increase in the national debt. 
   A key part of that process occurred in 1997. In 1997, we set spending limits for ourselves, including spending limits on the discretionary accounts of the Federal Government such as the account that we are dealing with today. We promised ourselves and the public that for every tax dollar cut there would be $1 less spent, and vice versa. That is the way in which a family would approach having to restrain its budget in order to come into line with its income. It would buy the holiday gifts that it could afford but not necessarily the ones that everyone in the family wants because for those family budgets there are some very real caps. 
   But, for Congress, the commitment to realistic budget and fiscal responsibility was a novel, even a radical idea. We had not even thought about it that much in the preceding 20 or 30 years. Apparently, it was so radical that it was too much to ask. It is almost as if this Halloween season we have all turned into Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. On the campaign trail we put on one costume; that is, the costume of our better selves where we boast about the courage and foresight it took to balance the budget. We talk about all the good things we are going to do, whether it is saving Social Security, providing a prescription drug benefit for Medicare, cutting taxes, or adding spending in other favorable programs. Then we return to Congress and we take off our mask. We begin grabbing for what we can get, a few billion here, a few billion there, regardless of the long-term consequences. 
   We have doled out treats to line our political pockets while we are playing a trick on the American public. That trick is that we are sleepwalking through the surplus. We are about to deny ourselves and future generations one of the greatest opportunities that we have had in American political and economic history: to use this enormous period of prosperity to deal with some of those long-term issues that will affect, not just ourselves, but future generations. 
   But as we vote to set the deficit monster free, we make the promise that this is only for this year. We are not really going to let him out of the cage; we are just going to open the door a bit and let him sniff some of the desirable consequences of profligate spending. This year we tell the American public this is our chance to celebrate this American prosperity. Next year we will cut the monster down to size, put him back in his cage, and no long-term harm will have been done. But the truth is for our children and our grandchildren this could be a very scary Halloween. 
   My friends, are we really so humble as to believe that what we do today will not resonate through future years? I personally find it hard to believe that this will be just a 1-year exception to a constancy of fiscal discipline. 
   In 1997, we planned for the future because we knew that what we did with the taxpayers' dollars would have real consequences. They are having real consequences. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this story chronicles the crumbling of our wall of fiscal resolve in the face of a behemoth of appropriations bills. The bill we have before us, the foreign operations bill, carries a $14.9 billion price tag. 
   It has been stated that this bill is actually lower than the bill that we passed last year. If I am in error--and it is very difficult to respond since we have only in the last few hours gotten a copy of a multipage bill, but as I read through the bill, it is my analysis that in calculating last year's $15.5 billion expenditure, we have included an almost $2 billion item, the Wye Plantation commitments for the Middle Eastern peace, which are nonrecurring. So if you are comparing apples to apples, those things that we spent money on last year and those things we are going to spend money on this year, actually last year's comparable appropriation for foreign operations was closer to $13.5 billion. So instead of the $14.9 billion being a reduction, it actually represents approximately a 10-percent increase over the spending that we had on this same account last year, a 10-percent increase, while we are operating under the rule that we are only supposed to spend the rate of inflation, which is 3.5 percent, as an increase from 1 year's budget to the next. 
   But that is not what is the true monster in this bill. The true monster in this bill is stuck into the appropriations language, which for us on the floor is printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, since we do not have a copy of the actual bill and conference report. It is specifically stuck on page H10776, nestled in between a provision that relates to gifts to the United States for reduction of the public debt--and I am glad to know that we get some gifts to reduce the public debt--and a provision that provides debt relief for heavily indebted poor countries. It may be appropriate that this language I am about to quote is inserted in between those two provisions. 
   In section 701(a), this language appears:  
   Section 251 (c)(5) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 ..... is amended by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following: 
   ``(A) for discretionary category: $637,000,000,000 in new budget authority and $612,695,000,000 in outlays;''.  
   That might seem fairly unexciting, but let me tell you what we are preparing to do. In that Balanced Budget Act of 1997, we provided a spending limit for discretionary accounts for each of the future years. For the fiscal year 2001, the year for which we are now appropriating, the spending limit was established at $542 billion. The legislation we are about to vote upon will increase that figure from $542 billion to $637 billion, a 17.5-percent increase in the allowable expenditure in this 1 year alone. That is the scale of the monster that we are about to let out of the cage by adopting this legislation. 
   This figure will put far more than a dent in the surplus that we promised. It will put a massive hole in our budget projections. The fact is, by the time we are done, Social Security is more likely to be floundering midstream without a life vest than to be in a secure lockbox on dry land. Instead of fiscal responsibility, we are now practicing fiscal myopia. We are honing in on the magic number, a $4.6 trillion surplus over the next 10 years. However, what we are forgetting to completely level with the American people about is that that $4.6 trillion is predicated on the assumption we are only going to spend $542 billion this year. We are about to authorize a number that is almost $100 billion larger. 
   The forecasters of the Congressional Budget Office do not have a crystal ball. They can only see the future the way we look at it and the degree of confidence they place in our actions. The CBO numbers, upon which the $4.6 trillion surplus is predicated, are based on those commitments made in 1997. 
   This appropriations bill demonstrates that we are not committed to those commitments of 1997. The surplus projections assume that discretionary spending increases each year would be restrained to the rate of inflation. We are about to completely abandon that facade. 
   What are we about to do as we go into this new reckless era? The best case scenario--and we can assume under that that we will, indeed, be able to increase discretionary spending for the future only by the rate of inflation, that this is just a 1-year aberration through which we are living; that Halloween is going to be repealed for future years--if we have that best case scenario, we can anticipate that our surplus will sink by about $100 billion over the next 10 years--$100 billion less than the projections. 
   I do not think that is a credible scenario. I do not believe there is any reason to believe that what we are doing today is exceptional. Rather, what we  are doing today is going to be precedential for the future. And assume that it is precedential. The discretionary spending each year increases by the same rate that we are increasing it this year; that is, approximately 9 percent, or 5.5 percent more than the rate of inflation. 
   If we act in each of the next 10 years with the same abandon that we do this year, we will spend the entire 10-year projected surplus on this increased spending. There will be no money to strengthen Social Security. There will be no money to finance a tax cut. There will be no money to provide for prescription drugs through Medicare. In fact, spending at this rate will not only eliminate all of those potentials, but Congress will be forced to dip into the Social Security surplus, that thing which it has committed it would never ever do, by $400 billion over 10 years. 
   So we are making some very serious decisions as we pass this appropriations bill with its enormous increase in the limitation on discretionary spending. 
   Save Social Security, indeed. Could it be that when we talked about saving Social Security, we really meant preserving it as a museum piece so we could talk to our grandchildren about what it used to be like? We will tell them that back when we were young, the Government actually sent you money when you grew older and deserved a rest. But if discretionary spending will dent the surplus, the direction we are taking on mandatory spending will virtually hollow it out. 
   Our lack of fiscal discipline is not only to be found in the appropriations bill but also in the creation of new entitlements. We have already passed the Defense Department authorization bill that changes the health benefits as a new entitlement and will reduce the surplus by $60 billion over the next 10 years. 
   We are poised to approve give-backs to Medicare providers that will cost another estimated $75 to $80 billion of our surplus over the next 10 years. 
   Another $260 billion disappears if we pass a tax bill, which it is rumored that it is about to be presented to us by our colleagues from across the hall in the House of Representatives. 
   So when you add up all of this laundry list, you will find that we have reduced our surplus to another return to deficits. 
   It is very easy to add up these numbers and simply say it is too much, but I am well aware that much of the spending is for worthy causes, many of which I myself support. But what 
   these individual pieces of legislation do not add up to is a solid plan for the future. What they do not add up to is the requirement that we make choices, that we set priorities, that we decide which of all of these good things is most important, and that we have the discipline to stick to those priorities. 
   I ask again, whatever happened to ``Save Social Security first''? 
   Can we really say we have done anything to shore up the Medicare system which is desperately in need of an infusion if it is to remain viable for today's seniors, their children, and grandchildren? 
   Are we ever going to be able to pay down the debt? 
   Our colleagues in the House have suggested that 90 percent of the surplus for this year go to debt reduction. That proposal was for this year only, for fiscal year 2001, however, because they cannot do it over the next 10 years. Ten percent of the surplus would be $456 billion. Congress may very well enact legislation in the next few years that will exceed that amount by in excess of $100 billion. 
   We have already committed ourselves to more spending than the House of Representatives pledge would require using 90 percent of the surplus to pay down the national debt. 
   Mr. President, $100 billion is more money than most Americans can ever conceive of. 
   In a few short months, history will move forward again and we will gather together in the Chamber of the House of Representatives to greet a newly elected President to hear his first State of the Union Address. 
   By almost any measure, the state of our Union is strong. Our economy is the envy of the world. Incomes are up. Unemployment is down. Home ownership is up. Inflation is low. Mortgage rates remain modest. 
   As we await a new President, and the first State of the Union Address from that new President--the first new President elected in the 21st century--I am reminded of the historic State of the Union speech delivered by President Clinton at the beginning of 1998. 
   To provide context from that time, we, as a nation, were on the verge of shifting from annual deficits to a hope for a promised projected surplus. We were looking at a prospect we had not faced in years: What do we do with a possible surplus? 
   In his 1998 State of the Union Address, President Clinton answered that question. If I could quote from his eloquent words of that evening:  
   For three decades, six Presidents have come before you to warn of the damage deficits pose to our nation. Tonight, I come before you to announce that the federal deficit--once so incomprehensibly large that it had eleven zeros--will be, simply, zero. 
   If we balance the budget for the next year, it is projected that we'll then have a sizable surplus in the years that immediately follow. What should we do with this projected surplus? 
   I have a simple, four-word answer: Save Social Security first.  
   Mr. President, that simple four-word answer, ``Save Social Security first,'' brought all of us to our feet in January of 1998. And, Mr. President at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, your greatest legacy will be the restoration of fiscal discipline here in Washington. 
   Mr. President, you are being challenged as to the fidelity and sustainability of that commitment to fiscal discipline. We should now resist the temptation to allow the deficit monster to escape from the cage again. 
   We should give to President Clinton the rightful recognition for reversing decades of rampant borrowing and, as a result of that courage, producing sustained national prosperity and the potential for even more prosperity. 
   But, Mr. President, at the end of your administration, we need you to remain true to the principles that have produced this legacy. If we in the Congress are unable to exercise fiscal discipline, we will have to turn to you to provide us with the necessary restraints. 
   We are talking here about our children and our grandchildren. Are we again going to return to the days when we expect them to pay our bills or are we going to accept the responsibility that virtually every generation of Americans--but for those who have lived in the last 30 years--were prepared to accept? And that is that we would--each generation, each year--pay our bills and not ask future generations to do so. That is the fundamental issue we face with this appropriations bill. Because I believe it fails to meet that test, I will vote no. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield back my 30 seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the Senate is now considering the combined VA/HUD and Energy and Water appropriations bills. This combined bill follows the pattern established by previous appropriations bills considered by the Senate. Looking first to the VA/HUD appropriations bill, in the fiscal year 2000 that ended September 30 of this year, the appropriation for these accounts was $99.2 billion. 
   We had committed ourselves to a standard of previous year appropriations plus inflation. The Consumer Price Index has risen 3.5 percent over the past year. Making that adjustment, we would have set as a target for the VA-HUD bill an appropriation this year of $102.7 billion. In fact, the bill we are about to vote on has an appropriation of $105.5 billion, or approximately $2.8 billion over the standard that has been set. This budget represents an increase from fiscal year 2000 to fiscal year 2001, not of the 3.5-percent inflation but, rather, of 6.4 percent. 
   Looking at the second bill which has been added to the VA-HUD bill, which is the energy and water appropriations bill, again in fiscal year 2000, the appropriation for this budget was $21.2 billion. Adjusting it for the 3.5-percent inflation increase, we would have had a target of $21.9 billion for energy and water. In this conference report, we are being asked to authorize spending of $23.3 billion, or approximately $1.4 billion over the scheduled maximum increase. The increase in the energy and water appropriations bill represents a 9.9-percent growth from fiscal year 2000 to fiscal year 2001. 
   What is the significance of this? The significance is we started with a budget plan, and the plan was that we would attempt to restrain the growth in spending to the rate of inflation. If we did that, according to the Congressional Budget Office, we would have at the end of 10 years substantial surpluses not only in the Social Security trust fund but also surpluses in general government. 
   There are many important events which are taking place in the world today: The tragedy of the U.S.S. Cole, the crisis in the Middle East and, of course, the heat of fall Presidential and congressional elections. All of these things are fighting for the attention of the American people. In that context, it is easy to understand why most Americans have not focused their attention on what is happening under this dome, but I suggest that in the autumn of 2000, some of the most important decisions for our individual and our national futures are being made in these changes. 
   The House and the Senate are slowly closing the curtain on the 106th Congress. As the curtain draws to a close, we are in the midst of an orgy of spending and tax cuts, an orgy which threatens the fiscal discipline that many Members of this Congress and the administration have worked so hard to achieve. Worse than the decisions that are being made, however, is the process that is being used to make those decisions. 
   Long gone is the normal legislative process where we had hearings on ideas in the committees with jurisdiction. We developed legislation on a bipartisan basis with amendments being offered and votes taken; Presidential consideration of individual bills; and, should the President exercise his or her veto power, further debate and congressional action to potentially override the veto; finally, the give and take of negotiation that results in bills which will secure a Presidential signature. 
   In the place of this normal legislative process, we now have a process--if it deserves that word--where a handful of individuals make far-reaching decisions on legislation. Those decisions are then rushed to the House and Senate floors for final votes, often without the actual language of the measure being considered available to the Members of the House and the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, what we are now doing in the fall of 2000 is characterized by some representative examples of our excess. The Transportation appropriations conference report was not available for Members to review the night before the final vote, but at least there had been some debate on the Senate floor on the Transportation appropriations bill when it originally passed the Senate. 
   In the remaining days, we are going to be asked to approve measures for which there has never been Senate debate. As an example, we are going to be asked to make some significant paybacks to the providers of services through the Medicare program. This add-back legislation was never considered in the Senate Finance Committee, nor has it been considered on the Senate floor, but mark my word, we will soon be asked to vote on this substantial legislation. 
   The Commerce-State-Justice appropriations bill will also likely come to this body attached to an unrelated conference report without ever having been separately considered by the Senate. 
   I suggest we all need to grab hold of our aspirin bottles because we are likely to need plenty of those pills when we find out what is in these measures, a disclosure that is likely to occur several weeks after we have adjourned. 
   I ask unanimous consent to print in the RECORD immediately following my remarks a column which appeared in the October 18 Washington Post by David Broder under the headline ``So Long, Surplus.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it is hard to determine why we have fallen into this legislative abyss. It appears there is a strong desire to avoid the traditional legislative process in order to protect against having to take any votes at all, particularly any votes on controversial issues. In order to achieve that desire to avoid public commitment as to how we stand on various issues, we have abandoned all semblance of fiscal responsibility. Let me provide some large numbers. 
   In 1997, we passed the Balanced Budget Act which was a key step toward achieving first the elimination of the annual deficits that had become so much a part of our Nation's fiscal life and ushered in this era of surpluses. 
   In that 1997 Balanced Budget Act, we set a spending target for each of the future years. For the fiscal year 2001, our spending target for domestic discretionary accounts--these are the subject of the 13 appropriations bills, not taking into account expenditure for items such as Social Security, Medicare, interest on the national debt. But focusing on those things for which we in Congress have a responsibility to annually appropriate, we decided in 1997 that the spending limit for this year should be $564 billion. When the Senate passed its budget resolution in the spring of this year, we set a target, a constraint on ourselves, not of $564 billion, not even of $564 billion adjusted for some inflation, but rather $627 billion was the number to which we committed ourselves in the budget resolution. 
   As of today, with one appropriations bill that is an amalgamation of two bills before us and three more appropriations bills yet to be considered, we have already committed ourselves to appropriations of $638 billion. 
   It is estimated that when those final three bills are voted on, we will likely raise the final tally of total appropriations to as much as $650 billion, or some $85 billion more than the 1997 Balanced Budget Act indicated we should be spending this year.  
   There has been an attempt to lay the blame for this orgy of spending at the White House step. In the Washington Post of October 13, there was an article under the headline, ``DeLay Urges GOP Showdown With Clinton Over Spending Bill,'' where the majority whip in the House made this statement:  
   [He] argued that Clinton is ``addicted to spending'' and that Republicans must draw the line if they hope to conclude budget negotiations next week.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would say this is not the case; that we have both Republicans and Democrats alike entered into an enthusiastic, willing, and self-confessed role as coconspirators to the raiding of the surplus. 
   Our colleague from Arizona, Senator MCCAIN, stated it clearly last week when he chided his fellow Republican colleagues. ``We didn't come to the President with clean hands--we came with dirty hands,'' said Senator MCCAIN. 
   In another example of the lack of fiscal discipline--and it is part of the bill that we are going to be asked to vote upon this afternoon--the President vetoed the appropriations bill covering energy and water projects because there had been added to the appropriations bill a provision prohibiting, under certain circumstances, the use of funds to revise the Corps of Engineers' Missouri River Master Water Control Manual. This was not an issue of spending; it was an issue of the management of the Missouri River and who should have ultimate responsibility for that management. 
   Nevertheless, when this bill came back from the President's office with his veto, the response was to revise the bill by excising the provision which had led to the veto and then adding $26 million in additional water projects. This spending spree is not limited to the appropriators. Others have eagerly joined in the party. 
   Other spending and tax cuts which are being considered in the final hours include increases in spending for Medicare providers. I mentioned that earlier as an example of a provision that we are likely to get with no opportunity for debate or amendment. News reports indicate that this may total $28 billion over the next 5 years and perhaps as much as $80 billion over the next 10 years. We are about to be asked to do that without any debate, without any opportunity to amend or give the thoughtful consideration for which this institution is supposedly empowered. 
   We passed a military retiree health benefit that will add $60 billion over the next 10 years--again, with no open debate or opportunity to amend. 
   We repealed the Federal telephone tax, a provision that was tucked away in the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill. That will reduce revenues by $55 billion over 10 years. 
   I understand that there may be further proposed tax cuts that could have a cost of $200 to $250 billion over the next 10 
   years. 
   These are just examples of the almost total absence of any sense of fiscal discipline. It is possible to support many of these proposals, but I am concerned that we are operating without a blueprint. Congress is flying blind, and our plane has no global positioning system. In fact, we do not even have a hand compass to give us general direction as to where we should be going. 
   You might ask, What difference does it make? Why should Americans care this fall in the year 2000 as to what we are doing? Don't we have an enormous surplus? Can't we afford to do all of these things? 
   Americans can and do care because Congress is frittering away the hard-won surplus without a real plan for utilizing those surpluses and without addressing the big long-term problems facing our Nation. 
   Americans should care because by sleepwalking through the surplus, we are denying ourselves the chance to face these major national challenges. 
   A few days ago, the Congressional Budget Office released its long-term budget outlook. The Congressional Budget Office findings are not encouraging, but they are not surprising. That may explain why that report garnered such little attention by the media and by Members of Congress. 
   What were those Congressional Budget Office findings? The Federal Government spending on health and retirement programs--Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security--dominates the long-term budget outlook. Why? The retirement of the baby-boom generation will drastically increase the number of Americans receiving retirement and health care benefits. The cost of providing health care is growing faster than the overall economy. The number of Americans working to support that much larger retirement segment of our population will be essentially stabilized. 
   Saving most or all of the budget surplus that CBO projects over the next 10 years--using those savings to pay down the debt--according to the Congressional Budget Office, would have a positive impact on those projections of future obligations and substantially delay the emergence of a serious fiscal imbalance. 
   Despite the clear delineation of the long-term problems, and the even clearer outline of the short-term steps Congress can take to begin to address those problems--primarily, saving the surplus and paying down the debt--Congress seems content on frittering away the surplus. 
   We have an obligation to not let this happen. In fact, it is not necessary. There are some basic principles to which we could recommit ourselves which would avoid the path that I fear is about to take us over the canyon cliff. 
   First, we should return to that admonition that guided us so effectively just 2 years ago, and that was: Save Social Security first. The surplus should be used to pay down the debt. The kind of direction which the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives has suggested to us--that we should use 90 percent of the fiscal year 2001 surplus for debt reduction--is not only a good idea for the fiscal year 2001 but should be a guiding principle into the future until we have met that first obligation of saving Social Security first. We also need to establish some priorities. 
   In those ugly days of deficits, we were taught some valuable lessons. One of those lessons was the need to prioritize. The tool that forced us to do that was a requirement that for each additional dollar of spending enacted, a dollar of spending had to be reduced or a dollar of taxes had to be raised. That was a firm discipline. 
   The surplus has eroded that discipline. Many of the proposals being enacted in these waning days are desirable. Perhaps they are even more desirable than commitments that are already on our law books. 
   We are failing the American public by not having an honest, open debate about the tradeoffs that are necessary to enact these programs. If we are going to add a substantial new benefit--whether it be to Medicare providers or whether it be to military veterans--we should be prepared to answer the question, Where are we going to pay for that new commitment, either in terms of reducing spending elsewhere or raising taxes to pay for it? 
   We should not be eating away at the surplus which is going to be the basis upon which we can meet some of the long-term significant challenges that face our Nation. 
   There are few Congresses in the history of this Nation which have had such a wonderful opportunity to face and respond to important challenges to our Nation's future. Few Congresses will be judged so harshly for avoiding, trivializing, and ultimately failing to seize that opportunity. 
   I urge my colleagues in Congress, as well as those in the White House, to stop acting as the proverbial children in the candy store and start acting as statesmen and stateswomen. At the very least, let us follow the admonition given to all healers, which is: First, do no harm. 
   I regretfully announce that I will have to vote against this appropriations bill because it fails to comply with the fiscal discipline we established for ourselves, first in 1997 as part of the Balanced Budget Act and then this year in the development of our own budget resolution. I hope there will be a sufficient number of my colleagues who will join me in expressing our outrage as to what we are doing in  terms of our Nation's future, what we are doing in terms of asking our children and grandchildren to have to deal with some of the issues that will be much more difficult for them than they are for us today. 
   Now is the time to face the issue of dealing with these long-term commitments that we as a society have undertaken. We have the capacity to do so. The question is, Do we have the will to do so? 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I heard the remarks of our colleague from Nevada about our good friend, BRUCE VENTO. I also express my deepest sympathies to his family at their loss. It is a loss to them and it is a loss to America. BRUCE VENTO was a man who educated many of us, including myself, as to the great value of our national parks; that in many ways they are the repositories of America's dream, of what kind of a country we were and what kind of an America we wish to leave for future generations. 
   I had the opportunity to talk to Congressman VENTO just a few weeks ago on behalf of a national park that I feel very deeply about, Everglades National Park. As always, he was extremely solicitous of information and forthcoming in his willingness to be of assistance. 
   I am saddened today at the news of BRUCE VENTO's passing. America, and particularly our great natural treasures, have lost a tremendous friend and articulate advocate on their behalf. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I come this afternoon to the floor for two reasons. The first is to express my general dismay at the status of the budgeting process for this year. Second is to give a specific example of how this process has resulted in a program--which was clearly outlined and approved by Congress and signed into law by the President as the Equity Transportation Act for the 21st Century, generally referred to as TEA-21--has been convoluted. 
   Let me first talk about the general budgeting process for this year. We are now 10 days into the new fiscal year, and substantial parts of our budget have yet to be enacted and sent to the President for his consideration. Even more dismaying than that is what is in the budgets that we have passed and sent to the President. I use, as example, No. 1, the most recent budget this Senate has acted upon when, last Friday, we passed the Transportation appropriations conference committee report. 
   First, the process. I was very interested in this bill, as will become apparent as I move to point No. 2 of my remarks. Yet it was not available until Friday morning, the same morning that we were called to vote upon this very complex bill which will allocate some $58 billion of our National Treasury. Even today, specific details are yet to be discerned. So we are operating as alleged pilots of the national fiscal trust through dark clouds and fog and driving rain, unaware of where we are or where we have gone. 
   I am also very concerned about the specific numbers in this legislation. I know this has been an issue of great concern to our Presiding Officer, who has, in his period in the Senate, distinguished himself as one who is very concerned about our fiscal discipline. 
   For the fiscal year 2000, which ended September 30, we had a Transportation appropriations amount of $50.7 billion. That is what we spent over the preceding 12 months. We have been operating under a budget resolution which, because of its own complexities, is difficult to align precisely with one of the specific appropriations bills, but we have had a general philosophy that the appropriations for fiscal year 2001 should not grow at a rate greater than the rate of inflation. According to the Consumer Price Index for the period July 1999 to July 2000, the rate of inflation for the United States was 3.5 percent. 
   If you add 3.5 percent to last year's Transportation appropriations, you would add, in rounded numbers, $1.775 billion for a total of $52.475 billion. That would have been the goal, the destination, the ceiling for spending under this Transportation account using the principle that the budget should be restrained to the rate of inflation. 
   The administration submitted a budget for this account that was $54.6 billion. The Senate passed a Transportation bill which was $54.8 billion. 
   But when the bill came back from the conference committee with the House, the total amount of the bill that we voted on favorably last Friday was $58 billion, a 14-percent growth over the expenditure on the same account for the previous fiscal year. That is a staggering increase, and it is an increase which puts at risk many of the things upon which the political campaigns of the fall of 2000 have focused their attention: How are we going to spend the non-Social Security surplus? How will we utilize the $2.2 trillion that is projected to come into the National Treasury over the next 10 years? I underscore that the $2.2 trillion is on the assumption that we will hold spending for this 10-year period to the rate of inflation. That rate was 3 1/2 percent. Yet in this one budget we have spent 14 percent. 
   If this budget were to be the standard by which we operated--this budget represents about 8 percent of the total discretionary spending of the United States. If we exceed every budget by the same amount that we have done with this one budget of Transportation, we will diminish that non-Social Security surplus in the range of 35 to 40 percent. This is serious business because we are making representations to the American people that we are going to protect that surplus; that we are going to use it either for targeted tax cuts, to  use it to build up our Social Security and Medicare program, and finance a prescription drug benefit or for large-scale tax cuts. 
   We are about to make all of those options unattainable if we do not exercise a greater degree of discipline over our spending this year and set the standard for what the spending will be over the next 9 years of this decade. 
   I first raise the alarm as to the process and the consequences of the budgets with which we are dealing as we conclude this session of Congress and lay out the fiscal plan for the Federal Government for the year 2001. 
   The second reason for my being here this afternoon is to bring to the attention of the Senate and the American people what we have done to one of the most innovative aspects of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, TEA-21. 
   In March of 1998, Congress overwhelmingly approved this groundbreaking transportation legislation to revamp the distribution of Federal highway funds. That legislation established, among other things, the intelligent transportation system, or ITS program, which sets aside money for research, development, and deployment of the components of an intelligent transportation system. The goal: to establish a sound policy for dealing with traffic congestion in the new millennium. The ITS program will work to solve congestion and safety, improve operating efficiencies in transit and commercial vehicles, and reduce the environmental impact of the growing travel demand. 
   The intelligent transportation systems use things such as modern computers, management techniques, and information technologies to improve the flow of traffic. ITS applications range from electronic highway signs that direct drivers away from accidents or other sources of congestion on the highways, to advanced radio advisories, to more efficient public transit. 
   Congress has sought to reward States that develop an intelligent transportation system. Demand for roads is increasing, particularly in the most populous and fastest growing areas of our country. Business commutes are getting longer, leisure travel options are becoming wider. States were encouraged to make use of advanced communications technology to ease gridlock. 
   This plan, developed by the Environment and Public Works Committee, where our Presiding Officer serves as chair of the subcommittee that has responsibility for this very legislation, was thoughtful and the plan had a specific purpose in mind: to foster the growth of intelligent transportation systems and, in a scientific manner, to gather results from the new ITS programs so that we could make wise decisions about the future direction of ITS when the next transportation bill is authorized in approximately 2003. 
   I am sad to report that this plan has come undone through the appropriations process. Allow me to explain how this has happened. 
   The Texas Transportation Institute at Texas A&M University, in conjunction with many State departments of transportation, conducts a periodic study of the traffic conditions in our Nation. The latest annual mobility report produced in 1999 ranked the 70 most congested urban areas, cities, and small towns in America. It would seem reasonable, it would make common sense that those cities with the worst traffic congestion would receive Federal funds to implement, improve, or expand their intelligent transportation system. Indeed, the creators of the intelligent transportation system program in TEA-21 meant it to work that way. The law says that ITS projects must be selected through competitive solicitation and meet certain 
   detailed criteria for program funding dollars. 
   I will read a few excerpts from that law. The authors set out the gathering of effective data as a goal in TEA-21:  
   To assure that Federal, State, and local transportation officials have adequate knowledge of intelligent transportation systems for full consideration in the transportation planning process.  
   To me, that means we need to be able to offer to Federal, State, and local transportation officials accurate and scientific data on ITS. The authors of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century spelled it out more precisely when they said:  
   The Secretary shall select for funding through competitive solicitations projects that will serve as models to improve transportation efficiency, promote safety.......  
   And for other reasons listed in the statute. 
   Unfortunately, the intent of the legislation has not followed. It was not followed first in the fiscal year 2000. Of the total $221 million made available in the fiscal year 2000, the year that ended September 30 of this year, all but about 10 percent of that $211 million was earmarked. For those who are not familiar with the jargon of the Congress, ``earmarked'' means there was a total amount of money available for a particular objective, in this case to fund the intelligent transportation systems, which, according to statute, was to be allocated based on competition. Of that $211 million, 90 percent of it had a specific designation to a particular State or community within the United States. 
   According to the Texas report, the 15 most congested cities in the United States as of 1999 were: Los Angeles, Seattle, San Francisco, Washington, DC, Chicago, Miami, Atlanta, Boston, Detroit, San Diego, Houston, New York City, Portland, and San Jose. 
   Mr. President, would you be surprised, would you be stunned and appalled, if I were to tell you that in the fiscal year 2000, none of those 15 cities received any of the intelligent transportation system money? The 15 most congested cities in America, according to the national survey upon which we rely, were allocated a penny for ITS money. 
   Of the other most congested cities highlighted in the Texas transportation study, only five received funds, while a sixth city probably will receive funds from an overall earmark to the State in which it was located. Those funds, for the five cities and the one State, totaled only $7 million or 3 percent of the total ITS appropriation of $211 million. 
   We have 75 of the most congested cities in America, cities in urban areas and smaller communities getting 3 percent of the money to assist them, through intelligent transportation systems technologies, in improving their traffic congestion. I was so offended by that that I, on September 15 of this year, wrote a letter to the Transportation appropriations conferees urging them, for the year 2001, which began October 1 of this year, not to repeat the mistake made in the previous year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I quote the concluding paragraph of the letter, which states:  
   I encourage you to adhere to the design created by TEA-21. The Congress has the opportunity, through ITS and other programs, to strengthen our national transportation infrastructure in a cost-effective, efficient manner. We undermine those efforts if we don't follow the criteria established and passed by Congress in TEA-21.  
   So in that context, it was with dismay that last Friday morning, when I finally had an opportunity to look at the Transportation conference report, I realized that again we were committing the same mistake. For the second year in a row, none of the top 15 traffic-choked cities got funding for intelligent transportation system technology to assist them in alleviating their gridlock. 
   Taking the list even further, none of the top 20 most congested cities received intelligent transportation system funding. Those additional five cities included Denver, Phoenix, San Bernardino, Minneapolis-St. Paul, and Tacoma, WA. Those five cities are added to the 15 that I have previously read in the category of cities that are the most 20 congested cities in America, none of whom received any of the intelligent transportation system money. This suggests to me a total disconnect between the problem that led to the creation of ITS in the first place and the allocation of dollars by the appropriators. 
   In addition to that fundamental disconnect, I am also concerned that the amounts of money that have been earmarked appear to be nonscientific. If you look at the conference report, you will see round figures, such as $200,000, $500,000, $1 million, $2 million, and so  forth. Such figures are unlikely to be to the real dollar amount needed to fund well-designed, specific projects. 
   Investment in intelligent transportation technology pays huge dividends, but it is expensive. As an example, on February 17 of this year, I did one of my monthly workdays with the evolving ITS technology in and around Orlando, FL. Orlando has the most advanced intelligent transportation system program in my State. The first phase of the Orlando system cost nearly $8 million. When complete, the Orlando ITS system will cost about $14 million. In these earmarks, I wonder whether such small sums, such round numbers, are actually calculated to reach the critical mass needed to get a project underway and completed. Small sums, distributed widely across the Nation, are not the most effective, efficient way to use these precious dollars to alleviate priority congestion concerns. 
   Lastly and possibly most crucially, we are missing a critical opportunity: the opportunity to gather data in a scientific, meaningful way about an evolving technology, a technology which has the potential to mitigate traffic congestion and make our highways safer. 
   Gathering this information is important because TEA-21 was the first surface transportation bill to focus to such an extent on intelligent transportation systems. The authors of TEA-21 wanted to push the envelope and emphasize the use of technology as a strategy to ease traffic gridlock. 
   In 2 or 3 years from now, when we are reauthorizing the next surface transportation bill, we will need to ask: Did these ITS programs work? If so, what are the key elements in their successes? Should we expand ITS as a strategy to reduce 
   traffic congestion? If we do not use the resources that we have devoted to ITS in a prudent, rational, scientific way, will we have the experience and information necessary to answer those questions in an informed way? 
   The short answer to that is, no. 
   The 2-year history of ITS causes concern for other Senate action. We have just finished debate on the Interior appropriations bill, a thoughtful piece of legislation. The Conservation and Reinvestment Act, CARA, was sidetracked by that Interior appropriations bill and replaced with language which assures that the appropriators will control specific allocations. The CARA bill had a vision, a vision to provide the American people with a permanent, dedicated source of funding to invest in our children's futures by preserving and protecting our natural resources--the very cause for which our departed friend, Congressman BRUCE VENTO, spent so much of his life and his congressional career. 
   This bill would have bolstered the Federal Government's relationship with our State governments by maintaining the Federal side of a respectful partnership, with the States to develop and support natural treasures, from urban parks and historic sites to the preservation of our coastal resources. 
   But instead of this carefully constructed program, which enjoyed widespread support, we were left with the following by the appropriations conference report. Quoting from that conference report for the Department of the Interior:  
   This program is not mandatory and does not guarantee annual appropriations.  
   Continuing to quote:  
   The House and Senate Committees on Appropriations have discretion in the amounts to be appropriated each year, subject to certain maximum amounts as described herein.  
   With that language, we have declared failure. We have failed to take advantage of our opportunity to enact landmark conservation legislation. We would be wildly optimistic to expect that the goals of the CARA legislation will be met. 
   With what we now see has happened to ITS, to intelligent transportation systems, what confidence can Americans have that the goal of protecting our natural resources will be met? What reason do we have to expect a different outcome, with the dream of sustained investment in protecting our natural resources, than the shredded results of reduced traffic congestion through intelligent transportation systems? The short answer is, none. 
   Returning to the Transportation appropriations bill, earmarks, in my view, are more acceptable in mature transportation programs than where we are attempting to learn about new technologies and policy approaches. We can and should address the needs of specific communities. ITS, however, is an evolving resource in transportation, and we should adhere to the intent of the law in seeking a competitive, scientific process to distribute these ITS funds. 
   This appropriations process, with respect to ITS, has foreclosed the valuable information which a rational distribution of funds would have given us. 
   In conclusion, I am concerned about the broad path upon which we are traveling as we conclude the consideration of the appropriations bill for fiscal year 2001. We are dramatically overspending the standard we set for ourselves just a few months ago. By that overspending, we are putting at risk the opportunity to use a significant Federal surplus for a variety of very beneficial purposes which will aid our people not only this year but for decades to come. And, within our appropriations, we are losing the opportunity to intelligently allocate funds against the targeted goals, such as the reduction of traffic congestion or the protection of our natural resources. Rather, we are succumbing to the temptation to earmark, to specify, based on considerations other than what is in a rational, long-term plan of prioritization of our Nation's needs. 
   We have but a few days left in this session, I hope. It would be my fondest expectation--or at least my optimistic dream--that we would use these few remaining days in a more constructive manner than has been demonstrated in the past few days, 
   that we would use these to exercise principles of fiscal discipline and vision and the willingness to put aside our personal and parochial interests for what is in the broader national interest. 
   That is our challenge. That is what the American people expect of their elected representatives. It is a goal on which we have faltered in recent days. Let us use the remaining days to regain our solid fiscal footing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The bill includes a provision that caps emergency home repair assistance for individuals and households at $5,000. Could the Chairman elaborate on this provision to describe what additional assistance might be available to individuals and households should their emergency home repair costs exceed $5,000? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Is it correct, then, that if an individual or household was unable to obtain a loan from SBA, or assistance from another source, then they could be eligible to receive additional emergency home repair assistance, based upon the regulations that FEMA promulgates for this section, and as long as the total FEMA assistance received by that individual or household does not exceed $25,000? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chairman for the clarification. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I believe by previous order, I have 30 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am here today in support of my colleague from Louisiana and to express my dismay at the content of the Interior appropriations conference report which we are considering. Senator LANDRIEU knows better than each of us the amount of work, dedication, and focus it took to produce the widely and wildly supported legislation, the Conservation and Reinvestment Act, or CARA, which has passed the House, passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and now awaits Senate floor action. 
   We have a unique opportunity before us in this session of the Congress: the ability to enact conservation legislation that will have a positive impact not just for ourselves but for our children and grandchildren, long after we have left this Chamber. 
   This opportunity is in the historical mainstream of the United States of America. We are starting a new century, the 21st century. It is the third full new century that has been started since the United States of America became a sovereign nation. 
   The first of those full centuries was the 19th century. We were led into the 19th century by one of our greatest Presidents, whose bust is above the Presiding Officer, Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson had a goal, a goal to acquire the city of New Orleans, which ironically is the home of Senator LANDRIEU. The purpose was to secure water transit on the Mississippi for American commerce, as it was developing in the Mississippi Valley, the Ohio Valley of the Presiding Officer, and later in the Missouri River Valley. 
   President Jefferson suddenly had a unique opportunity before him. While his negotiators were discussing with the French, the then-owners of New Orleans, the purchase of that city, they were met with a counter offer. Don't just buy New Orleans; buy the entire Louisiana territory. 
   President Jefferson seized this opportunity and fundamentally transformed the United States of America. No longer were we an Atlantic nation. We were a continental nation. No longer were we a nation in which Americans were quickly using up their original land; we were a nation that had an enormous new area to develop. 
   America suddenly had also been saved from the prospect of North America becoming a battleground for European rivalries because, with Louisiana in hand, the United States would be the dominant force in North America and would not have to contend with the prospect of the English, the French, the Spanish, and other Europeans attempting to settle their long animosities on our territory. 
   That was a truly bold idea, an idea that led us into the 19th century and has forever transformed our Nation. 
   We began the 20th century with another similarly bold leader, Theodore Roosevelt, whose bust is just outside the main entrance to the Senate Chamber. 
   Theodore Roosevelt had an idea that America should become a place which respected its natural heritage. So in his almost 8 years as President, he added to the national inventory of public lands an area that is the size of all the States which touch the Atlantic Ocean from Maine to Florida--an enormous contribution to our patrimony which, again, has served to transform both our idea of America and our access to America. 
   We had an opportunity to start the 21st century with an idea which, if not of the scale of either the Louisiana Purchase or Theodore Roosevelt's commitments to public lands, would have been a statement that our generation still recognized its obligation to prepare for the future, as those two great leaders had done. 
   That was what the Conservation and Reinvestment Act was about--to take a portion of the Anglo revenue, which the United States receives from Outer Continental Shelf drilling, and invest those funds in a better America for our future generations. 
   I submit that this opportunity for a bold, grand idea in the tradition of Jefferson and Roosevelt--an idea that could have come close to being a legacy--is now, in fact, sadly a travesty, a mere shadow of what could have been. I suggest that there is no more inappropriate time for us to turn timid and retreat from what could have been. When Theodore Roosevelt became President of the United States in the early part of the 20th century, the United States had a population of approximately 125 million people. By the end of the 20th century, the United States has a population of 275 million people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I say to my colleague, I am concerned that several of your criticisms sound to me as if they are really criticisms against Medicare, as opposed to the idea of prescription drugs being offered through Medicare. For instance, did you just say that you  felt it was inappropriate that there be a premium charged for the prescription medication benefit? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. So you are opposed to the principle of a shared cost program between beneficiaries and the Federal Government in delivering Medicare; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. No. 1, you understand, of course, that Part B of Medicare requires, first, a voluntary election to participate and then, second, a monthly premium which today is approximately $45? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. You also understand the Vice President's plan would require a second voluntary election to participate in prescription drugs, and the monthly fee would be $25, or $300 a year, not $600 a year? Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. No. 2, do you understand Part B of Medicare--I am talking about Medicare as it existed for 35 years--requires the exact same election process as the Vice President's plan would require for prescription drugs? He is doing nothing beyond what we have done for 35 years in Part B of Medicare; that is, the physicians and outpatient services. Do you agree with that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. No. 1, it is $25 a month or $300 a year. No. 2, it is a voluntary election, exactly the same way that you had a voluntary election for Part B for 35 years. 
   No. 3, you understand that the plan of the Vice President is a universal plan like all the rest of Medicare; over 39 million Americans who are eligible for Medicare are eligible to make the voluntary election to participate in the prescription drug benefit? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am talking about the plan that will be in effect in the year 2002 when we adopt this plan. It will be a voluntary plan. It will be a plan which will be affordable. It will not only give you the benefit of access to 50-percent coverage of your immediate prescription medication cost, but it will also give you, after you pay $4,000, a stop loss, a catastrophic intercept which says, beyond that point, the Federal Government will pay all of your prescription drug bills. 
   That is, in my opinion, the most important part of this plan because the fear of many seniors, and the thing they see as the potential threat to not only their health but their economic security, is that they are going to fall into a serious illness where suddenly their prescription drug costs are not $20 or $30 a month but are $800 or $1,000 a month. 
   The Vice President's plan assures that after you have paid $4,000, then you will have a stop loss against any further payments. Don't you think that is a pretty significant security for America's seniors? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. As you understand, all of the plans provide for no payment for persons who are above the Medicaid eligibility limit but generally below 175 percent of poverty, which means approximately $14,000 or $15,000. They would pay no premium. They would pay no copayments. They would have no deductibles. For those people, the Vice President's plan would be fully available without any charges. 
   What we are talking about in both plans is the people who are above 175 percent of poverty. What percentage subsidization would you provide for persons over 175 percent of poverty? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. So you pay $175 a month, is your premium. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. If I had been there last night--and I know the rules of the first debate precluded having a chart--I would have loved to have had a chart and asked Governor Bush to fill in the blanks. Since we do not have Governor Bush here but you are advocating the first phase of his plan, let me ask you about a few of the blanks on his chart. 
   What would be your coverage for persons over 175 percent of poverty? What percentage of their prescription drug costs would you cover? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am trying to get the facts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-13-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Let me ask about your plan. For persons over 175 percent of poverty, what percentage of the prescription drug expenses would you have the plan cover as opposed to that for which the individual would be responsible? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-14-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. So it would be a $150 monthly deductible and a $25 copay? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-15-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Is that copay per prescription filled? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-16-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thought $150 a month was the deductible. There is a copay beyond that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-17-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. How is that calculated? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-18-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The plan would pay 25 percent---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-19-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. What do you estimate to be the cost of that plan that has a $150 deductible and $25 copay? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-20-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. How can you offer a more generous plan by having the beneficiary pay only 25 percent as opposed  to the Vice President's 50 percent and yet have such a lower cost? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-21-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will conclude these questions by going back to my first assertion. We are not talking about prescription drugs through Medicare; we are talking about an assault against the basic principles of Medicare itself. That is a universal program, not a program limited by class to only the poor and near poor of America: That is a voluntary program. That is a shared cost program between the beneficiary and the Federal Government. That is a comprehensive program that covers all of the necessary health care for older Americans. And, as I believe the Senator stated in his introductory comments, nobody would develop Medicare today, in 2000, without having a prescription drug benefit. 
   When you attack all those principles that are the foundation of Medicare, what you are really doing is attacking one of the programs which has made the greatest contribution to lifting 39 million Americans into levels of respect and security and well-being of any program that the Federal Government has ever developed. The American people need to hear that this debate is not just about prescription drugs; it is about a frontal assault against Medicare. If this philosophy prevails, that is where the battleground will be. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, on 23 May 2000, I introduced the Ecstasy Anti-proliferation Act of 2000, now known as S. 2612. The original bill text was not printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD for that day. I am resubmitting  the original text of the bill and ask unanimous consent that the text be printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I again lend my support to the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act. I understand we may be voting at 4:30 this afternoon to waive the rules to allow this legislation to be considered. I am hopeful in  the spirit of fundamental fairness the Senate will vote to allow a full debate on this issue. 
   The focus of this legislation is the same word that I just used to refer to what I hope will be the disposition of the Senate, and that is ``fairness.'' There has been a lot of discussion over the past few days about high-tech workers, H-1B visas. Our American companies need these high-tech workers. 
   Unfortunately, there are deficiencies in the skill level of Americans which have resulted in the necessity of providing visas for specific high-skilled foreign workers to come to the United States to fill these jobs. I hope this deficiency will just be a temporary one and we will use the debate we are having on H-1B as a spur to do the fundamental reforms we are called upon to do to see that Americans have the skills to fill these high-tech, high-wage jobs. Until then, American industry needs these workers. High-tech industries are one of the engines that have been growing our prosperous economy. 
   I want to see the H-1B bill become law. I am a cosponsor and a long-time supporter of this legislation. However, high-tech workers are not the engine of our economic growth. The equally essential workers in our service and retail industry, manufacturing, care giving, tourism, and others are part of that economic engine. The need is great for H-1B and high-tech workers. The need is also great for these essential workers. Many of these workers would remain as legal, permanent members of our society under the relief provided with the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act. 
   Simply put, what is fairness? I said before that we all learn in grammar school what is fair and what is not fair. It is fair for a teacher to punish two noisy and disruptive schoolchildren by keeping both of them inside during recess. But if the teacher keeps only one student in and lets the other go outside and play, that is unfair. In other words, fair is treating people in the same circumstances in the same way. This is exactly what we are trying to achieve with the ``NACARA Parity'' section of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act. 
   We are here today trying to achieve fairness because in 1996 we passed an immigration law that went too far. It was unfair because it applied retroactively. This is like changing the rules in the middle of the game. This is what we have done, and we should correct it, and we should begin that process of correction today. 
   What we are being asked to do is not to provide citizenship or even legal permanent status to the persons who will be affected by this legislation. In most instances what we are being asked to do is to give these people a chance to apply for legal status in the United States, just as we have given others who are in the same circumstances the right to apply for legal residence in the United States. 
   I spoke on the Senate floor earlier about the human faces and human stories I came to know when Congress corrected part of this unfairness, the unfairness of the 1996 act, in 1997 and 1998 with two immigration bills dealing with Central Americans and Haitians. 
   On the Senate floor I spoke of Alexandra Charles, whom I came to know when I participated in a hearing held in Miami when we were originally introducing the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act. Let me tell you Alexandra's story. 
   As a young child in Haiti, she witnessed the military murder her mother. Her father has disappeared. She came to the United States as an unaccompanied minor, but she has built a life here. When I testified about her at the hearing in Miami, she was working at two jobs. She was finishing 2 years at Miami Dade Community College. Congress took the right step, in 1997, to protect her future in the United States. We have the opportunity today to start the process to take the right step for others who are in Alexandra's same circumstances. 
   We are now treating differently those individuals who faced equally arduous hurdles to come to the United States: Those who fled civil wars, those who witnessed brutal acts--such as Alexandra, seeing a military man shoot down her mother--those who were forced out of a nation after a military overthrow because of their views on democracy. Our Nation has always set the standard for offering refuge to those in need. We did so in this case. We gave legal status to many in the mid-1980s who came here in these circumstances, fleeing persecution, seeking democracy and freedom. Then, in 1996 we took it away and did it retroactively. This is wrong. This is not the American way. We should correct this error in this legislation. 
   In July of this year, Congressman ALCEE HASTINGS and I met with members of the Haitian community in Fort Lauderdale, FL. One of the audience members who approached the microphone to speak was in elementary school. His name was Rickerson Moises. He and some of his siblings were born in the United States. They are U.S. citizens. His mother fled the violence in Haiti but was not protected in the Haitian Refugee Fairness Act because she came with a false document, a method she had to take 
   to escape Haiti. 
   If I could just explain for a moment the differences in exit from Haiti during that period of the Duvalier regime and then the military dictatorship which followed. Most Haitians who fled the country did so by small boat. They arrived in the United States with no documentation at all. They had no passports, no other documents to support their exit from their former country or their arrival in the United States. There was another group, a smaller group, approximately 10,000, who came by commercial airline. These frequently were the people who were in the greatest jeopardy. They realized they did not have time to seek out a boat, to wait possibly the days or weeks before the boat was prepared to leave. They had to leave tonight because of the nature of the threat they faced. 
   Mr. President, I ask for an additional 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. It will come from the minority side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, in light of the fact that there is no one here seeking the floor, I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to continue until someone seeks the floor or for an additional 5 minutes, whichever is shorter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, those persons who came by commercial airliner had to have some documents in order to get on the plane. So what they would frequently do is get counterfeit passports so they could get onto the plane and out of Haiti and escape the imminent prospect of persecution or worse. 
   She was one of those persons. She came to the United States with false documents, counterfeit documents she admits. Had she come with no documents at all, she would have been allowed to stay here. But because she arrived with false documents, she is subject to deportation. After years of life in the United States, this action would separate U.S. citizen children from their Haitian mother. This is an agonizing choice--follow the law and leave your children behind or take your children back to a country where you suffered violence and persecution. I cannot think of any choice more un-American, more offensive to our basic principles. We have a chance to correct this and restore fairness, and we should do so as soon as possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I do not want to speak much longer. I didn't speak much when I was on the floor before about another element of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act because I focused on my own personal experiences in south Florida. But  the ``registry date'' component of the legislation will have a tremendously positive impact on my State and on our Nation as a whole. 
   Congress every so often in the course of legislation updates what is called the registry date in immigration law. This is the way, for many years, residents of our Nation have had to formalize their status in the United States. It recognizes the fact that after many years in our country doing the hardest work, paying taxes, participating in the community, and starting small businesses, there should be an avenue of appeal to be able to stay in the United States. 
   To apply for relief--and I underscore apply for relief, not be granted relief--to apply for relief under the new registry date, 1986, you must have been here since that time, nearly 15 years. 
   For many Floridians, these are the most long-term employees or our established neighbors. These workers for Florida's companies have the most experience and are among the most dedicated. It is fundamentally unfair to these workers, the businesses, and our communities to uproot these families after 15 years or more. 
   Critics have said this condones illegal immigration. Our Nation should have a firm policy on illegal immigration, and through the last few years' appropriations cycles, we have allocated more money for border enforcement. We have the Federal responsibility to strengthen our borders, but we also have the responsibility to face the reality and the consequences of uprooting families after nearly two decades of work and life in the United States. 
   Many of these individuals did have legal status at one time and were affected by the immigration laws passed in 1996. Some were given bad advice about whether they were eligible for the amnesty program in 1986. They were told not to apply, when, in fact, they were eligible for the program. 
   Updating the registry date allows those who have dedicated 15 or more years of their life to building and strengthening our economy and Nation to finally have the opportunity for a formal status here. It makes both economic and humanitarian sense. 
   Lastly, I want to react to some of the debate yesterday. I believe there should be a free and open debate on this important immigration issue, but, in my view, that debate does not need to be partisan. 
   This is an issue that affects every city, business, and family in America. It crosses State lines and party lines. There is a common ground, and I hope we can work together to find a way to allow both H-1B and the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act to become law. It is in the greatest of America's tradition of justice and fairness. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, with my colleagues, Senators KENNEDY, LEAHY, DURBIN, KERRY, and WELLSTONE to introduce legislation that will help restore fairness and justice to our legal system. 
   Our nation is known worldwide for our system of justice. 
   We proclaim that everyone is equal under the eyes of the law. 
   Since the passage of the 1996 immigration law and the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, this statement has been only partially true. 
   There have been thousands of individuals who have been, in simple terms, punished twice: once for a crime, even a very minor crime, that was committed, and once again for their immigration status. 
   These are individuals who are legally here in the United States; but they are not U.S. citizens. 
   I do a workday once a month. 
   On these days I work a full shift on jobs ranging from garbage collection to teaching. 
   In my 345th workday, in May 1999, I spent the day at the INS Krome Detention Center near Miami. 
   I met individuals who had been legally present in the United States for years. 
   They had committed a crime, and for that they had fully served any criminal sentence that was imposed. 
   When I met them, they were being indefinitely detained by the INS solely because of their immigration status. 
   Under the two laws we passed in 1996, the United States could not release them. 
   And because we don't have a treaty with their country of origin--in this case--Cuba, we could not deport them. 
   Cuba won't take them back. 
   So we are locking up for life individuals who may have bounced a check, or stolen a car radio and have already been sentenced, and have completed their sentence, for those crimes by a court of law. 
   Allow me to offer a few examples from my home state of Florida. 
   Catherine Caza was born in Canada but came to this country as a legal permanent resident when she was three years old. 
   She has always considered herself an American. 
   Until recently, she had no reason to believe otherwise. 
   Twenty years ago Ms. Caza made a terrible mistake. She sold drugs to an undercover policeman. For this she pleaded guilty and received five years probation--which she successfully completed. 
   That was 20 years ago. Now she is 40 years old. She is the mother of a 7-year-old girl. She is attending college, hoping to someday become a social worker. The INS wants to deport her. 
   Ms. Caza is scared, and justifiably so. She wonders how she will be able to build a new life for herself and her daughter, her American-born daughter, in a country that is wholly unfamiliar. 
   Roberto and Sheila Salas are facing an equally bleak future.  
   Mrs. Salas dreamed of going overseas with the United States Air Force. Naturally, she planned to take her husband and two children with her. 
   Her husband, 31-year-old Roberto Salas, came to this country from Peru as a permanent legal resident when he was 17. 
   At 19, he was sentenced to five years probation. He was released from probation two years early because he followed all the rules. He has followed the rules ever since. 
   His family calls him a loving husband and father and a good provider. In 1997 he applied for naturalization so his wife could go overseas. Months later he was told that his adopted country was sending him back to Peru. The rules had changed. 
   These are, as I have said, just two of countless stories from every state in the nation. This is not fair. This is not humane. This is simply not reasonable. 
   Our legislation tries to restore a measure of sanity to the laws governing deportation of legal aliens. 
   First and foremost: It is blatantly unfair to change the rules in the middle of the game. This is what we did in 1996. 
   We passed a bill that applied new rules retroactively. We need to fix this. Under our legislation, if you committed a crime 10 years ago, the rules that will punish you will be the rules that were in place then. 
   This bill restores proportionality to our immigration law. With the passage of Immigrant Fairness Restoration Act, the ``punishment will fit the crime.'' 
   Under our current law, an individual can be deported for very minor crimes. 
   They can be punished even if a judge and jury hand down no jail time. 
   This person may have children who were born in this country, a spouse who is a U.S. citizen, even a business with many U.S. citizen employees. 
   This legislation returns to judges the discretion they had before 1996. There are some cases where deportation is the appropriate sanction. There are other cases where it is clearly not. 
   Let's let judges look at the facts and decide instead of taking over their role and insisting on a one-size-fits-all system of justice. 
   Let's not treat someone who stole a car as a teenager, served his time, and has since become a law-abiding productive adult, the same way we treat someone who has committed violent crimes over and over again. 
   Let's also not lock someone up for life because they have the bad fortune to come from a country that won't take them back. Long-term detention is an extremely powerful judicial tool. 
   We ask that the INS use this action only when necessary--not as a first option. 
   This is a very difficult issue to advocate. These are criminals. I absolutely believe they should be punished. They should fully repay their debt to society through incarceration, monetary restitution, community service, or any other sanction. 
   Judges and juries decide these punishments, and the legal immigrant should fully comply with each and every decision. However, from that point on, they should be allowed to start over. 
   As Americans, we cannot and should not re-punish them. 
   What we are doing now is locking up everyone: car radio thieves, check bouncers, and others, all mixed in with the most dangerous felons. Everyone should get an equal change to plead their case. 
   Experienced judges should have the discretion to keep together American families who now face the prospect of lifetime separation. I do not want a mass release of legal immigrants who pose a threat to our society. 
   However--I do want fairness and discretion restored to all those who legally live in the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the congressional fellow in my office, Miss Terri Ceravolo, be granted privileges of the floor during duration of this debate on S. 2045. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Senator. 
   Mr. President, Senator REED from Rhode Island has done an outstanding job of bringing to our attention the plight of those 10,000 Liberians, many of whom are his friends in Rhode Island. I want to talk about another group of about 10,000. That is a group of Haitians. There are many more than 10,000 Haitians who have come to the United States in the last decade, decade and a half, fleeing first the dictatorship of the Duvaliers, and then the military dictatorship that succeeded the Duvaliers. Most of those Haitians came by boat and most had no documentation. They had no papers of any type when they came into the country. 
   Under the immigration law we passed in 1998, subject to one additional complexity--which I will talk about at another time--which we are trying to get resolved with this legislation, they will be entitled to make their case for legal residence in the United States. I think at this point it is important we indicate that in virtually every instance we are talking about, we are not talking about granting a legal status and, certainly, not granting citizenship. What we are talking about is giving people a chance to apply, and that their application will be accepted and given appropriate due process and consideration. Without the kind of provisions we are trying to accomplish in this Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, they can't even submit the papers to start the process. 
   Let me go back to the 10,000 Haitians who arrived by air. The irony is that they tended to be people who were under a particular threat of death or serious abuse and persecution. They felt the necessity not to be able to wait for a boat but to get out as quickly as possible. In order to get on the airplane, they had to go to somebody who counterfeits passports and other documentation that was required to get on the plane and get out of Haiti in the 1980s and early part of the 1990s. When they arrived in the United States they were not without documents. But they had false, counterfeit documents. 
   If you can believe it, under our current immigration law, we make a distinction between a person who is flying--and arguably in a severe case of persecution--with false documents and is denied the right to apply for legal status, whereas a person who comes with no documents at all is allowed. 
   This legislation will correct what I think is one of the most indefensible examples of unfairness to people who essentially are in the same condition  but have a minor technical differentiation--in this case, with no documents, OK; and, with false or counterfeit documents precluded from the opportunity to apply. We would eliminate that and allow both the no-document Haitians and the counterfeit-document Haitians the opportunity to submit their case and attempt to persuade the INS to justify granting some legal status in the United States. 
   They have 10,000--what are referred to as the ``airport Haitians''--immigrants with all of the characteristics that the Senator talked about before. They have lived here a long time. Many of them have established families. Either they have U.S. citizen children or they have become positive members of a community. They have all of the bases to be seriously considered for legal status, but they are being denied even the opportunity to apply because of this peculiarly perverse unfairness in our immigration law, which this legislation--if we had a chance to take it up, debate it, and vote on it--has the chance to rectify. 
   I appreciate my good friend, Senator REID, giving me this opportunity to ask him the question. 
   Does the Senator think we ought to seize this moment and correct the unfairness that Senator REED has pointed out with the Liberians--I suggest an equal number of Haitians--in this Nation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, with respect and admiration, I offer a tribute to my colleague from Florida, The Honorable CONNIE MACK. 
   Senator MACK has served his state and nation with distinction, and I have been honored to serve with him in this institution to represent the people of Florida. CONNIE and Priscilla Mack have long been our neighbors in Washington; they will always remain our friends. 
   I was first elected to the United States Senate in 1986, CONNIE MACK was elected in 1988. As colleagues in the Senate, we set out to work together on behalf of Florida. 
   Senator MACK and I are loyal members of different political parties. We don't always vote the same, nor do we agree on every issue. But, as Senator MACK prepares to leave this institution, I can say with pride that we achieved our goal of working together--and our staffs have worked together--on behalf of Floridians. 
   In offering this personal salute to Senator MACK, I also wish to praise the dedication and professionalism of his staff. On behalf of my family and my staff, I thank Senator MACK's staff--past and present--and wish them continued success. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for up to 15 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   September 25, 1999: Salvatore Bonaventure, 34, Detroit, MI; Darnell Butler, 26, Baltimore, MD; Rodney Campbell, 35, Tulsa, OK; Lewis Crouch, 68, Gary, IN; Roy Dunbar, 31, Chicago, IL; Zachery Gordon, Jr., 25, Baltimore, MD; Gordon Green, 42, Philadelphia, PA; Dominic Hunt, 21, Baltimore, MD; Richard Love, 15, St. Louis, MO; Gerardo R. Martinez, 29, Chicago, IL; Jesus Revron, 32, Philadelphia, PA; Duane Russell, 26, Minneapolis, MN; Fabian Venancio, 41, Tulsa, OK; Unidentified Female, 15, Chicago, IL; Unidentified Male, 46, Long Beach, CA; Unidentified Male, 48, Long Beach, CA; Unidentified Male, 31, San Jose, CA. 
   One of the victims of gun violence I mentioned, 31-year-old Roy Dunbar of Chicago, was an art teacher who worked at his local boys and girls club. Every day at that club, more than 300 kids participated in athletics and other after-school activities. Known as the ``professor'' at the club, Roy tried to steer youngsters away from gangs, violence and drugs. One year ago today, Roy was driving home when a gang member he knew from the neighborhood flagged him down. Roy expressed concern for the boy and encouraged him to stop associating with gangs. Evidently, the boy was insulted by Roy's words because the boy pulled a gun and shot at Roy until the gun was out of ammunition. 
   Another victim, 15-year-old Richard Love of St. Louis, died after he was shot in the abdomen by two of his friends while they were playing with his .22 caliber pistol. 
   Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
   September 22, 1999: Telly Butts, 22, Gary, IN; Ray Clay, 40, Detroit, MI; Emmitt Crawford, 54, Oklahoma City, OK; Berneal Fuller, 27, Gary, IN; Ricardo Griffin, 22, Detroit, MI; Benjamin Hall, 45, New Orleans, LA; Desean Knox, 14, Gary, IN; Randy Ladurini, 29, Minneapolis, MN; William McClary, 29, Detroit, MI; Yonatan Osorio, 17, Dallas, TX; Victor Richardson, 28, Denver, CO; Marice Simpson, 26, New Orleans, LA. 
   September 23, 1999: Domingo Alvarez, 63, Miami, FL; William Belle, 70, Miami, FL; James Bonds, 43, Baltimore, MD; Peter A. Cary, 50, Seattle, WA; Jean Paul Henderson, 20, New Orleans, LA; Alfred Hunter, 26, Detroit, MI; Kenneth Ponder, Sr., 27, Louisville, KY; Jason L. Ward, 28, Oklahoma City, OK; Eric D. Williams, 24, Chicago, IL. 
   September 24, 1999: Dudley R. Becker, 52, Seattle, WA; Sher Bolter, 57, Louisville, KY; Barry Bell, 27, Oakland, CA; Alexander Brown, 33, Philadelphia, PA; Arletha Brown, 32, Toledo, OH; Ryan V. Coleman, 29, Chicago, IL; Teddy Garvin, 17, Washington, DC; James Hojnacki, 34, Toledo, OH; Michael Irish, 55, Denver, CO; Dianne Jefferson-Nicolas, 53, Chicago, IL; Odel Norris, 20, Philadelphia, PA; Eric Leron Martin, San Francisco, CA; Paul Rexrode, 34, Baltimore, MD; Aaron Walker, 18, Washington, DC; Unidentified Male, 14, Chicago, IL. 
   We cannot sit back and allow this senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, for the past 2 weeks, my colleagues have heard me speak regarding the need to add a prescription medication benefit to Medicare. I indicated that in my judgment the most fundamental reform for Medicare is to shift it from a program which, since its inception, has focused on illness and accident--that is, providing services after one becomes sick enough, generally, to go into the hospital or has suffered an accident that requires treatment and hospitalization--and move to a system that also emphasizes prevention; that is, to maintain the highest state of good health and not wait until the state of good health has been destroyed. 
   If we are to adopt that fundamental shift, it will necessitate that Medicare provide a prescription drug benefit. Why? Because virtually every regimen that is prescribed to stabilize a condition or reverse a condition involves prescription drugs. So a fundamental component of reforming Medicare is to provide prescription drugs. 
   I have also spoken about the skyrocketing drug prices which are now affecting virtually all of our older citizens. 
   Today, in my fifth and final statement in this series, I want our colleagues to hear from real people, the people who are affected by the decisions we are about to make. These stories remind us that we have little time to waste. 
   Unfortunately, some of the voices I am going to present are probably going to be too far gone in their need for prescription drugs and in their personal circumstances to benefit by a program which, under the most optimistic timetable, would not commence until October 1, 2002 and, under other proposals, would be even 2 years beyond that in terms of being available through the Medicare program as a universal benefit. 
   While we are arguing as to whether to put a prescription medication benefit into effect and start the clock running towards the time when it will actually be available, people are breaking bones. They are going blind. While we are debating which party would benefit  from the passage of a prescription drug program this year, people are in pain. 
   This is not a hyperbole. This is not rhetoric. This is reality for hundreds of thousands of seniors from every State and from every political persuasion. This is a 911 call. If we fail to pass a prescription drug benefit this session, if we fail to start the clock running towards the time when this benefit will be available to all Medicare beneficiaries, we will have ignored their pleas for help. 
   I appreciate being provided with a few moments to share some of these voices of pain. I am also painfully aware that the stories I am going to tell are not unique. They are common. They have become near cliches here in Washington. I would wager that every one of us has a constituent who has written us about splitting pills to make prescriptions last longer. My guess is that every Member of this Chamber has heard from someone who has to make that difficult choice between food or prescription drugs. And we hear from doctors handing out free samples of medicine whenever they can get them and begging for help on behalf of their patients. 
   We get letters describing situations as ``desperate'' and from numerous people who tell us they are at wits' end. The tragedy is that we have been telling these stories for so long they are beginning to sound like nothing more than 30-second TV 
   clips. The fault is ours for failing to act. These are not 30-second sound bits. These are real stories of our friends, our neighbors, in many cases our parents and grandparents. Someday they could be all of us. 
   These are people such as Nancy Francis of Daytona Beach, FL. Ms. Francis used to be able to get the medication she needs through Medicaid as a medically indigent older person. Then the Government did her a great favor. It raised her monthly Social Security check. Because of that raise, she is now too rich by all of $6.78 a month, to qualify for Medicaid. This $6.78 leaves her fully dependent upon Medicare for health care financing. 
   Medicare is a good system with a gaping hole. It does not cover prescription drugs. Medicaid, the program for the medically indigent, paid for nine prescriptions Ms. Francis takes in order to stay active and well. Medicare pays for none. Ms. Francis can put every penny of that $6.78 a month towards her prescriptions and it won't make a dent. So for some months, Ms. Francis just doesn't buy any prescription drugs. Then she waits and hopes she will be able to stay alive long enough for help to arrive. 
   Then there is Mary Skidmore of New Port Richey, FL. Mrs. Skidmore worked for 20 years renting fishing boats. Her late husband worked on the railroad. Now she thinks she may have to get another job. Mrs. Skidmore is 87 years old. She has two artificial knees. No one, she says, will hire her. She needs a job to pay for a new hearing aid. Without a hearing aid, she cannot hear sermons at her church on Sunday. But with $300 a month in prescription medication bills, a hearing aid is a luxury that Mrs. Skidmore cannot afford. 
   She takes medication for her heart, cholesterol, bones, and blood pressure. Giving up this medicine is not an option. It is, in her words, ``what keeps me going.'' 
   Mrs. Skidmore's medication bills have even kept her from marrying her boyfriend. He has enough to pay for the utilities in the home they share, but not much else. If she marries him, she will lose her former husband's railroad pension--a pension that she counts on to survive. 
   Marsaille Gilmore of Williston, FL, is a little bit luckier. Between Social Security and a little bit of income from investments, she and her husband can usually pay for the $300 to $400 per month she spends on prescription medication. Sometimes they even have a little left over to go out to dinner--but not to the movies. Mrs. Gilmore says the movies are too expensive. 
   Some months, the Gilmores are not so lucky. Recently, their truck broke down. It is now in the shop, and things are stretched pretty tight. Sometimes things are so tight that the Gilmores think about going to Mexico to stock up for half the price on the very same medications they now buy in Williston. 
   Remember Elaine Kett? I told her story last week. Elaine is 77 years old. She spends nearly half her income on medication. This chart indicates the number of prescription drugs which Mrs. Kett fills every month. The total is $837.78 a month or $10,053.36 a year. That figure is almost exactly half of Mrs. Kett's total annual income. Her prescriptions are helping to keep her alive. How ironic then that in her plea for help she writes that the cost of medication is ``killing her.'' It is the very thing she depends upon for life; it is the source of her quality of life. 
   Dorothy Bokish is in a similar trap. She pays $188 in rent each month and $162 for her prescription drugs. That leaves her with $238 a month for food, heat, air-conditioning, and gas. It doesn't leave much for her to buy gifts for her grandchildren or to take herself to an occasional show. I shudder to think what would happen should something go wrong--or, if I may say, more wrong--for Mrs. Bokish. 
   What would she have to give up if her water heater broke or a storm knocked out a window in her home? What does she have left to give up? What some seniors are considering giving up is unconscionable. 
   A central Florida man told his family, which is helping to buy his medication so his wife can afford to continue to take hers, he is considering giving up his medication so that his wife can live. If he does so, he will certainly die. 
   Another Florida senior has gone through two grueling heart surgeries and has been prescribed medication to stave off a third. But he can't afford to fill the prescription. He says he thinks sometimes he would rather die than go through surgery again. He says that sometimes the struggle to survive is just too much. 
   I am profoundly embarrassed when I tell these stories. I am embarrassed that in these times of unprecedented prosperity as a nation, we have not come together to find some way to ease this pain. These seniors and countless others wait and wait and wait. There are those who now say we have to wait until another election to even begin the process of providing meaningful prescription drug coverage. Many of them won't be able to wait until the next month, much less until another extended period of indecision here. 
   The time to act is now. This is quite literally a matter of life and death. It is also quite literally a challenge to our Nation's basic sense of decency and values. It is my hope that before this session of the Congress concludes, we will have responded to the highest values of our American tradition. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. I express my deepest appreciation and gratitude to Senator SMITH for the great leadership he has provided to the Environment and Public Works Committee in many areas but especially for what he has done for the Florida Everglades, America's Everglades. 
   Senator SMITH, shortly after he assumed the chairmanship of the committee, after the untimely death of our friend and colleague Senator Chafee, made one of his first acts as chairman of the committee coming to the American Everglades. He did not just come. He absorbed the American Everglades through a series of briefings, field visits, and then concluded with a very long hearing before the annual Everglades Conference. 
   At that hearing, Senator SMITH gave a forum to all the diverse points of view as to what should be appropriate national policy as it relates to America's Everglades. He gave comfort to the people there that these decisions were going to be made in a rational,  thoughtful manner. That contributed immeasurably to the bringing together of all of those groups behind the plan which is before us today. I take this opportunity to thank the Presiding Officer's neighbor from New Hampshire for the tremendous leadership he has given. 
   Earlier today I was listening to National Public Radio where there was some grousing about the fact that bipartisanship seems to be a lost component of the congressional process. It is not lost on the Senator from New Hampshire because he has displayed it at its very best. On behalf of Senator MACK, I express our appreciation for that fact. 
   The legislation before us today represents an unprecedented compromise by national and State environmental groups, agriculture and industry. These diverse interests are united in support of the Everglades restoration bill, title VI of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. This is the legislation we will have the opportunity to pass through the Senate today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that immediately following my remarks, a letter from the Environmental Protection Agency Administrator, Ms. Browner; Secretary of Interior, Mr. Babbitt; and Assistant Secretary for Civil Works, Mr. Westphal; expressing their support for this legislation also be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The Everglades is sick. This sickness has been long coming. 
   It was approximately 120 years ago that man looked at the Everglades and realized that it was different, different than almost anything he or she had seen before, and seeing this phenomenon of the Everglades, made a commitment. The commitment was to turn the unique into the pedestrian by converting the Everglades into something that would look more like man and woman had seen in other areas of this country or other areas of the world. 
   The result of that has been 120 years of an effort to change the Everglades, to convert the singular into the common. The results of that 120 years have brought the Everglades to their current position. This cannot be cured without the serious surgery that we are about to sanction by the passage of this legislation. 
   Since the passage of the central and south Florida flood control project in 1948, placing the Everglades in the responsibility of the Corps of Engineers at the direction of Congress, nearly half of the original Everglades have been drained or otherwise altered. According to the National Parks and Conservation Association, the parks and the preserves of the Everglades, of whichever Everglades National Park is the jewel, are among the 10 most endangered national parks in the country. 
   As Florida's Governor in 1983, I launched an effort known as ``Save Our Everglades.'' Its purpose was to revitalize this precious ecosystem. The goal was simple. We wanted to turn back time. We wanted the Everglades to look and function more as they had at the end of the 19th century than they did in 1983. 
   In 1983, restoring the natural health and function of this precious system seemed to be a distant dream. But after 17 years of bipartisan progress in the context of a strong Federal-State partnership, we now stand on the brink of this dream becoming a reality. 
   I will speak for a moment about this unprecedented Federal-State partnership. I often compare this unique partnership to a marriage. If both partners respect each other and pledge to work through any challenges together, if they are willing to grow together, the marriage will be strong and successful. 
   Today, we are again celebrating the strength of that marriage. This legislation contains several provisions which were born out of the respect that sustains this marriage. 
   It offers assurances to both the Federal and the State governments on the use and distribution of water in the Everglades ecosystem. 
   It requires that State government pay half the costs of construction. It requires the Federal Government to pay half the costs of operation and maintenance. Everglades restoration cannot work unless the executive branch, Congress, and State government move forward together. The legislation before us today accomplishes that goal. 
   The legislation before us today represents not only unprecedented compromise and partnership but also unprecedented complexity. Just as the Panama Canal, which this Congress authorized almost a hundred years ago, was the first of its kind, so is Everglades restoration. It is the largest, most complex environmental restoration project not only in the history of the United States of America but in the history of the world. 
   The lessons we will learn here will be exported to other projects throughout America and throughout the world. I trust that today the Senate will make the right choice. Today will be the day the Senate has an opportunity to make  a bipartisan commitment to an Everglades restoration plan that reflects a true partnership between the State and Federal governments. If we accomplish the historic goal of restoring America's Everglades, then today will be one of the most precious memories of our children and grandchildren. 
   In the words of President Lyndon Johnson:  
   If future generations are to remember us with gratitude rather than contempt, we must leave them more than the miracles of technology. We must leave them a glimpse of the world as it was in the beginning, not just after we got through with it.  
   Today is the day we have an opportunity to leave a glimpse of America's Everglades as they were when we first found them for future generations--beautiful, serene, a river of grass. 
   Madam President, we have commended a number of people who have worked hard to bring us to this day. I want to take this opportunity to commend members of the individual and committee staffs in the Senate who have played an immeasurable role in the success we will soon celebrate. Many people have worked with Senator SMITH, and I want to particularly recognize Chelsea Henderson, Tom Gibson, and Stephanie Daigle for their work on behalf of the American Everglades. With Senator BAUCUS, I thank Jo-Ellen Darcy and Peter Washburn. With Senator MACK, I thank C.K. Lee. And from my office, I thank Catherine Cyr, who has done work of negotiation that would do the most experienced diplomat honor. 
   So it is my hope we will grasp the opportunity that is before us and commence a long adventure--as long an adventure as is required to overturn 120 years of attempts to convert the Everglades into the common, so that we can leave to our children and grandchildren an American Everglades which salutes the highest standards of the words ``unique,'' ``special,'' and ``unprecedented.'' Those are the words that properly describe this marvelous system of nature. 
   Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I would join my colleague from Florida, Mr. MACK in clarifying our understanding. I agree with his remarks, and make the further point that the Plan authorized by this bill will capture a large percentage of the water lost to tide or lost through evapotranspiration for use by both the built and natural systems, with the natural system having priority over the water generated by the Plan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I agree with the remarks by my colleague from Florida, and I would add that, in my view, the resolution makes clear that--once the conveyance process is complete--the Secretary of the Army should work closely with the parties to which the property is conveyed to ensure compatibility with the surrounding environment and the restoration plan. Further, the resolution requests the Secretary of the Army report to Congress in two years on any steps taken to ensure this compatibility and any recommendations for consideration by the Congress. While this is laudable, and has my full support, this resolution should not be read to mean the Air Force must add any new hurdles to the existing base closure and disposal process. 
   I notice my colleague, Senator INHOFE, on the floor. I would ask my colleague for his thoughts on the Homestead matter and ask him if it is his understanding that the base closure law clearly sets out the process for disposing surplus military facilities and that this resolution does not alter or amend that law? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. Mr. President, I thank my colleague and chairman of Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, who has given outstanding leadership to this entire legislation, the Water Resources Development Act of 2000, and has been a particularly thoughtful student of the Everglades restoration. 
   I rise in strong opposition to the amendment proposed by my colleague from Virginia. To put what we are about in some context, we are talking about a unique partnership between a State and the Federal Government for the protection of one of the world's treasures. The Florida Everglades has been designated by the United Nations as a world heritage site, one of the few places on the planet that has been designated such because of its unique features, features that have a global importance. 
   Everglades National Park, which is just a small portion of the overall Everglades system, is the second largest national park in the continental United States. This restoration program will be the most significant and the most expensive environmental restoration project ever attempted anywhere in the world. 
   This is going to be a world laboratory for how we will restore damaged environmental systems, both within the United States and elsewhere on the globe. 
   This has been a bipartisan effort. It has been an effort that has now been underway for the better part of three decades --bipartisan in the sense that it has been supported by Republican Presidents and Governors, Congresses, and State legislatures; and Democratic Presidents, Governors, Congresses, and State legislatures. 
   It is a proposal that is much in the nature of a marriage. It is a relationship in which both partners must respect each other, pledge to work through their challenges together, and, thus, build a strong and sustaining relationship. 
   The legislation before us today offers a balance between the partners of that marriage. It requires the State to pay 50 percent of the construction cost of this project. It requires the State to pay 50 percent of the $7.8 billion, which is the estimated cost of construction of this project over the next 30 to 40 years. 
   It requires the Federal Government to pay 50 percent of the operation and maintenance costs of the project as it is completed. 
   Cost sharing for operation and maintenance represents a responsible action by the Federal Government to protect the Federal taxpayers' investment in the restoration of the Everglades. 
   Why is this a responsible action? It is a responsible action and is also a recognition of a reality which differentiates this project from other Federal public works projects; that the major beneficiary of this project is the natural system, and the natural system is owned in large part by the Federal Government. 
   To repeat, the principal beneficiary of this project will be enormous Federal land tracts in the affected area. Thus, the Federal Government has an ongoing interest; and we suggest, as does the committee of jurisdiction, the administration, and the State of Florida, that that large Federal investment and responsibility warrants an ongoing Federal-State shared role in the operation and maintenance of the project once it is completed. 
   Some of the projects that are in this plan, such as the wastewater reuse projects, which have some of the highest estimated cost of operation and maintenance, are included primarily for the benefit of Biscayne National Park, Florida Bay, a significant part of Everglades National Park, and the National Marine Sanctuary. The perspective that I share is not mine alone or not parochially Florida's alone. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The first letter is signed by a broad coalition of national environmental groups, including the National Audubon Society, the National Parks Conservation Association, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, the World Wildlife Fund, as well as environmental groups within Florida. 
   This letter states:  
   In addition, approval of the [Warner] amendment 
   would ..... severely jeopardize the likelihood of enacting Everglades Restoration legislation this year. ..... 
   The second letter is from a broad coalition of agricultural and industrial representatives. It states:  
   The Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan is primarily a plan to restore and protect Federal properties.  
   It also states:  
   The coalition of Florida agriculture, water utilities, and homebuilders is convinced that without Federal participation in the costs of operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and rehabilitation activities associated with the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, Everglades restoration will never be implemented.  
   My colleague, Senator MACK, will soon be inserting into the RECORD a letter from Florida's Governor, Jeb Bush, which will state, in part:  
   Not only is this partnership formula fiscally and politically prudent, it is also critical to maintaining the diverse and broad-based support that the bill before you has earned.  
   Mr. President, you and others in this body may ask why there is near unanimous agreement that operation and maintenance costs must be a shared cost of this project. What is it that differentiates this project from other public works projects? 
   Let me suggest the following. First, to quote from the bill itself:  
   The overarching objective of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan is the restoration, preservation, and protection of the South Florida ecosystem while providing for other water-related needs of the region.  
   Let me read a portion of that again:  
   The overarching objective of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan is the restoration, preservation, and protection of the South Florida ecosystem. .....  
   What is that system that we are about to protect and preserve? It is essentially a Federal system.  
   First, it is an enormous marine sanctuary that runs from the lower part of the Florida peninsula to some 150 miles to the Dry Tortugas, an area with the only living corral reef area in the continental United States. 
   It is also four units of the National Park System: The Everglades National Park, which I indicated earlier is the second largest national park in the continental United States; Biscayne National Park; the Dry Tortugas National Park; and the Big Cypress Natural Preserve. Those great Federal ownership areas are going to be primary beneficiaries of the restoration of the Everglades; finally, 16 national wildlife refuges in the area that will be affected by the Everglades restoration, from those at the upper edges of the Everglades system to those throughout the Florida Keys. 
   Once constructed, this project will be operating, in large part, for the benefit of the natural system, which is in Federal ownership. 
   As the primary beneficiary of this project, the Federal Government should have a continued interest and financial role in seeing that its goals are achieved through appropriate implementation. 
   Once the Federal Government is a full and equal partner in the cost of operating this project, it will also be able to assure that the project continues to be operated for the benefit of the natural system in Federal ownership. 
   Without this participation in operation and maintenance, the Federal Government would be, in effect, abdicating its responsibility to the American taxpayers to protect the investment which they are going to make in restoration of the Everglades, which they have already made in the acquisition of these enormous Federal interests. 
   Another important fact, in reviewing Senator WARNER's proposal, is the cost-sharing for the Everglades restoration project. I did not hear this very significant fact mentioned by any of the three previous speakers. 
   The traditional Federal public works project is financed 65 percent by the Federal Government, 35 percent by the local sponsor, whoever that might be. 
   There are several and significant environmental and ecosystem restoration projects which contain that very cost sharing in the bill that we have before us, the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. 
   I draw your attention to page 118, line 7: A project for environmental restoration at Upper Newport Bay Harbor in California; 65-percent Federal, 35-percent local sponsor. 
   On page 121, line 23, there is a project for ecosystem restoration at Wolf River in Memphis, TN; 65-percent Federal, 35-percent local sponsor. 
   On page 122, line 3, there is a project for environmental restoration at Jackson Hole, WY, 65-percent Federal, 35-percent local sponsor. 
   I point out these examples in this very bill that is before us today, not because they are unusual but because in fact they are the norm. Sixty-five percent is the normal share that the Federal Government pays for a project in the Water Resources Development Act. 
   But for this project, one of the largest projects of its type in our Nation's history, the State of Florida is paying 50 percent--not 35 percent, but 50 percent--of the cost of construction. 
   To my knowledge--and I ask the proponents of this amendment if they have information to the contrary--I know of no other local sponsor for an environmental restoration project who is paying 50 percent of the cost of the project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am glad to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That happens to be the size of the Everglades system. This project encompasses the Everglades system, an integrated environmental system, the totality of which creates the environments that sustain all of these great Federal investments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. No. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. From Orlando to the tip of Florida would be approximately 35 to 40 percent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would appreciate the opportunity to complete my remarks, and then I would like to respond specifically to the statement relative to the nature of the projects, the Federal purposes that they will play, and the appropriateness of the overall arrangement of a 50-percent State share in construction and then a 50-percent Federal share in operation and maintenance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I will return to discuss the specific issue of municipal water. Let me complete the arithmetic of the analysis I was doing. 
   On an annual basis, the difference between the State of Florida contributing 50 percent as opposed to the norm of 35 percent is approximately a $35-million-a-year savings during the construction period of this project, some 30 to 40 years, for the Federal Government. If the Federal Government were to take that $35-million-a-year savings and invest it, even at a conservative rate of interest of 5 percent, over the period of this project, that would produce a total of approximately $1.8 billion. That is the savings plus the interest earned on those savings to the Federal Government. That $1.8 billion would pay the cost of operation and maintenance of this project to approximately the year 2050. 
   We are, for the first half century of the 21st century, going to be saving the Federal Government an enormous amount of money by the State paying at the rate of 50 percent rather than 35 percent, and those funds will go substantially towards meeting these ongoing operation and maintenance costs that the Federal Government will share on a 50-50 basis. 
   The amendment Senator WARNER has offered fails to recognize any of these distinct characteristics, the nature of the Federal interest to be protected, the continuing interest of the Federal Government in how its capital investment is implemented, and, finally, the fact that because of a much more generous and forthcoming State share of the construction cost, the Federal Government is saved substantial funds. 
   The Senator from Virginia raised the question that there are other projects. He specifically talked about wastewater projects. There are no wastewater projects in here. There are wastewater reuse projects which are one of the areas being done precisely to protect Federal interests. They are not wastewater systems that are going to be serving a local municipality. They are wastewater systems to purify the water before it goes into the Biscayne Bay National Park and before it goes into the Florida Bay component of the Everglades National Park or before it goes into the National Marine Sanctuary in the Florida Keys. 
   This is not a wastewater treatment system that a municipality would have. These are systems to protect the quality of water in order to protect the quality of the Federal investment. As I said earlier, these are some of the most expensive of the operation and maintenance costs this project will generate.  
   The amendment fails to reflect the fact that this is a marriage, a marriage between the State and Federal Government, and that that marriage is necessary to assure the plan's success, a true union where each partner respects the other and makes a commitment as equals. Everglades restoration won't work unless the executive branch, Congress, and the State government move forward hand in hand. 
   We are about to make one of the most important decisions that this Congress will make. Obviously, it is a project that has enormous personal interest to me because of my personal long association with the Everglades and my deep appreciation of the qualities it represents. But this will be an opportunity for the Congress to commit itself to one of the great ventures in terms of environmental restoration and protection in our Nation's history. It is a project that I suggest Members of Congress will look back upon later in their lives and careers with pride that they were part of this effort. 
   It is a project in which we are asking that there be a long-term commitment with the State of Florida. On the concerns that were expressed about the possibility that additional changes might be called for, or additional costs incurred, I underscore, every one of those costs is going to be shared on a 50-50 basis. So we have a partner in this project who is going to be just as concerned about achieving the result and doing so in the most cost-effective way as we share those concerns. 
   So this is legislation which is truly historic. It is legislation which will lead us down the path toward Everglades restoration--a goal which our Nation has shared for many decades, a goal in which we can play an important role today in seeing that it becomes reality. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I repeat what I said before. The purpose of these water reuse facilities, as I indicated earlier, and the nature of these reuse facilities is one of the areas on which we are going to be doing some preliminary experimentation and demonstration before committing to what the ultimate formula will be. 
   The purpose of these is to take water which has been polluted in large part because of the Federal projects that have been in place since it was authorized in 1948 and to clean that water to a point that it will no longer serve to damage the important Federal investment. 
   As an example, in the middle of the Everglades there will be a variety of what are called stormwater treatment areas constructed. These are not mechanical, but biological methods of cleaning the water that comes off the middle part of the Everglades so that when it gets down into the area of Everglades National Park, it will meet the standards that will avoid the water-causing adverse effects in the park. 
   At the present time, the injection of inappropriate water quality into Everglades National Park has contributed substantially to a dramatic fall in the natural wildlife, fisheries, and fauna of Everglades National Park, and it has contributed to the development of extensive exotic, nonnatural plants in the area. 
   The purpose of these water reuse and treatment areas--most of which are not the kind of sewage treatment plants we think about with concrete in place where water comes and is mechanically treated and then discharged--is to deal with natural water flow systems--not from municipal areas; they are largely going to be biological and not mechanical. And the purpose of all of this is to achieve a level of water quality, the principal beneficiary of which will be these Federal landowners. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The source of pollution is largely from a previously authorized Federal project; two, the nature of the cleanup in Florida is not of the type that surrounds the Chesapeake Bay. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to speak today about the Adaptive Assessment and Monitoring section of this legislation with my colleagues from Florida and New Hampshire. This is one of the most critical aspects of this legislation which builds in a feedback loop for the Army Corps and the South Florida Water Management District and ultimately, the Congress, to incorporate new information into Plan authorization, design and execution. I would encourage the Corps, under the authority and appropriations provided for the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan [CERP], to coordinate with appropriately qualified outside institutions, both nationally and internationally, to conduct independent scientific assessments and monitoring as part of the Adaptive Assessment and Monitoring Program. I also believe that one of the most important elements of Everglades restoration will be technology transfer to other ecosystems. I recommend that the Corps continue its partnerships with appropriately qualified outside institutions, both nationally and internationally, to distribute lessons-learned from this experience. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, for the past 3 days I have been discussing the need to reform Medicare and the fundamental reform of shifting Medicare from being a program that focuses on sickness and dealing with disease and the consequences of accidents after they happen, to a health care system that focuses on wellness and maintaining the highest possible quality of life. I pointed out that an essential ingredient of any wellness strategy is prescription drugs. Prescription drugs are a modality in virtually every form of therapy which is designed to reverse disease conditions or to manage those conditions. 
   Yesterday, I talked about the fact that the prescription drug benefit for senior Americans should be provided through the Medicare program. It is the program which the seniors themselves have indicated over and over that they believe in, they trust, they have confidence in, and that they would like it to be the program through which this additional benefit would be added to all the other benefits that are available through Medicare. They would also like prescription drugs to be available through Medicare. 
   In the context of the discussion of our colleague from California, I must point out that while the seniors are saying they want to have a prescription drug benefit administered through Medicare, the Governors of the States are saying they do not want to have the responsibility for administering a prescription drug benefit; it is not our job nor should it be our financial responsibility to be involved in prescription drugs for a group of Americans who have since 1965 been covered by a national program and not a State-by-State program. 
   I would like to talk about the issue of cost and which alternative before us has the best opportunity to serve not only the interests of the 39 million seniors but all Americans in terms of injecting some control over an out-of-control, spiraling increase in the cost of pharmaceutical drugs. 
   Let me use as an illustration what has happened to a constituent of mine, Mrs. Elaine Kett. Mrs. Kett is a 77-year-old widow from Vero Beach, FL. She lives on a fixed income of approximately $20,000 a year, which means that her income is above the level that would provide benefits for her under the kind of plan that my Teutonic cousin from Texas has indicated he would support. 
   Like many of my constituents, Mrs. Kett sent me a list of all the prescription drugs that her physician has indicated are medically necessary for her wellness and quality of life. These are the lists of Mrs. Elaine Kett's drugs. As you will see when you add up all the costs of the drugs which she used in 1999, the total cost was $10,053.36. Mrs. Kett has already said her income is $20,000 a year. Fifty cents out of every dollar of Mrs. Kett's income was consumed in paying for the prescription drugs necessary for her life, wellness, and quality. 
   In her letter, Mrs. Kett writes:  
   This is killing me because my income is just a bit more than double the cost of these drugs.  
   Then she adds a postscript.  
   P.S.--Someone said these are the golden years, only the gold is going into someone else's pocket.  
   There are millions of Americans just like Mrs. Kett. Passing a real prescription drug benefit to cover Mrs. Kett and all Medicare beneficiaries should be a priority for this session 
   of the Congress. 
   Today, we will examine one of the key reasons why so many seniors are unable to purchase the medications which their physicians have said are medically necessary. The reason is cost. 
   Prescription drug prices are growing so quickly that seniors and, I would argue, most Americans cannot keep up. In July, Families USA released a report that concluded:  
   The growing reliance on prescription drugs by the elderly and the mounting costs of those drugs is a crisis for America's senior citizens.   
   The elderly already pay a significant portion of prescription drugs expenditures out of their pockets. Today, many seniors are without any prescription drug coverage. 
   The traditional ways in which seniors have been covered for prescription drugs--which have included employers who provided those benefits to their retirees through the Medicaid program if they were medically indigent or through Medigap policies if they could afford the often exorbitant costs, and through HMOs which provided prescription drugs as a benefit--are constricting in terms of who they will cover and what they will cover. 
   So every week, more seniors are placed in the position of either having to cover their entire prescription drug costs or a larger proportion of that cost. 
   Today, almost one out of three seniors lacks any prescription drug coverage. Over 50 percent of Medicare beneficiaries lack coverage at some point during any given year. For those fortunate enough to have prescription drug coverage, the coverage is diminishing. 
   Thus, unless seniors are assured of prescription drug coverage through Medicare, many will find that needed medications are unavailable. 
   If it is true that the lack of prescription drug coverage has reached a crisis level for seniors, then why have we not yet enacted a real, affordable, and comprehensive prescription drug benefit under Medicare? 
   The answer, I suspect, includes the fact that the pharmaceutical companies may have erected an effective blockade to the enactment of a prescription drug benefit through Medicare. 
   In fact, the watchdog group, ``Public Citizen,'' reports that drug companies spent $83.6 million in lobbying costs this year alone. 
   I would suspect from looking at the television ads run by the industry that much of those moneys have been spent on lobbying efforts against the passage of a universal, affordable Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   Why do the pharmaceutical companies cringe at a Medicare prescription drug proposal? It is because they know the power of the marketplace. As long as 39 million senior Americans have to deal, one by one, and as long as almost one-third of those have to deal without any assistance from any other source in the purchase of their prescription drugs, the market will not function. There is no effective purchaser-seller relationship. 
   What we do know is that when there is an effective market, prices can be restrained. We know it through the Veterans' Administration, which is able to purchase the exact same prescription drugs Mrs. Kett has been purchasing, but at substantially lower prices because they are using the power of a large purchaser for the benefit of American veterans. State Medicaid programs know this because they are using the power of their large purchases for the benefit of the million medically indigent within their States. HMOs know the power of the marketplace because they purchase their prescription drugs on a wholesale basis and then share those benefits with HMO beneficiaries. 
   With or without the support of the pharmaceutical companies, we must seek relief for seniors who are the victims of this crisis. The cost of prescription drugs is skyrocketing. We owe it to our seniors to examine the reasons and then to act. 
   In 1999, the prices of the 50 prescription drugs most used by older Americans increased 2 to 3 times the rate of overall inflation. In 1 year, the 50 most used prescription drugs by American seniors increased by 2 to 3 times the rate of overall inflation. 
   The numbers speak for themselves: Lorazepam, used to treat conditions including anxiety, convulsions, and Parkinson's disease, rose by 409 percent, 27 times the rate of inflation, from January 1994 through January 2000. Imdur, a drug used to treat angina, rose eight times the rate of inflation. And Lanoxin, used to treat congestive heart failure, rose at six times the rate of inflation. 
   Not only are the prices of drugs escalating at a rapid pace in the United States, but prices charged to Americans are also flat out incomprehensible. 
   We have all heard that prices of prescription drugs in other countries--including our neighbors, Canada and Mexico--are generally substantially lower than prices in the United States. The heartburn medicine Prilosec, the world's best seller, the largest selling prescription drug, costs $3.30 per pill in the United States. What is the price in Canada? One dollar and forty-seven cents. The allergy drug Claritin costs almost $2 a pill in the United States. What does it cost elsewhere? Forty-one cents in Great Britain and 48 cents in Australia. We are talking about exactly the same drug produced by the same manufacturer. 
   A constituent from Springhill, FL, called my office yesterday demanding to know why drug prices are so much lower in Mexico and Canada than they are in his hometown. I can't answer that question. Frankly, I don't think anyone can answer that question. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been the top-ranked U.S. industry for profits as a percentage of revenue throughout the past decade. After-tax profits for the pharmaceutical industry average 17 percent of sales. By way of comparison, the average for all industries was 5 percent. The effective tax rate for the pharmaceutical industry is 16 percent. The effective tax rate for all manufacturing companies is 23 
   percent; 31 percent for wholesale and retail trade, financial services, and insurance and real estate, and an average of 27 percent for all industry. 
   While millions of seniors are sacrificing their last dollar, as is Mrs. Kett, to pay for medication, the pharmaceutical manufacturers are taking in higher profits than any other industry in the United States of America. 
   Money does not take precedence over health. Profits cannot be the top priority when public health is compromised. We have that responsibility as the representative of those Americans to take action. 
   One of the things we ought to do in addition to adding prescription drugs as a part of Medicaid is to assure public access to true drug prices as opposed to the mythic average wholesale price. This would be one step to encourage accountability among drug manufacturers. Rapidly escalating prices and inequitable prices across borders warrant an investigation and consideration of prescription drug costs containment. 
   I submit that by having Medicare as a new force in the marketplace, not through regulation or cost control but by using the principles of Adam Smith in a capitalist society, that with an effective purchaser of drugs for our 39 million seniors, we can see a substantial reduction in the price of pharmaceuticals for them, and all Americans will indirectly benefit. As public servants, we have a fundamental responsibility to protect all of our citizens. 
   We all recognize that millions of seniors in America are struggling to pay for prescription drugs, so it seems clear our goal in the Senate should be to assure that our prescription drug benefit for seniors and people with disabilities is included in Medicare. 
   Our proposal is that Medicare would utilize an intermediary referred to as a ``pharmacy benefit manager.'' There would be two or more of these managers in each region of the country. They would be the ones responsible for negotiating with the pharmaceutical companies and then passing on those benefits to the ultimate senior user. We cannot achieve these kinds of benefits through the fractured plan that relies upon private insurance. We cannot assure these benefits by a plan which is fractured through 50 States. We can only assure to our seniors the benefits of effective control by the marketplace if we place this plan within the Medicare program. 
   I appreciate the opportunity to share these remarks and look forward to a further discussion of prescription drug prices that we face in this Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will speak on the time that has been reserved for Senator KENNEDY and ask unanimous consent to speak for up to 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we are now debating a conference report that includes both the legislative branch and the Treasury and general government appropriations bills. Unfortunately, the Treasury and general government bill was never considered on the Senate floor. It went directly from the Appropriations Committee into this conference report. 
   There are some critical deficiencies in the Treasury and general government appropriations bill, deficiencies that I had hoped to address on the floor with an amendment. I am now prevented from doing that. The deficiencies to which I want to call the attention of my colleagues involve counterterrorism funding, an issue that should be of particular concern to each of us. 
   As you know, terrorism is a national security threat, a threat which Americans have experienced in reality. Just to mention the names: Oklahoma City, the World Trade Center, Khobar Towers, Pan Am 103. Each of these reminds us of how deadly terrorism can be and how vulnerable we are to it. 
   What most Americans do not know is that there are many more instances of attempted terrorist activities that have been averted by a combination of good intelligence and effective law enforcement. 
   The apprehension of a terrorist crossing into the United States by Customs agents just prior to the millennium celebration is one well-known example of the success that we have had in interdicting terrorists before they can strike. 
   While terrorists have been around for a long time, their actions are becoming increasingly more deadly. In the past 5 years, over 18,000 people someplace around the world have been injured or killed in a terrorist incident. That 18,000 number of persons injured or killed by terrorism in the last 5 years represents a threefold increase over the preceding 5 years. 
   With the proliferation of chemical, biological, radiological, and even nuclear weapons as a real threat, the potential for even deadlier attacks is a reality. This makes efforts to prevent attacks even more vital. 
   Earlier this year, the congressionally mandated National Commission on Terrorism issued its report. The report is called: ``Countering the Changing Threat of International Terrorism.'' This report concluded that international terrorism poses an increasingly dangerous and difficult threat, and that countering the growing danger of this threat requires significantly enhancing U.S. efforts. 
   It further states that priority one is to prevent terrorist attacks using U.S. intelligence and law enforcement as our principal tools to prevent such attacks. 
   I would also like to cite a recent report by the Commission on America's National Interests. The Commission on America's National Interests is a commission on which Senators ROBERTS, MCCAIN, and myself are members. 
   The commission's report on ``America's National Interests,'' 
   dated July 2000, lists as a vital interest that:  
   Terrorist groups be prevented from acquiring weapons of mass destruction and using them against U.S. citizens, property and troops.  
   The commission's report goes on to state:  
   As one of the most free and open societies in the world, the U.S. is also among the most vulnerable to terrorism....... 
   Protecting American citizens both at home and abroad requires a well-coordinated counter-terrorism effort by all U.S. government agencies, giving due regard for fundamental American civil liberties and values.  
   The report on ``America's National Interests'' continues:  
   Given the severity of the potential consequence of a weapon of mass destruction terrorist incident, as well as the rising technical capacity of non-state actors, the U.S. government should attach the highest priority to developing the capacity to preempt these threats if possible, and mitigate their consequences if necessary.  
   Mr. President, I repeat from the report on ``America's National Interests'' that ``the U.S. government should attach the highest priority to developing the capacity to preempt these threats if possible, and mitigate their consequences if necessary.'' 
   This report could not have been more clear. Yet still another group of experts studying U.S. national security, the U.S. Commission on National Security, commonly known as the Hart-Rudman commission, concluded in its April 2000 report that our No. 1 priority should be to ensure that the United States is safe from the dangers of a new era: the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and terrorism. It specifically mentions ``strengthening cooperation among law enforcement agencies, intelligence services, and military forces to foil terrorist plots.......'' 
   The words of these three significant reports, as well as many other Americans, did not go unheeded by the administration. The President recognized the growing importance of law enforcement and intelligence in countering the terrorist threat even before these reports were released. He sent to Congress a request for over $300 million in additional funding for exactly the types of enhanced counterterrorism efforts that these three commissions are recommending. 
   What has happened in the Congress? Of the approximately $300 million requested, a portion of which was requested in a classified form, as it will be used by various intelligence agencies, $28 million of that $300 million was for reprogramming requests in the fiscal year that is about to conclude on September 30. What happened? That request for reprogramming was rejected, rejected including $10 million for the Department of the Treasury and $18 million for the Department of Justice. 
   I am sad to report that in the bill before us today, the fiscal year 2001 appropriations request, which begins on October 1, did not fare much better. There was a $71.1 million request for the Department of Justice. This has been completely unfunded in both the House and the Senate appropriations committees and thus in this conference report. There was a $77.2 million request for the Department of the Treasury which should have been included in the bill we are currently debating; $74 million of that remains unfunded. 
   In addition, the request for the intelligence community was not funded in the fiscal year 2001 legislation. In total, of those amounts which are available for public review, of the $300 million requested by the President, $146.1 million was unfunded. 
   Let me describe a couple of specific initiatives that are particularly important and that so far have not been funded in either the House or Senate appropriations bill. 
   First, the administration requested over $40 million to support the Joint Terrorism Task Forces. These are interagency law enforcement groups which combine resources and expertise for a more effective and efficient effort to deter and investigate terrorists. This is a proven concept that brings agencies together to solve problems, hopefully problems before they mature into tragic instances. The Joint Terrorism Task Forces were very successful in deterring and preventing terrorism during the millennium. I cannot understand why this Congress would not support this request. 
   Second, the President requested $6.4 million to create a unit within the Office of Foreign Asset Control dedicated to uncovering and tracking the financial assets of terrorist organizations. This is an area of law enforcement in which America, in the area of terrorism, is woefully deficient. It is vitally important that we establish this new office and that we gain an insight and an ability to oversee and control terrorist financing. This was a specific recommendation of the National Commission on Terrorism. This item was rejected, and so our woeful deficiency will continue for another year, if the current position of Congress, including the position of the legislation before us this afternoon, becomes law. 
   In fact, there were several items that were included in the President's request that the Commission on Terrorism specifically recommended. They include increased resources to meet technology requirements, expansion of linguistic capabilities, increased funding for investigative initiatives--all of those unfunded.  
   There is also an as yet unfunded request to establish a Center for Anti-Terrorism and Security Training. This will provide a centralized training facility for those on the front lines fighting terrorists around the world, including our own Capitol Police, diplomatic security officers protecting our embassies abroad, and our allies who look to us to help them in their fight against terrorism. The counterterrorism funding I am highlighting is desperately needed. All agencies have agreed 
   that we need to do more to step up our efforts against terrorism. These requests are supported by the bipartisan National Commission on Terrorism and, in more general terms, the Commission on America's National Interests, and the Hart-Rudman commission. 
   What I find especially hard to imagine is why we would refuse this $300 million request when it is so widely recognized that the cost of failure, when it comes to terrorism, involves weapons of mass destruction and could be in the billions of dollars. This is an area where we must do absolutely everything we can on the prevention side to avoid, to interdict acts of terrorism before they are inflicted upon our citizens. 
   Mr. President, there is yet another consequence of the action we are being asked to take by supporting an appropriations bill which is so deficient in meeting this key area of our Nation's security. All too often we are seen as pushing other governments to do more in the fight against terrorism, to help us in an international effort against terrorism. If we are unwilling to support what our own experts tell us is needed, what is in our national interest, how can we be effective in convincing others to do more? I don't think there is an answer to that question. We must practice what we preach. 
   The good news is there is still time to remedy the situation. I hope the appropriations committees will fund the President's request for counterterrorism funding. This is about a real threat that is here today and cannot be ignored. Failing to take action on this modest request is irresponsible. Those who call for spending more for potential future threats and for increasing spending on other national security priorities cannot ignore the vital national interest, the first-line priority of an effective national protection against terrorism. 
   I will express my dismay, my shock at what has been done by the Congress thus far by voting against this bill. And should the Congress, in its lack of attention or lack of appropriate recognition of the importance of terrorism, should we pass this appropriations bill, which is so deficient in responding to the challenges of terrorism, then I will urge the President to veto this bill and give the Congress an opportunity to redeem itself from what is potentially a very serious error--placing the national security of the United States at risk. 
   I thank the Chair and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we are debating the motion to proceed to the legislation that would increase the number of visas for aliens who have certain technical skills that are deficient within the United States; that is, the H-1B visa bill. Several of us hope this bill can be expanded in order to deal with other pressing issues of immigration to provide not only for those who are desirous of working in the high-tech industry--the high-tech industry which needs their services--but also that we can redress some of the injustices which have seeped into our immigration law. So I am, today, rising to discuss those elements of unfairness that we hope can be considered under the title of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act. 
   The focus of this legislation is, as the title of the act says, fairness. We all learned some fundamental lessons in grammar school. One of those is what is fair and what is not fair. It is fair for a teacher to punish two noisy schoolchildren who have broken the rules in the classroom by keeping both of them inside during the recess period. We may, in our own childhood, have been subjected to that kind of sanction. But if the teacher decides to let one child go out and play but keeps the other in, that wouldn't be fair. In other words, one of the aspects of fairness is treating people who are in the same circumstances in the same way. 
   We are here today trying to achieve that type of fairness because, in 1996, we passed an immigration law that went too far. It violated that rule of treating people in the same circumstances in the same way. 
   It was also unfair because it applied retroactively. People who had played by the rules, who were doing all the things that they thought this society wanted them to do in order to become a part of our society, suddenly found that all those steps were for naught, and they were about to be subjected to deportation. Making laws retroactive is almost always bad public policy. It is changing the rules in the middle of the game. That is what we have done, but this is our opportunity to correct it. 
   A little history: Central American and Haitian immigrants came to the United States, particularly in the 1980s, and were welcomed by Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush. They were fleeing civil wars or violent upheavals in their repressive governments. They followed every rule. 
   Over the past 10 or 15 years, they set down roots. They raised families; they bought homes, started small businesses. Then, with the passage of the 1996 immigration bill, they suddenly became deportable. They could be forced to return to their countries, the very countries they fled. They were being forced to do so based on no actions of their own but, rather, a change in the rules enacted here in Congress. 
   Congress was quick to recognize some of the overreaching of the 1996 immigration law because 1 year later, in 1997, and then 2 years later, in 1998, Congress took steps to correct this injustice for some people--mainly Nicaraguans, Cubans, and some Haitians. In 1997, with bipartisan support, Congress passed the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, often called NACARA. 
   In 1998, with bipartisan support, we passed the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act. In 2000, with the Latino and 
   Immigrant Fairness Act, we can complete the process and correct injustices for all who face similar circumstances. 
   One part of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, the part that we  refer to as ``NACARA Parity,'' would have a tremendous impact on Central American and Haitian nationals. Many of the Central American and Haitian beneficiaries of this legislation reside in my State of Florida. I know them well. They are small business owners; they are educators; they are volunteers. They are raising families who are contributing to our State. These residents are a vibrant and crucial part of our community. Many have made Florida their home for 15 or 20 years or more. It is patently unfair to uproot these families after they have sunk such deep roots into our communities. 
   I had the honor of participating in a hearing held recently in Miami when we originally introduced the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act. At that hearing we heard some stories, stories of adults and children; stories of people like Louisiana Micleese and Nestela Robergeau. It deeply affected the whole audience in attendance at the hearing. 
   I spoke at the hearing and told the story of a Miami resident, Alexandra Charles, who witnessed the brutal killing of her mother by military personnel in Haiti. Alexandra couldn't come to the hearing when I spoke on her behalf because she was working at one of the two jobs she is holding down in order to pay her way through the Miami Dade Community College. This young adult, who had grown up in Florida, was in danger of being deported to what, for her, was, for all intents and purposes, a foreign country. Congress did the right thing and passed legislation to protect her. But we did not protect others. 
   There are other elements of this legislation, the Latino fairness legislation. It is legislation which will update the registry which has not been updated in many years. That is the registry of who is currently in the United States, who has been living here as a law-abiding person and can apply for some legal status in the United States, and also a restoration of the 245(i) program, which is pro-business, pro-family, and common sense. 
   I will not speak at length on those other two provisions in this legislation because I know there are colleagues who will follow me who desire to do so. But I want to make one point that is common to all three components of this legislation: The ``NICARA Parity'' provision, the registry update, and the restoration of the 245(i) program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, these immigrants are long-time employees of small businesses and other businesses in virtually every State. They are workers who do some of the toughest, hardest jobs in America. What affects them affects all of us, especially the businesses and the consumers who rely on their dedication, energy, and commitment to achieving the American dream. 
   I urge all my colleagues to work with us and assure that this vital, long overdue legislation, legislation that is in the best American traditions of fairness and justice, becomes law and becomes law this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President I ask unanimous consent that Ms. Kimbriel Dean be allowed on the floor for the duration of my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, am I correct that I have 20 minutes reserved at this time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I appreciate the courtesy of the Senator allowing me to speak on another matter during the debate on the legislative branch conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this is the third in a series of five statements I am making on the issue of providing a prescription drug benefit for senior Americans. This continues the discussion I began last Thursday on the subject of how to modernize the Medicare program into one which will meet the needs of 21st century seniors in America. 
   Last week, we discussed the need to fundamentally reform the Medicare program by shifting its focus from treating acute illness to promoting and maintaining wellness, essentially converting the Medicare program from one which has an orientation towards dealing with the disease or the results of an accident after they have occurred--a sickness system--to one that attempts to maintain the highest quality of health--a wellness system. 
   We discussed the fact that access to affordable prescription medications is crucial to the success of a health care system based on keeping seniors healthy, well, and active. And virtually every modality that is established to maintain the highest state of good health for seniors involves access to prescription drugs. 
   Additionally, we discussed that, in the long run, providing seniors with access to those components of an effective wellness system, such as preventive screening, medical procedures, and appropriate prescription drug therapies, can yield significant savings for the Medicare program and thus for the American taxpayer as well as providing the enormous benefits to the senior of good health and the active lifestyle that that will allow. 
   Let's look at the case of osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by low bone mass, deterioration of bone tissue, leading to bone fragility and increased susceptibility to fractures, particularly of the hip, spine, and wrist. 
   Osteoporosis is a major public health threat for 28 million Americans. Eighty percent of those 28 million Americans are women. Osteoporosis is responsible for more than 1.5 million fractures annually in the United States. Included in this 1.5 million are 300,000 hip fractures, 700,000 vertebra fractures, 250,000 wrist fractures, and more than 300,000 fractures in other parts of the anatomy. Estimated national direct expenditures, including those for hospitals and nursing homes, for osteoporosis and related fractures is $14 billion a year. 
   The National Academy of Sciences and the National Institutes of Health agree that osteoporosis is highly preventable. A combination of a healthy lifestyle, with no smoking or excessive alcohol use, and bone density testing and medication and hormone therapies can keep men and women prone to this disease well and free of the debilitating, sometimes fatal, effects of fractures. Seniors and near seniors must have access to screening, counseling, and appropriate medication to keep this ``silent killer'' at bay. 
   One of the most common prescriptions for osteoporosis prevention is a treatment referred to as Fosamax. The annual cost of Fosamax is approximately $750. Contrast that with a hip replacement where the surgery and followup therapy will cost the Medicare program and taxpayers over $8,000. 
   It makes both programmatic and economic sense that these preventive interventions be included under the big tent of Medicare. They should be treated as all of the other benefits that 98 percent of those eligible for Medicare enjoy today. 
   Let me restate the fact that Part B of Medicare--that is the part that, among other things, covers physicians and outpatient services--is a voluntary program that seniors must elect to get the benefits and to pay the monthly premiums for participation in Part B. How many seniors in America who are eligible for that component of Medicare in fact make that election and pay that monthly fee to get those benefits? The answer: 98 percent of eligible seniors voluntarily elect to participate in Part B of Medicare. 
   Seniors trust and rely on Medicare. As a result, virtually all who are eligible to join voluntarily elect to do so. When the Federal Government decides that it should participate in providing a prescription drug benefit for American seniors, that benefit is best placed under the same big tent of the Medicare program. 
   Now, this is not a unanimous opinion. Some of my Senate colleagues believe that a prescription drug benefit should be left outside the tent, left to a sideshow status, if you will. In order to determine which way is truly the best way, the main tent of Medicare or a sideshow, it is important to answer some key questions. 
   Question 1 is what do the customers, the seniors and the people who live with disabilities, what do they want? How would they prefer this program to be organized and administered? We all know the old saying that the customer is always right. This will surely be true for the new drug benefit that we will offer to Medicare beneficiaries. Congress must learn to ask and to listen--in health care terminology, to first diagnose before we proceed to prescribe. 
   This should have been the lesson learned from Congress' ill-considered decision to add catastrophic coverage to Medicare in the late 1980s. We prescribed before we listened. When we listen, seniors tell us they like the Medicare program. Ninety-eight percent of them voluntarily elect to participate. In 1998, the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 74 percent of seniors surveyed believed that Medicare was doing a good job serving their interests. 
   Seniors tell us that while Medicare is not perfect, it is convenient, affordable, and dependable. They never worry that the benefits will suddenly disappear or become too expensive. They like the universality of the Medicare program. No matter where they are--in Kansas, in Utah, or in Florida--the benefits are available and affordable. They don't want to worry, as they would in some plans, that an income of $16,000 a year would make them ``too wealthy'' to qualify for help. 
   Including the prescription drug benefit in Medicare would offer peace of mind. But don't take my word for it. Another recent poll conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard University showed that when seniors are given the choice of having the Federal Government administer a Medicare prescription drug benefit versus the alternative of having the Government help to pay for private insurance plans, 36 percent chose the private option; 57 percent of the respondents preferred to have the benefit as part of an expanded Medicare program. 
   We hear over and over in statements on the Senate floor and occasionally even in political ads that Americans will be better off if prescription drug benefits are not made part of the Medicare program. But when we listen to the people, not to just political rhetoric, what we find is that Medicare beneficiaries do not complain about Medicare. Rather, we hear a desire to expand Medicare to include real prescription drug benefits. We should listen to these voices of the customers. 
   Question 2: Will a true Medicare benefit or a program that relies on private and State insurers be the most reliable? Predictability, sustainability, reliability are important qualities for America's seniors. The bill I have introduced with Senators ROBB, BRYAN, CONRAD, CHAFEE, and JEFFORDS assures that all beneficiaries, including those in underserved and rural areas, would be guaranteed a defined, accessible, affordable, and stable benefit for the same monthly premium nationwide. Medicare would subsidize benefits directly and pay for prescription drug costs as any other Medicare benefit. 
   In contrast, the plan that is being proposed by Governor George W. Bush and by House Republicans and by some  Members of this body asserts that prescription medications are a sideshow act and should not be included under the big tent of Medicare. They have outlined plans and introduced legislation to accomplish that objective. 
   We have heard from our colleagues that seniors do not want big government involved in their prescription drug benefit. My colleagues have said that the Vice President's plan and even the plan that has been introduced by a bipartisan group of our colleagues is a one-size-fits-all plan without adequate choice. Governor Bush attacks the Vice President's plan in his latest television ad entitled ``Compare,'' saying that ``AL GORE's prescription drug plan forces seniors into a government-run HMO.'' 
   I would like to quote from the New York Times of September 16, which analyzes this latest ad. This is what the New York Times has to say under the category of Accuracy:  
   Health maintenance organizations are not popular, so it is not surprising that the commercial links Mr. Gore's prescription drug plans to HMOs. But to do so is to stretch the facts. 
   Mr. Gore does not force the elderly to accept his new prescription drug benefit. It is voluntary. And Medicare recipients can stay in traditional plans where they choose their own doctors. 
   Mr. Gore's plan does rely on private benefit managers to manage the program--just like private insurers do--which encourages use of generic drugs and less expensive brand names. But these are not HMOs.  
   Some critics argue that it is Mr. Bush's plan that would increase the number of older persons enrolling in managed care. Mr. Bush would give the people the ability to choose between the traditional Medicare program, including a new drug benefit and government-subsidized private insurance packages. A question is whether the premiums would rise for traditional Medicare, causing more people to choose managed care. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Let's take another look at what Governor Bush and others in the House, as well as some of our colleagues, would offer to seniors. They would offer choice in their prescription drug plan, but the choice is not for seniors. It is for the private insurers, the States, and other entities that might choose to participate. HMOs which participate can choose to offer an affordable benefit or a prohibitively expensive one or no prescription drug benefit at all. According to the Health Care Maintenance Organization, this year some 900,000 Medicare beneficiaries who had signed up with a Medicare+choice HMO have seen those benefits yanked away, as the HMO terminates coverage. 
   Many others have seen their HMOs either eliminate the prescription drug benefit, as have many in my State of Florida, or they have seen that benefit substantially reduced. 
   The House Republicans' plan looks to private insurance to offer prescription drug policies to seniors. We have discussed time after time that the private insurance industry has said it doesn't want to offer these plans. Maybe a reason for their disinclination to offer these plans can be provided through the window of a type of plan which is very similar to the Republican House proposal. 
   Under the current law, there are various types of Medigap plans--plans that are provided by private insurers to fill gaps in the Medicare program. Three of these Medigap plans cover prescription drug benefits. All three of these have a $250 deductible and a 50/50 cost sharing for coinsurance. 
   Plans labeled ``H'' and ``I'' cover drugs up to $1,250 in total spending and plan ``J'' covers up to $3,000 in total spending. None of these three plans offer what is referred to as a stop-loss. There is never a point in the process where the beneficiary is not forced to continue to pay half of the cost of their drugs. 
   Now, what does Medigap charge to get these programs which limit coverage, in two cases, to $1,250, and in a third, $3,000, without a stop-loss provision? The average cost of these plans nationwide, per month, is $136. In my State of Florida, the average cost per month is $167. This gives you some idea of what seniors are going to be asked to pay should we go to a private insurance model as the means of providing prescription medication. These costs are well beyond what is affordable for most low-income and many middle-income seniors. 
   With the history of broad variation, high, and unpredictable premiums and sub-par benefit packages, it is unclear to me why a Medigap-like approach to designing a Medicare prescription drug benefit would be in the best interest of America's seniors. 
   Finally, there is now before us a proposal for an ``immediate fix'' for low-income seniors with incomes up to 150 percent of poverty in the form of block grants to States. Not only would this plan cover only a fraction of Medicare beneficiaries, it would provide a patchwork quilt of coverage for those individuals who did qualify for the benefit. 
   States could offer coverage consistent with their current Medicaid or State drug assistance programs, or could punt their programs to the Federal Government if they chose not to participate at all. 
   Seniors in some States would have coverage, but when they move to another State, they might have no coverage, or different coverage. It would be like Forrest Gump and his box of chocolates--seniors would never know just what kind of coverage they would get. 
   The reason that 98 percent of Medicare-eligible beneficiaries sign up for the Medicare program is that it provides reliable, quality coverage for everyone equally and everywhere in the United States of America. So why would we treat a prescription drug benefit differently than we do for the rest of Medicare benefits? 
   A third question is who is eligible under the program and what will they get? 
   There is a great deal of rhetoric about who will be eligible under the prescription drug plans being offered. For Mr. and Mrs. Jones, who make $11,000 a year--100 percent of poverty--both of the plans offered in the Senate and by Texas Governor Bush claim that their drug coverage will be completely paid for. But what will that coverage be? 
   In Texas, the Medicaid program only covers three prescription drugs a month. So Mr. and Mrs. Jones would be out of luck if they required more than that. But if they moved to Illinois, the program might only cover drugs for certain conditions, as is the case with that State's current drug assistance program. 
   A prescription drug benefit within Medicare, such as those proposed by my colleagues and myself in the Senate and the Vice President, would ensure coverage of all medically necessary prescription drugs based on need without a benefit cap. That is the kind of reliability that seniors need. And what of my own constituent, Elaine Kett. 
   Elaine Kett is a 77-year-old woman from Vero Beach. She is a widow living on a fixed income of approximately $20,000 a year. Like many of my constituents, Mrs. Kett sent me a list of all the prescription drugs that she takes to keep herself active and well. Every year, Elaine Kett makes sacrifices to ensure that she takes the medications she needs to live a normal active life. There are millions of seniors like Mrs. Kett in the United States today. None of them would be covered by a low income block grant to the states. 
   Question Four: The final question, which approach would ensure that seniors have access to an affordable drug benefit--one which could be most effective in holding down the escalating prices of prescription medications? 
   Individuals like Mrs. Kett are not alone. We are all witnessing prescription drug prices climbing at record levels of over 17 percent per year. We are all aware of the fact that buying in bulk yields discounts. Those seniors without insurance plans that cover drugs are on their own in the market and are faced with the higher drug prices than those of us who have prescription drug coverage negotiated by a pharmacy benefit manager. 
   Tomorrow, we will discuss the impact of the high cost of prescription drugs on seniors--and what can and should be done to make prescription medications more affordable for seniors.  
   Mr. President, our families should be secure in the fact that prescription medications are included in the big tent of Medicare and are not treated as the bearded lady outside the big tent at the circus. For many seniors, prescription medications are the main event--and we should treat them as such. A prescription drug benefit in the Medicare program is not ``one size fits all,'' but rather one program for all. I look forward to discussing why a prescription drug benefit must not only be universal and accessible, but truly affordable. 
   Mr. President, when I give my fourth statement on this topic, I will elaborate on the question of which of the options that are before us inside the ``main tent'' of Medicare or the ``side tent'' of a separate non-Medicare administered prescription drug benefit, and which one will have the best opportunity of assuring affordability for America's seniors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that during today's session the following Senators be recognized in morning business for the times specified: Senator GRAHAM of Florida and Senator EDWARDS of North Carolina for up to 10 minutes each, and Senator DORGAN of North Dakota for up to 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will now proceed to use the 10 minutes which I have been allocated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, yesterday I started the first of what will be five or more brief statements on issues related to the subject of the Federal Government providing a prescription medication benefit to Medicare recipients. 
   Yesterday, I opened this series with a discussion of what I consider to be the most important reform required in the Medicare system; and that is reforming a 35-year-old health care system which was established to provide acute care; that is, care after an illness had matured into a major condition, or after an accident had caused a person to require specific medical attention largely in a hospital setting. 
   What was not included as part of the 1965 Medicare program was an emphasis on what seniors want today; and that is, they want a system that will not just treat them after they are seriously ill but to have treatment that will avoid or reduce the impact of those illnesses through effective preventive strategies. 
   Those preventive strategies have many components, including regular screenings for those conditions that can be detected at an early time; and then the management, through a variety of sources, of those chronic conditions so that they do not mature into serious health concerns, in some cases even death. 
   To me, the conversion of Medicare from a sickness program to a wellness program is the fundamental reform that this Congress must achieve. 
   If we are going to have this new orientation on wellness, prescription drugs will play a critical role. Prescription drugs are a part of almost every methodology of managing a medical condition which, if not appropriately managed, could mature into serious complications. Prescription drugs are a key to providing true quality preventive care for our senior citizens. 
   My point is illustrated by an example. 
   Mrs. Jones is a Medicare beneficiary. She has, like an increasingly large number of Medicare beneficiaries, no drug coverage. Unfortunately, Mrs. Jones also has diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol. These are three conditions which in the past would have been debilitating, even fatal. Today, thanks to the miracle of modern medicine, Mrs. Jones can treat these conditions and continue to live a healthy life. 
   Mrs. Jones is likely to be treated with Glucopahge, Procardia XL, and Lipitor. 
   The annual cost of Glucophage will be $708. The annual cost for Procardia XL will be approximately $500 to $900, depending on whether 30 or 60 milligram tablets are prescribed. The annual cost of Lipitor is approximately $700. The total annual spending for these three drugs alone for Mrs. Jones will range between $1,900 and $2,300. These costs, for most seniors--I would argue, for most Americans--are likely to cause significant economic hardship. But if Mrs. Jones does not take these drugs, she will find her conditions raging out of control and will surely be a candidate for expensive hospital stays and surgery. 
   Those last two comments underscore the fact that this is a medical issue in terms of will we make available and affordable to our older citizens those drugs which are available to manage conditions and avoid those conditions maturing into the need for expensive hospitalization, surgery, or even conditions that are beyond the ability of those heroic measures to stop the unending pace towards death. It is also an economic issue. 
   For most seniors, there are many years of preparation for retirement, preparation which is particularly oriented to assure that there will be an economic foundation under their retirement years. There are many challenges and risks to that economic foundation. Today the most prominent of those risks, the one which is most feared by millions of older Americans, is the fact that they will, in fact, be diagnosed as having some condition which, the good news is, is treatable and controllable. The bad news is, it will wreck their economic foundation to pay the cost of those drugs. We are dealing not only with an issue of medical humanity but also of economic security. We owe it to our Nation's seniors that they have the chance to live a full, healthy, and economically secure life in retirement. Prescription medications are a key to allowing them to do so. 
   When Medicare was established in 1965, Mrs. Jones may have benefited most by a system that provided effective hospital care, that did not have a particular focus on preventive benefits, where outpatient prescription drug coverage was not a particularly significant factor. But in the 35 years since that time, medical science and our set of values of what we want from our health care system have changed dramatically. 
   Today pharmaceuticals, not surgery, are the first line of defense against illnesses. The number of prescriptions for American seniors grew from 648 million as recently as 1992 to more than 1 billion in the year 2000. One example of this transition from surgery to pharmaceuticals is the treatment of ulcers. It used to be that the standard treatment was surgery. Today surgery for ulcers is a very rare event. What has happened is the substitution of effective pharmaceuticals to treat, remedy, and reverse ulcerous conditions. 
   A senior is better because he or she has avoided the necessity of intrusive surgery. Our taxpayers are better because they have avoided the cost of that surgery, and the senior is able to resume a normal quality of life. 
   We should think of preventive medication today as the anesthesiology of the last century. I have suggested that if Medicare had been created, not in 1965 but at the end of the Civil War in 1865, there would have been the same debate that we are having today over whether we should include anesthesiology. As we know from our study of Civil War history, it was not uncommon for very serious surgical procedures to be conducted 
   without anesthesiology. Today we would think it to be  ludicrous to the extreme and inconceivably inhumane not to have anesthesiology as a core part of a health care system. I suggest that in a few years people will look back on this debate with the same shock and surprise that we thought there was any debate over the question of whether pharmaceuticals should be part of an appropriate humane health care system as we begin the 21st century. 
   Medicare beneficiaries should not have to choose between bankrupting themselves and their families or succumbing to a preventable disease. The key to modernizing Medicare is turning it from a sickness program to a wellness program. Prescription drug coverage is a crucial component of that change. 
   Let me give another example. A senior with gastrointestinal problems is most likely to be prescribed a drug known as Prilosec. Based on 1998 data from the Pennsylvania Pharmaceutical Assistance Contract for the Elderly program, which is the largest outpatient prescription drug program in the country, Prilosec is the second highest selling drug prescribed for seniors. The annual cost is $1,455. For a senior who, for instance, is at 200 percent of the poverty level, $16,700 per year, Prilosec will consume $1 out of every $11 of that senior's income. This price is very high for that senior. But the price the senior would pay if he or she did not take Prilosec is even higher. They would sacrifice an active, pain free life for one riddled with chronic pain. 
   This body should recognize that prescription drugs are an integral part of a preventive care strategy for the Medicare program. As one of the primary guardians and trustees of the Medicare program, the Senate has the responsibility to reform and modernize Medicare so that it focuses on health promotion and disease prevention for all of our Medicare beneficiaries. It can improve the quality of life for older citizens through making this conversion from a sickness to a wellness program. 
   The Medicare program can also slow the cost to the taxpayers by making this transition. The cost of one senior, typically an older woman who falls and, because of her shallow bone mass, injures her hip and requires hospitalization, often surgery, and always a long and painful recovery period, the cost of that to the taxpayers is much greater than the cost of one of the preventive measures which is now being recommended but which is yet to be covered by Medicare; that is, effective hormone management techniques which will contribute to maintaining strong bone conditions and reducing the vulnerability to that kind of a serious mishap. 
   It has been proven time and time again that a combination of preventive services and appropriate medication can reduce the incidence of stroke, diabetes, heart disease, and other potentially fatal conditions. 
   Detailed programmatic changes--changes based upon the realization that prescription drugs and preventive services go hand in hand--are necessary to convert the current Medicare system into one that best serves our citizens by keeping them well as long as possible. 
   Mr. President, we are very fortunate to be living in an era of unprecedented prosperity. This period gives to us, the trustees of the Medicare system, an even greater responsibility and opportunity. We can use this period of prosperity to reform the Medicare program, to assure that our seniors will be able to live longer, healthier lives through preventive care and the treatments that are available to us today. To capitalize upon this opportunity we must provide a prescription benefit which is affordable and comprehensive for our Medicare beneficiary citizens. 
   I implore each of us to take advantage of this opportunity and use the funds that are available to us now to implement change that will benefit our seniors today, our children and grandchildren tomorrow. 
   We have discussed the need to reform the Medicare program to shift its focus from the treatment of illness to the maintenance of good health. We have discussed the critical role that prescription medications play in ensuring a successful preventive care strategy for Medicare. If we agree on these issues--and I believe there is broad consensus--the next question we must answer is: How should a prescription drug benefit be made available for our Medicare beneficiaries? 
   Next week, I will discuss the critical question of whether a prescription drug benefit should be part of the big tent of Medicare program, or if it should be placed as a sideshow act outside of Medicare. I look forward to discussing this with my colleagues next week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I want to close with a comment about an article that appeared in today's Washington Post under the headline, ``Bush Hits Gore on Drugs and Taxes.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, according to this article, there is a new 30-second ad being run that is entitled ``Drugs and Taxes.'' According to the Washington Post article, the audio of this tape begins as follows:  
   Al Gore's prescription plan forces seniors into a government-run HMO. Governor Bush gives seniors a choice.  
   The Post, in its analysis of this statement, makes the following comment:  
   In a classic contrast ad furthering the theme that Gore is untrustworthy, Bush misrepresents the vice president's drug plan. First, it isn't mandatory; seniors can opt for drug coverage or not. Second, Medicare recipients could remain in traditional choose-your-own-doctor plans. Drug payments would be administered through private cost-control groups--such as those now employed by the insurance industry--that are not ``government-run'' or health maintenance organizations. In fact, many analysts say Bush's plan, while providing choices, would encourage more seniors to join cost-conscious HMOs.  
   I only add to that analysis of this ad that it is interesting to me that the word ``HMO'' is inserted in the ad of Governor Bush as a pejorative. This Senate has been trying for the better part of the last 2 years to pass a Patients' Bill of Rights in order to lay out some basic standards of protection as they relate to the beneficiaries of HMOs, the citizens who look to the HMO to finance their health care, the providers--doctors and hospitals--who are the source of that health care, and the HMO which has received the premium dollars from the patients and is now called upon to pay the providers for the cost of services delivered to the beneficiaries. 
   It has been my position--and I believe today a majority of the Senate's, as well as a very strong majority in the House of Representatives--that it is a Federal responsibility to establish some basic standards of that relationship so that there will be a comfort level that people know what will be expected. They will know how they would be treated, whether it is in the emergency room, whether it is in access to a specialist physician, whether it is a woman's right to use her gynecologist as her primary care physician; all of those very intimate issues will have a known, federally established standard. 
   Yet in spite of that majority support in both Houses of the Congress, we have gone month after month after month unable to even have the conference committee report out a bill that we can debate and decide whether it meets the appropriate standards of providing those standards of treatment for patients, providers, and the HMO itself. 
   It is surprising to me, therefore, in that context that now Governor Bush apparently has concluded that the HMOs are sufficient pejorative that he can use them as the target of his attack of what we don't want in our health care system. I hope this ad might serve the probably unintended purpose of galvanizing an even broader coalition within the Congress behind the necessity for HMO reform and for the establishment of a basic set of patients' rights. 
   If Presidential candidate Governor Bush has seen the HMO as such a pejorative figure that he is now attacking it in his ads, that might send a signal as to what the American people want us to do in terms of beginning to rectify that negative image by providing some effective nationwide standards of Patients' Bill of Rights for HMOs.  
   So I will conclude with that side comment. I do hope that on this important issue of the provision of prescription drug benefits, we will deescalate the misrepresentation of both parties' plans. I happen to have my own strong preference as to which plan I think will best serve the needs of the American people, and particularly our 39 million Medicare beneficiaries, but I think we ought to treat both plans with the respect they deserve, have a full and serious debate on those plans, use the election of November 7 as a national referendum as to how we wish to proceed, and then if, unfortunately, we have failed to act on prescription drugs during the remaining weeks of this session, we would reconvene in January of 2001 with a President who has a mandate from the people for a clear direction, and we will respond to that mandate by effective action. 
   If we achieve that goal, then to the extent of this very critical issue, the democratic process is alive, healthy, and performing one of its fundamental functions of converting public aspirations into policy that will benefit their lives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, prescription medication is one of the most significant issues before the family of America. Unfortunately, the family is hearing most of this through 30-second television ads. These ads tend to be long on rhetoric and short on substance. 
   I hope the Senate can serve its national purpose as a great deliberative body by bringing some deeper focus on an issue which affects, in the most intimate way, tens of millions of our citizens. I hope I can contribute to this by a series of floor statements on different aspects of this important national issue of prescription medication, especially for older Americans. 
   Older Americans often must take their medicine on a daily basis. It is important that the Senate also get a daily dose of reality of life for those older Americans. I invite my colleagues with similar or differing perspectives to join me so we can have a daily discussion on this important issue. I am pleased today to be joined by my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, and invite others to join. 
   We have before the Senate the opportunity to achieve a broadly shared objective--reforming Medicare. Many of my colleagues have discussed Medicare reform in the context of administrative changes and organizational restructuring. While there is certainly merit to that discussion, I believe the most fundamental reform that must be made to the Medicare program is changing Medicare from a program that is based on acute care, illness, treatment after the fact, and to move it to a program that emphasizes prevention, wellness, and the maintenance of the quality of life. That is the fundamental reform we must make in Medicare. 
   To accomplish this shift we must first recognize that the face of health care has changed dramatically since the inception of Medicare in 1965. Thirty-five years ago, America's health care system was almost wholly reacting. Patients sought help from chronic conditions that flared up, or waited to see a doctor when acute conditions hit or if they had a serious accident. Their care was typically delivered in hospitals. Medicare responded to this acute care, hospital-based health care system. 
   The fundamental reason the program was structured as such was based on the fact that most Americans lived only a few years after they reached retirement. As we know from our colleague, Senator MOYNIHAN, the original rationale for 65 as the basis of retirement was the fact that date was set in Europe at the end of the 19th century when the average life expectancy of a European male was only 62. There was a high degree of cynicism in the selection of that date. That date has continued to be an important part of our culture. Only a few decades ago the average American could only expect 7 years of life expectancy after they reached 65. Today the average American has almost 20 years of life expectancy after they reach the age of 65, and by the end of this century an American can expect almost 30 years of life expectancy after attaining the age of 65. 
   We must reform Medicare to assure that today's seniors can spend that gift of years living healthy, productive lives. This can be done if we make an investment in prevention care, which  includes screening, early intervention, and the management of the conditions which are detected through those early interventions. 
   The Medicare program should treat illness before it happens. New preventive screening and counseling benefits of the Medicare program give us that opportunity. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and the Institute of Medicine have recommended to the Congress that we add new preventive screening and benefits to the Medicare program. These benefits will address some of the most prominent underlying risk factors 
   for illness that face all Medicare benificiaries. These include coverage for medical nutrition therapy for seniors with diabetes, cardiovascular disease or renal disease, screening for hypertension, counseling for tobacco cessation, screening for glaucoma, counseling for hormone replacement therapy, screening for vision and hearing, expanded screening and counseling for osteoporosis, and screening for cholesterol. 
   In addition to adding to our current relatively short list of preventive efforts within Medicare, we need to change the basic structure of how Medicare goes about determining when a new preventive methodology is both medically appropriate and cost effective. Today we rely upon the conventional congressional process to add new prevention methodologies. What I believe we should do is to establish a scientific nonpartisan basis to arrive at these determinations. I suggest we assign this responsibility to the Institute of Medicine and direct that institute conduct ongoing studies of prevention methodologies to assess their scientific validity and economic cost effectiveness. When they make such a determination, they should submit it to Congress, and Congress, using a fast-track process, as we typically do in trade matters, would make a determination either to accept or reject but not to modify those recommendations made by a scientific panel. I believe that approach would assure us that we would be providing to our older citizens the most modern scientifically tested means of maintaining a high standard of living. 
   It is critical that we assure Medicare beneficiaries, both present and future, those most appropriate health care possibilities. By making preventive care the cornerstone of Medicare reform, we can do just that. 
   This discussion of a new Medicare, a Medicare focused on wellness, reminds me of an anecdote. A man walks into the doctor's office and the doctor says: I have both good news and bad news. The good news is that because we have done a screening process we have detected your disease early and we have the opportunity to prescribe the medicines and other medical treatments to stop its spread and reverse its adverse effect on your health. The bad news is you cannot afford the medicine to do this. 
   Sadly, this is not a joke. The list of diseases that were once fatal and are now preventable is long and growing. Years ago, people with high cholesterol could almost count on developing heart disease. Today, cholesterol levels can be kept in check with a number of drugs. One of those is Lipitor, a widely prescribed drug for high cholesterol. This drug has an average yearly cost of nearly $700. As with many other near-miracle drugs, Lipitor is too expensive for many seniors. Yet Medicare, the Nation's commitment to take care of its elderly and disabled, does not cover Lipitor or most other outpatient drugs. Medicare will, however, pay for the surgery after the heart attack which that man is likely to have because he was unable to treat his condition while it was still subject to management. 
   That policy may have made sense in 1965 when the man would only live a few years after retirement. Are we prepared in the year 2000 to tell an American who reaches 65 and has an average of almost 20 years of life expectancy that we are going to treat them only after they have a heart attack; that is the point when we are going to provide access to the means of managing a health condition? 
   I will soon address the critical link between prescription medications and preventive medicine. Prevention and prescription drugs are a key to a modern health care system for our Nation's seniors. This Senate should contribute to delivering that key, and do it now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my communications director, Kimberly James, be accorded floor privileges for the remainder of my remarks.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Today I offer a tribute to a great Floridian who has advanced the cause of quality judicial appointments to an independent Federal judiciary: Mr. Benjamin Hill III of Tampa. 
   For four years, Mr. Hill has served as chairman of Florida's non-partisan Federal Judicial Nominating Commission, which screens candidates for federal judgeships. Mr. Hill has done an outstanding job of leading the Commission and saluting the principle that those appointed to the federal judiciary should be among the best in the legal profession. 
   This year the United States Senate has confirmed six new federal judges for Florida; five in the Middle District and one in the Southern District. The investiture ceremony for two of those new judges, the Honorable James Moody and the Honorable James David Whittemore, will be held September 18, 2000, in Tampa, Florida, followed by other investitures elsewhere in our state. The federal judiciary, the legal profession and the public welcome these new federal judges. 
   As we applaud new jurists, we also recognize the tireless work of Mr. Hill in managing a judicial-selection process focused on meritorious appointments. A leader in his community, his church and his profession, Mr. Hill is a past president of the Florida Bar and a current member of the Board of Governors Executive Committee of the American Bar Association. 
   The United States Constitution specifies that one of the functions of  the United States Senate is to offer ``advice and consent'' on the executive branch's nominations, which includes the nomination of federal judges for our independent judiciary. 
   Perhaps the most visible aspect of the advise-and-consent clause is the Senate's power to confirm nominations or reject them, thus denying consent. There are myriad ways to offer advice to the executive branch; here's a brief description of our process in Florida. 
   Florida's Federal Judicial Nominating Commission, a diverse non-political panel comprised of attorneys and lay persons, receives and reviews applications from prospective federal judges. The Commission forwards top candidates to my attention. This screening process evolved so that Senator CONNIE MACK and I jointly interviewed leading applicants and made joint recommendations to the White House. 
   During the period that Mr. Hill has served as chairman of this Commission, the United States Senate has confirmed the nominations of the following Floridians to serve as United States District Court judges:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, in March of 1999, I traveled, for the first time, to the People's Republic of China with a number of our colleagues. At the end of a long flight from Detroit to Beijing, I looked out the window as we were on the final approach to the airport. I was struck by the mass of humanity, from horizon to horizon, that lay before me. That scene underscored one of the greatest challenges in the 21st century, and it will be that we and China together take all necessary steps to work to assure and maintain peaceful relations between our peoples. 
   With almost one-quarter of the world's population within its borders, China could represent the greatest threat to our Nation's national security. However, if we maintain a sense of respect and strive for peace between the United States and China, and if that remains among the highest priorities of U.S. diplomacy, we can continue to build the permanent institutional relationships that will give us the greatest assurance of peace in the years to come. 
   As we enter the new millennium, I can think of no better way to demonstrate America's leadership than by advancing and expanding our trade and investment policy with the world's most populous nation. Before we discuss the details of this vote, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the enormous cooperative effort of the President, the leadership of the  Congress, the agricultural communities of the United States, and many other citizens in support of this measure. 
   Today we are debating an amendment offered by Senator THOMPSON of Tennessee. I wish to commend Senator THOMPSON for calling the attention of the Nation and of this body to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. I agree that this is an issue that is vital to our national security and merits the closest attention. This is an issue which I have personally followed through my work on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. 
   Unfortunately, the amendment that is before us, an amendment which has been entitled ``The China Nonproliferation Act,'' does not give the issue of proliferation the comprehensive and serious treatment which I believe it deserves. We need to do more than send a message to the Chinese. We need to develop a comprehensive program that will effectively deal with the proliferation problem on a global basis. If our goal is to deter proliferation, it must be a global effort at deterrence. Although I will oppose the Thompson amendment when we vote on it tomorrow, I do hope we will be able to work together to develop legislation that will effectively and comprehensively deal with proliferation. 
   As we commence this stage of the debate, it is important that each of us completely understand the specific issue which we are debating, the details of what the Senate is being asked to vote upon, and the likely consequences of this vote. 
   Let me first describe in very simple terms the substance of the vote to grant permanent normal trade relations to China. In order to clarify the fact that this status is not a unique or a special status, Congress, in 1998, passed legislation to redefine the designation, to redefine from the phrase ``most favored nation'' to the more appropriate phrase ``normal trade relations.'' 
   China has had most favored nation and now normal trade relations status each year since 1979, when the United States first established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. This status has been subject to annual review and annual renewal. It is worth mentioning that not once in the past 21 years has China been denied normal trade status. 
   Currently, the United States denies normal trade relations status to Cuba and North Korea. That denial is required by the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974 because those nations deny, seriously restrict, or burden their citizens' right to emigrate. 
   The United States also denies normal trade relations status to Afghanistan, Laos, Serbia, and Montenegro, as directed by more recent legislative or Presidential action. 
   It is important to note that, although economic sanctions have been levied against Iran, Iraq, and Libya, these nations still legally retain their normal trade relations status with the United States. 
   By granting China permanent normal trade relations status, we will fulfill our commitments under the World Trade Organization and will then be able to take advantage of the special concessions which were obtained from China in bilateral agreements negotiated by this administration. However, if we fail to grant China permanent normal trade relations status and China is granted membership in the World Trade Organization, every other WTO member country in the world will be able to take advantage of the range of benefits that we, the United States, negotiated for ourselves, except the United States of America. 
   With that brief description in mind, it is important to clearly outline the issues that will not be affected by this vote. 
   First, we are not voting on whether or not we agree with, like, or trust the Chinese Communist Government. We are simply voting on a change and, in my view, an enhancement, in our 21-year economic relations with China. 
   Second, we are not voting on whether or not to allow China to enter the World Trade Organization. This will take place regardless of what actions the Senate takes on permanent NTR status. 
   Third, we are not voting on the bilateral WTO accession agreement between China and the United States. That agreement has been signed and will not be changed or renegotiated. 
   Fourth, we are not voting on a trade agreement with multilateral concessions like the North American Free Trade Agreement. The bilateral agreement this administration has already negotiated is a one-way agreement in which China agrees to eliminate or reduce tariffs and makes other concessions to WTO members. All WTO members, including the United States, have made no concessions to China. Granting permanent normal trade relations status to China does not require us to give the Chinese any additional access to our markets. They have made all of the concessions. 
   Fifth, we are not voting on any of the issues surrounding the relationship between mainland China and Taiwan. In fact, the Taiwanese position on this vote could not have been more clearly stated than by the Taiwanese President, Chen Shui-bian, in a March 22, 2000, interview with the Los Angeles Times. In that interview, the President stated:  
   We would welcome the normalization of U.S.-China trade relations, just like we hope the cross strait relations [between Taiwan and China] also can be normalized. We look forward to both the People's Republic of China and Taiwan's accession to the WTO.  
   If the United States continues to be concerned about protecting Taiwanese security and other interests, then should we not pay close attention to the strong support of the President of Taiwan for granting PNTR to China? 
   I ask unanimous consent to print the full text of this March 22, 2000, Los Angeles Times interview in the RECORD immediately following my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
   Finally, we will not prevent the continued importation of Chinese products to the United States by voting against this legislation. For example, under the WTO agreement on textiles and clothing, U.S. import quotas on Asian textiles will be 
   phased out in 2005. China is currently scheduled to benefit by that 2005 phaseout of Asian quotas. It is anticipated that this phaseout of Asian quotas will result in significant increases in imports of textiles and garments that have been manufactured and assembled generally from Asian raw materials and textiles into the United States. 
   However, under the bilateral accession agreement, the United States negotiated a special textile-specific import safeguard which will remain in place until the end of 2008. Therefore, by defeating this underlying legislation to grant permanent normal trade relations to China, we will actually be doing harm to the U.S. textile and apparel industry. 
   We will not, by failure to pass this legislation, affirmatively address any of the genuine concerns which have been expressed about our relations with China. None of those concerns will be affirmatively addressed by voting against this bill. In fact, a ``no'' vote will result in both tangible losses, such as the loss of the special textile safeguard, as well as some important intangible losses. Killing this legislation now may create the illusion that we are making a strong, positive statement about our relationship with China when, in fact, the failure to engage China now may have much more serious negative effects into the future. 
   What have we accomplished thus far? In considering this modification of our trade relationship with China, it is helpful to examine the substance and scope of our most recent bilateral trade negotiations. 
   First, in April of 1999, the United States and China signed a bilateral agricultural cooperation agreement which removed unfair trade barriers to U.S. wheat, meat, citrus, and poultry products. The agreement signified a new era in our bilateral agricultural relationship, an era based on sound science and the mutual benefits of open markets. 
   When the agreement was signed, Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman stated it was a fundamental breakthrough for American agriculture. He estimated that Chinese trade restrictions had cost America's competitive producers billions of dollars in sales. This agreement to lift longstanding and contentious barriers to our grain,  citrus, and meat would have significant benefits in terms of greatly expanded exports of these products to the vast Chinese market. 
   Second, it is important to note the critical provisions of the bilateral WTO accession agreement signed by the United States and China in November of 1999. These provisions include: 
   First, on U.S. priority agricultural products, tariffs will drop from an average of 31 percent today to 14 percent by January of 2004, with even sharper declines for beef, poultry, pork, cheese, and other commodities. China will significantly expand export opportunities for bulk commodities, such as wheat, corn, and rice, and it will eliminate trade-distorting export subsidies. These are all goals that have been long sought by the United States. 
   Second, the industrial tariffs on U.S. products will fall from today's average of 24.6 percent--that was the average in 1997--to an average of 9.4 percent by 2005. 
   Third, China will participate in the information technology agreement and will eliminate tariffs on products such as computers, semiconductors, and related products by 2005. 
   Fourth, under the agreement, China will phase in trading rights and distribution services over 3 years and also will open up sectors related to distribution services, such as repair and maintenance, warehousing, trucking, and air courier services. 
   Presently, China severely restricts trading rights and the ability to own and operate distribution networks, both of which are essential to move goods and compete effectively in any market. 
   Fifth, the agreement opens China's market for services. For the first time, China will open its telecommunications sector and significantly expand investment and other activities for financial services firms. 
   It will greatly increase the opportunities open to professional services, such as law firms, management consulting, accountants, and environmental services. 
   Finally, with regard to safeguards, no agreement on WTO accession has ever contained stronger measures to strengthen guarantees of free trade and to address practices that distort trade and investment. For example, for the first 12 years of its WTO membership, China has agreed to a country-specific safeguard that is stronger and more targeted relief than that provided under our own current section 201 law. This safeguard applies to all industries, permits us to act based on a lower showing of injury, and permits the United States to act specifically against imports from China. 
   The agreement includes a provision recognizing that the United States may employ special methods designed for nonmarket economies to counteract dumping for 15 years after China's accession to the World Trade Organization. 
   For the first time, Americans will have a means to combat such measures as forced technology transfer, mandated offsets, local content requirements, and other practices intended to drain jobs and technology away from the United States. 
   However, if we fail to pass this legislation, all of these benefits--all of the benefits which I have just enumerated--will be lost. 
   So what is at stake? With the passage of this legislation, and China's accession to the WTO, the United States stands to reap enormous benefits. 
   My home State of Florida provides many excellent examples of this potential windfall. 
   In 1998, China was Florida's 11th largest export market. Under this negotiated accession agreement, China will reduce tariffs on fresh citrus by 70 percent, on vegetables by up to 60 percent, and on poultry by 50 percent. 
   In addition, China will substantially reduce tariffs on value-added wood products and will eliminate tariffs on a wide variety of information technology products and civil aircraft materials, all of which are important export industries for Florida. 
   We must accept the fact that China is going to be a member of the World Trade Organization. One obligation of the World Trade Organization is to provide every other member with unconditional normal trade relations status. In order for the United States to fulfill our WTO commitments, we must grant China permanent normal trade relations status. 
   By refusing to grant China permanent normal trade relations status, we only deny benefits to ourselves. In fact, if we fail to give them permanent normal trade relations status, every other WTO member country--every other country in the world--will be able to take advantage of the benefits that we negotiated except ourselves. Voting no on this measure does not deny anything to China, but it will put all U.S. industry and agriculture at a severe disadvantage in relation to our competitors around the world. 
   Furthermore, China will enjoy all the benefits of WTO membership, and it will still have the same access to the U.S. market that they have had for 21 years. 
   As many Americans, I have been concerned about China's compliance with trade agreements. In the past, it has taken intensive work to assure that the Chinese fully comply with the provisions of trade agreements that we have negotiated with 
   them. 
   I am certain that compliance will continue to be an issue that will require close monitoring. It will require considerable and sustained effort. It is important to note that thus far, China has lived up to the concessions the U.S. gained as a result of the April 1999 agricultural cooperation agreement. 
   For the first time in over two decades, the Chinese have opened their market to wheat from the Pacific Northwest. They have already purchased 50,000 metric tons of wheat. In an important breakthrough for the Florida citrus industry, the first shipment of fresh citrus from Florida left for China during the last week of March of this year. 
   In his May 3, 2000, testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee, former Commerce Secretary William Daley stated that the administration intends to vigorously monitor and aggressively enforce the terms of this agreement. To that end, the administration has requested a $22 million budget increase to fund new compliance and enforcement resources for Commerce, the U.S. Trade Representative's Office, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the State Department. 
   He also outlined the administration's five-point plan for monitoring China's compliance with its commitments and ensuring that we will get the full benefits of the WTO from our bilateral agreement. 
   The plan includes: One, a rapid response compliance team, led by a new Deputy Assistant Secretary for China within the Commerce Department; two, prompt redress of market access problems with tight deadlines for investigating market access and commercial problems inside China; three, statistical monitoring of Chinese trade flows and a special trade law enforcement program modeled on the import surge monitoring program established for the steel industry; four, a comparative law dialog and technical assistance to closely monitor China as it amends its laws and regulations; and fifth and finally, a China-specific WTO training and export promotion program to assure that our exporters take advantage of all the opportunities presented by China's new commitments. 
   Those were the commitments made on behalf of the President and the administration by the former Secretary of Commerce, William Daley. The new Secretary of Commerce, Norman Mineta, restated the Department's commitment to implementing such enhancements in a July 27, 2000, speech at the Washington International Trade Association. 
   I have asked myself this question: Is compliance better served by granting or denying China permanent normal trade relations status? 
   By denying them permanent normal trade relations status, we will be prevented from using the dispute settlement tools that exist within the WTO system, tools such as the bilateral dispute mechanism, where the United States has won 23 of the 23 cases that we have pressed before that panel. 
   It seems clear to me, then, that U.S. trade with China under the auspices of a multinational body such as the World Trade Organization can be more easily monitored, with fewer political obstacles, than can trade on a strictly bilateral basis. 
   In summary, the U.S. goal of an open Chinese market is more likely to be  achieved through the WTO discipline than by unilateral actions. Denying China permanent normal trade 
   relations status gives us no additional leverage with the Chinese Government. In fact, it serves exactly the opposite purpose. 
   Denying China PNTR status does not in any way constrain China. They receive all the benefits of any WTO member. Denying them PNTR status will only hurt us, the United States of America, by preventing our workers and our companies from taking advantage of the benefits that we have for so long negotiated and now have achieved. This will actually help China keep our goods out of its market and make it easier for them to ignore compliance with the bilateral agreement. More importantly, we will also deny ourselves the special surge protections that were negotiated in the bilateral agreement. These surge protections are particularly critical for industries such as steel. 
   Again, it seems clear we will be more likely to get compliance to the agreement from China by using these special surge protections and the WTO dispute settlement mechanism than we would without them. 
   To me, the implications of a denial of permanent normal trade relations to China are clear, ominous, and negative. 
   The historical importance and gravity of this vote cannot be overstated. Given the current state of the world and the almost universal recognition of the United States as the lone remaining global superpower, economically, militarily, politically, culturally, the next President of the United States may well represent the most powerful concentration of power in one human being in the history of this planet. How he exercises such enormous power in foreign affairs will be critical in shaping the future of this planet. Granting permanent normal trade relations to China, working to strengthen ties between our two nations, further developing a relationship of mutual respect and peace are all critically important challenges which we, the world's superpower, must be ready to meet. 
   We stand on the threshold of a new and substantially improved economic relationship with the People's Republic of China. By voting yes, we will reaffirm the leadership of the United States in matters of trade and global economic expansion. 
   I ask my colleagues to oppose the Thompson amendment, reserving the complex issues of global proliferation to a more comprehensive measure, avoiding the likely consequence that by the passage of the Thompson amendment, we will kill permanent normal trade relations with China. Rather, I urge our colleagues to vote in favor of permanent normal trade relations with the People's Republic of China and, by so doing, vote in favor of a policy of constructive engagement, mutual respect, and peace among our peoples. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Mr. Jason McNamara, a fellow in my office, be granted the privilege of the floor during the remainder of the debate on this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   September 8, 1999: 
   Frederick Boone, 37, Baltimore, MD; Franklin Brown, 41, Seattle, WA; Rico Brown, 25, Baltimore, MD; Antonio Daniely, 24, Atlanta, GA; Anthony Harris, 17, Cincinnati, OH; Bruce A. Howard, 35, Madison, WI; Fred Miller, 76, St. Louis, MO; Victor Manuel Rios-Baheva, 35, Salt Lake City, UT; Robert Somerville, 21, Baltimore, MD; Robert Winder, Jr., 23, Baltimore, MD; Unidentified Male, 19, Norfolk, VA. 
   One of the gun violence victims I mentioned, 41-year-old Franklin Brown of Seattle, was shot and killed by a stranger who approached him in the street and started an argument. Franklin died from several gunshot wounds to his back. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I'd like to join Chairman STEVENS and my colleague from Florida in this colloquy to address this important issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. This will be the only SAR facility of its kind in the east, and the Department of Defense has indicated to us, its' strong interest in developing this capability further in South Florida. It was for this reason that we asked the Senate to approve, which it did, an amendment for up to an additional $5 million dollars specifically for drug interdiction activities at the facility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I look forward to working with Senator MACK and Chairman STEVENS to secure funding for this important project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, joined by Senators HOLLINGS, BREAUX, and CLELAND, to introduce the Port and Maritime Security Act of 2000, a bill that would significantly improve the overall security and cargo processing operations at U.S. seaports. 
   For some time, I have very been concerned that seaports--unlike our airports, lack the advanced security procedures and equipment that are necessary to prevent acts of terrorism, cargo theft and drug trafficking. In addition, although seaports conduct the vast majority of our international trade, the activities of law enforcement and trade processing agencies--such as the Coast Guard, Customs, the Department of Agriculture, the FBI, and state and local agencies--are often uncoordinated and fragmented. Taken together, the lack of security and interagency coordination at U.S. seaports present an extremely attractive target for criminals and a variety of criminal activities. 
   Before discussing the specifics of this legislation, it is important to describe the circumstances that have caused the security crisis at our seaports. Today, U.S. seaports conduct 95 percent of the Nation's international trade. Over the next twenty years, the total volume of imported and exported goods at seaports is expected to increase three-fold. 
   In addition, the variety of trade and commerce that are carried out at seaports has greatly expanded. Bulk cargo, containerized cargo, passenger cargo and tourism, intermodal transportation systems, and complex domestic and international trade relationships have significantly changed the nature and conduct of seaport commerce. This continuing expansion of activity at seaports has increased the opportunities for a variety of illegal activities, including drug trafficking, cargo theft, auto theft, illegal immigration, and the diversion of cargo, such as food, to avoid safety inspections. 
   In the face of these new challenges, it appears that the U.S. port management system has fallen behind the rest of the world. We lack a comprehensive, nationwide strategy to address the security issues that face our seaport system. 
   Therefore, in 1998, I asked the President to establish a Federal commission to evaluate both the nature and extent of crime and the overall state of security in seaports and to develop recommendations for improving the response of Federal, State and local agencies to all types of seaport crime. In response to my request, President Clinton established the Interagency Commission on Crime and Security in U.S. Seaports on April 27, 1999. 
   Over the past year, the Commission has conducted on-site surveys of twelve (12) U.S. seaports, including the Florida ports of Miami and Port Everglades. At each location, interviews and focus 
   group sessions were held with representatives of Government agencies and the trade community. The focus group meetings with Federal agencies, State and local government officials, and the trade community were designed to solicit their input regarding issues involving crime, security, cooperation, and the appropriate government response to these issues. The Commission also visited two large foreign ports--Rotterdam and Felixstowe--in order to assess their security procedures and use their standards and procedures as a ``benchmark'' for operations at U.S. ports. 
   In February of this year, the Commission issued preliminary findings which outlined many of the common security problems that were discovered in U.S. seaports. Among other conclusions, the Commission found that: (1) intelligence and information sharing among law enforcement agencies needs to be improved at many ports; (2) many ports do not have any idea about the threats they face, because vulnerability assessments are not performed locally; (3) a lack of minimum security standards at ports and at terminals, warehouses, and trucking firms, leaves many ports and port users vulnerable to theft, pilferage, and unauthorized access by criminals; and (4) advanced equipment, such as small boats, cameras, vessel tracking devices, and large scale x-rays, are lacking at many high-risk ports. Although the Commission's final report will not be released until later this summer, I have worked closely with them to draft this legislation. 
   The legislation Senator HOLLINGS and I are introducing today will begin to address the problems of our seaports by directing the Commandant of the Coast Guard, in consultation with the Customs Service and the Maritime Administration, to establish a Task Force on Port Security. The new Task Force on Port Security will be responsible for implementing all of the provisions of our legislation. It will have a balanced representation, including Federal, State, local, and private sector representatives familiar with port operations, including port labor. 
   To ensure full implementation of this legislation, the bill requires the U.S. Coast Guard to establish local port security committees at each U.S. seaport. Membership of these committees will include representatives of the local port authority, labor organizations, the private sector, and Federal, State, and local government officials. The committees will be chaired by the local U.S. Coast Guard Captain-of-the-Port. 
   In addition, our bill requires the Task Force on Port Security to develop a system of providing port security threat assessments for U.S. seaports, and to revise these assessments at least every three years. The local port security committees will participate in the analysis of threat and security concerns. 
   Perhaps most important, the bill requires the Task Force to develop voluntary minimum security guidelines for seaports, develop a ``model port'' concept for all seaports, and include recommended ``best practices'' guidelines for use by maritime terminal operators. Again, local port security committees are to participate in the formulation of these security guidelines, and the Coast Guard is required to pursue the international adoption--through the International Maritime Organization and other organizations--of similar security guidelines. 
   Some States and localities have already conducted seaport security reviews, and have implemented strategies to correct the security shortfalls that they have discovered. In 1999, Florida initiated comprehensive security review of seaports within the state. Led by James McDonough, Director of the governor's Office of Drug Control, the review found that 150 to 200 metric tons of cocaine--or fifty percent of the U.S. total-flow into Florida annually through ports throughout the state.  
   Both the Florida Legislature and the Florida National Guard recognized the need to address this growing problem and acted decisively. Legislation was introduced in the Florida Senate that called for the development and implementation of statewide port security plans, including requirements for minimum security standards and compliance inspections. In fiscal year 2001, the Florida National Guard will commit $1 million to provide counter-narcotics support at selected ports-of-entry to both strengthen U.S. Customs Service interdiction efforts and enhance overall security at these ports. 
   In a July 21, 2000, editorial in the Tallahassee Democrat, Mr. McDonough identifies the evaluation of Florida's seaports and the implementation of security standards as a priority initiative in stemming the flow of drugs into Florida. 
   We realize that U.S. seaports are a joint federal, state, and local responsibility, and we seek to support comprehensive port security efforts such as the one in Florida. Therefore, our bill provides significant incentives for both port infrastructure improvements and research and development on new port security equipment. 
   The bill authorizes the Maritime Administration to provide title XI loan guarantees to cover the costs of port security infrastructure improvements, such as cameras and other monitoring equipment, fencing systems, as well as other physical security enhancements. The authorization level of $10 million annually, for four years, could guarantee up to $400 million in loans for seaport security enhancements. 
   In addition, the legislation will also establish a matching grant program to develop and transfer technology to enhance security at U.S. seaports. The U.S. Customs Service may award up to $12 million annually, for four years, for this competitive grant program. 
   We also must improve the reporting on, and response to, seaport crimes as they take place. Therefore, the bill requires the Attorney General to coordinate reports of seaport related crimes and to work with State law enforcement officials to harmonize the reporting of data of cargo theft. To facilitate this coordination, the bill authorizes $2 million annually, for four years, to modify the Justice Department's National Incident-Based Reporting System. It also authorizes grants to states to help them modify their reporting systems to capture crime data more accurately. 
   In order to pay for all of these important initiatives, the bill would reauthorize an extension of tonnage duties through 2006. It would also make available $40,000,000 from the collection of these duties to carry out all of the provisions of the Port and Maritime Security Act. Currently, the collection of tonnage duties is not directed towards a specific program. Implementing the provisions of the Port and Maritime Security Act of 2000 will produce concrete improvements in the efficiency, safety, and security of our nation's seaports, and will result in a demonstrable benefit for those who currently pay tonnage duties. 
   Seaports play one of the most critical roles in expanding our international trade and protecting our borders from international threats. The ``Port and Maritime Security Act'' recognizes these important responsibilities of our seaports, and devotes the necessary resources to move ports into the 21st century. I urge my colleagues to look towards the future by supporting this critical legislation--and by taking action to protect one of our most valuable tools in promoting economic growth. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print the July 21, 2000 editorial from The Tallahasee Democrat in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today along with my Finance Committee colleague, Senator MACK, I am introducing the Professional Employer Organization Workers Benefits Act of 2000. This legislation will expand retirement and health benefits for workers at small and medium-sized businesses in this country. 
   The bill makes it easier for certified professional employer organizations (PEO's) to assist small and medium-sized businesses in complying with the many responsibilities of being an employer. It permits PEO's to collect Federal employment taxes on behalf of the employer and provide benefits to the small business' workers. For many of these workers, the pension, health and other benefits that a PEO provides would not be available from the small business itself because they are too costly for the small business to provide on its own. The average client of a PEO is a small business with 18 workers and an average wage of $20,000. PEO's have the expertise and can take advantage of economies of scale to provide health and retirement benefits in an affordable and efficient manner. 
   A recent Dunn & Bradstreet survey of small businesses reveled that only 39 percent offered health care and just 19 percent offer retirement plans. We must take every opportunity to assist these small businesses in providing retirement and health benefits to their employees. PEO's offer one creative way to bridge the gap between what workers need and what small businesses can afford to provide. In fact, one analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons estimates that 40 percent of companies in a PEO coemployment relationship upgrade their total employee benefits package as a result of the partnership with the PEO. Twenty-five percent of those companies offer health and other benefits for the first time. 
   Over the past few years, small and medium-sized businesses have sought out the services offered by PEO's. In response, many states have created programs to recognize, license and regulate PEO's to ensure that a viable industry could grow. Unfortunately, federal law has not kept pace. Current rules for who can collect employment taxes and provide benefits do not fit with the PEO model. Under some interpretations, PEO's would be prohibited from performing the very services that small businesses are asking them to undertake. 
   This legislation clarifies the tax laws to make it clear that PEO's meeting certain standards will be able to assist small businesses in providing employee benefits and collecting Federal employment taxes. This bill is a narrower version of a provision that was included in the pension legislation I sponsored in the last Congress. This new bill incorporates comments we received from interested parties over the course of the past year, including those received from the Treasury and Labor Departments. As a result the bill we are introducing today is much improved from previous versions. 
   In addition, I would like to make clear what this bill does not do. Unlike earlier versions, this legislation applies only to PEO's, and not to temporary staffing agencies. Further, this bill applies only to the two specific areas of tax law--employment taxes and employee benefits. It does not affect any other law nor does it affect the determination of who is the employer for any other purpose. The bill specifically provides that it creates no inferences with respect to those issues. 
   I am hopeful that, with this narrower focus, this legislation can be considered on its own merits, without getting bogged down in larger disputes involving contingent workforces and independent contractors. Those issues are important ones that Congress may want to examine, but we should not allow them to delay resolution of the unrelated PEO issued addressed by this bill. 
   I look forward to working with Senator MACK, my other colleagues on the Finance Committee, and the administration to move this bill during the 106th Congress so that we can help small- and medium-sized businesses operate more efficiently while at the same time expanding the benefits available to their workers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I rise today to introduce the Omnibus Long-term Care Act of 2000 with my colleagues Senators GRASSLEY, MIKULSKI, BAYH, BREAUX, COLLINS, and AKAKA. 
   Americans in need of long-term care now face a fragmented and inadequate system of state and federal programs. This is no longer acceptable. Millions are struggling today to meet their long-term care needs, and these numbers will grow dramatically as the country ages. While Medicare reform is important, we will have accomplished little if we address seniors' acute care needs, but then leave them to suffer in poverty when they require long-term care. 
   I am pleased to introduce bipartisan legislation that demonstrates the Senate's commitment to addressing this issue in a comprehensive way. The Omnibus Long-term Care Act of 2000 will  help millions of seniors and their caregivers who are struggling in our communities, while also encouraging all Americans to better plan for their own retirements. 
   Many seniors move to Florida with plans of a comfortable retirement, but all too often, these hopes are never realized. A stroke or Alzheimer's Disease strikes and a family is quickly overwhelmed by their long-term care costs and responsibilities. To complicate matters, many spouses of disabled seniors are frail themselves, and so find it increasingly difficult to meet the needs of their loved ones. 
   Caregiving is also a huge concern for the millions of Americans in the sandwich generation, those who are caring both for their children and their parents, while also balancing work obligations. Almost one-third of all caregivers is juggling employment and caregiver responsibilities, and of this group, two-thirds have conflicts that require them to quit work, cut hours, or turn down promotions. 
   It is clear that too many Americans are now being forced to sacrifice their health and their careers to care for their loved ones. To help, this bill: provides the disabled or their caregivers with a $3,000 long-term care tax credit; implements the National Family Caregiver Support Program, which will provide caregivers with information and services to help them meet their responsibilities; increases Social Services Block Grant funding for community-based long-term care services; and ensures that seniors can return to their nursing home after hospitalization. 
   This bill can also avert the long-term care crisis that will result if we do nothing to prepare for the aging of the Baby Boomers. Millions who are struggling to care for their parents today will soon need long-term care themselves. Baby Boomers had a higher divorce rate and fewer children than today's seniors, so they will not have the same support network that today's retirees enjoy. 
   With more seniors needing more paid help in the future, costs will skyrocket. According to the Congressional Budget Office, individual out-of-pocket costs for long-term care could nearly double from $43 billion today to $82 billion in 2020, and government's costs could increase from $73 billion to $125 billion in the same period. It is clear that future retirees and the government cannot afford business as usual. 
   We must ask all Americans to take more responsibility for their own long-term care needs. To help bring this about, this bill: offers a tax deduction for the premiums of long-term care insurance policies; provides long-term care insurance to federal employees; authorizes a national public information campaign to educate employers and employees about the benefits of long-term care coverage; mandates a federal survey to determine whether cities and counties are ``elder-ready;'' calls for studies to determine how best to meet Americans' future long-term care needs; and includes a Sense of the Senate affirming the body's commitment to ensuring seniors' physical, emotional, and financial well-being in the new century. 
   The long-term care crisis we face demonstrates that we have neglected this issue for far too long. But we must act now. The large number of seniors and their caregivers who are suffering in our communities today and the future needs of the Baby Boomers require it. A big problem requires a big solution, and this bill helps protect seniors today and in the future. 
   All of the cosponsors of this legislation have championed the need to meet seniors' long-term care needs. The fact that we have all come together in a bipartisan manner demonstrates that the Senate is committed to addressing this issue in a meaningful way. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the many organizations that support this bill to make comprehensive long-term care reform a reality. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, Senator MACK and I offer this amendment that will correct an injustice being done to nursery growers in south Florida impacted by Hurricane Irene in October of 1999. 
   On October 15, Florida was hit with Hurricane Irene. 
   Following closely on the heels of Hurricane Floyd, a storm that caused a disaster declaration in 13 states, Hurricane Irene dropped over nine inches of rainfall on average across Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade Counties. 
   Three-day rainfall totals at specific measuring sites throughout this area ranged between 10.88 and 17.47 inches. 
   Nineteen Florida counties received a major disaster declaration. 
   At the height of the storm, more than 1 million people lost power. 
   Agriculture losses from Hurricane Irene totaled over $438 million. 
   In total, seven deaths were attributed to Irene's visit to the Florida coastline.  
   Last year, Congress specifically provided $186 million in ``additional resources for damage caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters in Florida and other states'' under Title I--Emergency Supplemental Appropriations of the FY 2000 Omnibus Appropriations Act. 
   This crop loss assistance was provided in addition to the $1.2 billion previously allocated under the Crop Disaster Program to respond to farmers who suffered losses due to ``adverse weather and related conditions.'' 
   In executing this program, the Farm Service Agency (FSA) has made the determination that nursery, unlike other Florida crops damaged by Hurricane Irene, will not be eligible for Crop Disaster Program assistance. 
   FSA indicates that nursery is ineligible because the program is limited to losses in the 1999 crop year, and the hurricane damage occurred after the FSA-set 2000 crop year had begun. 
   The hurricane damage occurred on October 16-17, 1999, and the 2000 nursery crop year, according to FSA, began on October 1, 1999. 
   By all accounts, the FSA's crop year determination was made on an arbitrary basis as nursery does not have a traditional crop year and crops are grown on a year-round basis. 
   By contrast, the Risk Management Agency had a similar problem and made a special dispensation for the nursery crop year to provide eligibility for hurricane losses under the federal crop insurance program. 
   The Florida delegation has made a concerted attempt to work closely with the Department since the hurricane damage occurred. 
   On December 9, 1999 FSA representatives briefed the Florida delegation on disaster assistance available to Florida farmers, and we were informed that Crop Disaster Program assistance would be available to respond to hurricane-related farm losses in Florida. 
   Today, it is still not available. 
   The amendment we offer today will ensure that nursery stock losses due to Hurricane Irene will be eligible for relief under the Crop Disaster Program. 
   Mr. President, the intent of Congress was clear--that losses in Florida due to natural disasters should be covered by the Crop Disaster Program. 
   I hope that my colleagues will support our amendment that will provide clear direction to the U.S. Department of Agriculture and ensure that its actions meet the intent of Congress. 
   I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, members of the Senate, I rise before you today with my colleague, Senator MACK, to offer an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill on behalf of the Florida citrus industry. 
   Mr. President, if ever there was an industry in crisis, this is it. 
   Since last year, the Florida citrus industry has been besieged by the ravages of citrus canker. 
   Citrus canker is a disease that spreads rapidly through the air to infect grove after grove after grove. 
   There is no cure. 
   Once a tree becomes infected, it must be burned to the ground to prevent further spreading. 
   As part of an ongoing effort to eradicate citrus canker, the Animal Plant and Health Inspection Service (APHIS) issued a regulation requiring the destruction of all trees within a 1,900 foot radius of an infected tree. 
   The result is that hundreds of healthy trees are burned to the ground. 
   This government regulation is critical to eradication of citrus canker, but it increases the number of trees that are destroyed. 
   To date, over 1,500 acres of limes and oranges, have been burned. 
   In response, both the Governor and the Secretary of Agriculture declared a state of emergency in Florida due to the citrus canker outbreak. 
   Once destroyed, it takes between three and four years for a citrus tree to reach maturity and produce its maximum capacity of fruit. 
   The growers whose healthy trees are destroyed by the federal government are robbed of income today and income for the next three to four years. 
   I believe that the destruction of the healthy trees in accordance with federal regulation is in effect, a ``federal taking'' of private property for which Florida citrus producers should be compensated. 
   The Appropriations bill we are considering today provides the Secretary with authority to spend funds on compensation for growers who experience losses due to citrus canker. 
   Our amendment would modify this language to mirror language in the House-passed Agriculture Appropriations bill which provides up to $40 million for compensation of growers for citrus canker losses.  
   Our amendment ensures that Florida citrus growers whose trees are destroyed as a result of federal regulation are able to receive appropriate compensation. 
   I hope that my colleagues will join me in providing much needed assistance to an industry besieged by disease and severely impacted by a federal regulation which, while well-intentioned and important to the eradication of this disease, robs citrus growers of income from healthy trees for a three to four year period. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to join my distinguished colleague from Oklahoma, Senator INHOFE, upon the passage of our legislation to reauthorize the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and to create public and private incentives to reduce the cost of future disasters. 
   On June 1st, we will face the beginning of the 2000 Hurricane season, the National Weather Service has predicted that the United States will face at least three intense hurricanes during the next six months. 
   Coming just eight years after Hurricane Andrew damaged 128,000 homes, left approximately 160,000 people homeless, and caused nearly $30 billion in damage, this forecast reminds us of the inevitability and destructive power of Mother Nature. We must prepare for natural disasters now in order to minimize their devastating effects. 
   It is impossible to prevent violent weather. Our experiences since Hurricane Andrew--including the Northridge Earthquake, the Upper Midwest Floods, and Hurricanes Fran and Floyd--clearly demonstrate the overwhelming losses associated with major weather events. 
   However, Congress can reduce these losses by legislating a comprehensive, nationwide mitigation strategy. Senator INOFE and I have worked closely with our colleagues in the Senate, FEMA, the National Emergency Management Association, the National League of Cities, the American Red Cross, and numerous other groups to construct a comprehensive proposal that will make mitigation--not response and recovery--the primary focus of emergency management. In addition, I would like to recognize the efforts of Senator BOND, Chairman of FEMA's appropriations subcommittee, in working closely with us to pass this legislation. 
   This legislation amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act by: 
   Authorizing programs for pre-disaster emergency preparedness; 
   Streamlining the administration of disaster relief; 
   Controlling the Federal costs of disaster assistance; and 
   Providing real incentives for the development of community-sponsored disaster mitigation projects.  
   Mr. President, history has demonstrated that no community in the United States is safe from disasters. From tropical weather along the Atlantic Coast to devastating floods in the Upper Midwest to earthquakes in the Pacific Rim, all Americans have suffered as a result of Mother Nature's fury. 
   She will strike again. But we can avoid some of the excessive human and financial costs of the past by applying both what we have learned about disaster preparedness and by implementing new technologies that are available to mitigate against loss. 
   Florida has been a leader in incorporating the principles and practice of hazard mitigation into the mainstream of community preparedness. We have developed and implemented mitigation projects using funding from the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program, FEMA's Project Impact, and many other public-private partnerships. 
   All Americans play a role in reducing the risks associated with natural and technological hazards. Engineers, hospital administrators, business leaders, regional planners, emergency managers and volunteers each contribute to community-wide mitigation efforts. 
   A successful mitigation project may be as basic as the Miami Wind Shutter program. The installation of shutters is a cost-effective mitigation measure that has proven effective in protecting buildings from hurricane force winds, and in the process, minimizing direct and indirect losses to vulnerable facilities. These shutters significantly increase strength and provide increased protection of life and property. 
   For example, Hurricane Andrew did $17 million worth of damage to three hospitals in Miami. These facilities included Baptist, Miami South, and Mercy Hospitals. Through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, these hospitals were retrofitted with wind shutters. Six years after Hurricane Georges brushed against South Florida, this mitigation project paid real dividends. Mercy Hospital estimated that the $2 million investment in their shutters protected their $230 million medical complex. In addition, the track of this storm motivated evacuees to leave more vulnerable areas of South Florida to seek shelter. The protective shutters allowed this hospital to be used as a safe haven for 200 pregnant mothers, prevented the need to evacuate critical patients, and helped the staff's families to secure shelter during the response effort. 
   In July of 1994, Tropical Storm Alberto's impact on the Florida Panhandle triggered more than $500 million in federal disaster assistance. State and local officials concluded that the most direct solution to the problem of repetitive flooding was to remove or demolish the structures at risk. A Community Development Block Grant of $27.5 million was used to assist local governments in acquiring 388 extremely vulnerable properties. 
   The success of this effort was evident when the same area experienced flooding again in the spring of 1998. Although both floods were of comparable severity, the damages from the second disaster were significantly lower in the communities that acquired the flood prone properties. In summary, this mitigation project reduced the communities' vulnerability to loss. 
   Today, we will reinforce the working partnership between the federal government, the states, local communities and the private sector. In mitigating the devastating effects of natural disasters, it is also imperative that we control the cost of disaster relief. Our legislation will help both of these efforts. I thank my colleagues for their support of this initiative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would like to first thank my colleagues, Senators GORTON and BYRD for their support in obtaining $2 million in the Fiscal Year 2001 Interior Appropriations bill for the Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge. 
   Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge was established in 1991. It is 900 acres in Brevard County Florida which makes up the twenty mile section of coastline from Melbourne Beach to Wabasso Beach in Florida. It is the most important nesting area for loggerhead sea turtles in the western hemisphere and the second most important nesting beach in the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Despite the importance of this refuge to the loggerhead sea turtle, there is no refuge station at Archie Carr. The result is both a lack of educational opportunities for visitors and a lack of security at the refuge. I join my colleague, Senator MACK, in proposing that $200,000 of the funds provided by the Fiscal Year 2001 Interior Appropriations bill for the Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge be available for use by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for the purpose of site evaluation for a visitor center/research and education center. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I understand we are now debating the amendment as offered by Senator ROTH relative to repeal of the telephone tax. In the absence of anyone wishing to speak further on that issue, I want to offer the next amendment which relates to prescription medication. 
   I rise today for myself and Senators KENNEDY, ROBB, BRYAN, LINCOLN, ROCKEFELLER, DASCHLE, WELLSTONE, JOHN KERRY, and DORGAN to offer an amendment which will couple the estate tax, as presented by Senator DASCHLE, with an amendment to the budget resolution which dedicates an additional $40 billion of the new surplus dollars towards a Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   To put this in context, in the budget resolution, $40 billion with conditions was inserted for purposes of a Medicare prescription drug benefit. I believe that  no one will argue with the description of that $40 billion as being an arbitrary number; that is, it was not a number which was derived by some analysis of what was going to be required to fund an effective prescription medication benefit for the first 5 years of its availability. 
   I am here with a sense of disappointment. I am disappointed because I do not think the issue of the prominence that is being given to the estate tax repeal should be what we are debating on July 13 of the year 2000. I do not believe the issue of estate tax repeal, whatever absolute value one places upon it, is among the highest priorities of the American people and deserves the kind of time and attention it is receiving today. 
   I am also disappointed that this discussion of the estate tax has, frankly, become a charade. What is happening is that, on each side of the aisle, we are hurling a grenade at the other 
   side on the issue we think is the most popular or politically difficult to vote upon, such as the issue of repealing the telephone tax. We ought to be discussing what is a first priority to Americans, and I happen to believe that in that first tier is the issue of modernization of the Medicare program which just yesterday celebrated its 35th birthday. Unlike a human being who, after 35 years of life, would have largely grown and matured into adulthood, the Medicare program at 35 years of life is still very much as it was on the day it was born in 1965. 
   One of the areas in which it is still as it was when it was born in 1965 is the absence of a prescription medication benefit. Virtually every program today which finances the health care of Americans, from the Medicaid program, which is available to indigent Americans, to private health care financing programs, includes a prescription medication benefit. Medicare stands out as the exception to that rule. 
   What is especially ironic to that exception is that some significant things have happened in the 35 years we have had the Medicare program. One of those things is that the characteristics of the American Medicare-eligible population have changed. When Social Security was established in the 1930s, the average American would only live a few years, generally 7 years or fewer, after they had reached the age of 65. Today the average American male will live 15 years after he reaches the age of 65, and the average American female will live to be 85. Those numbers will dramatically increase during the 21st century as new medical breakthroughs extend the age of life. 
   The significance of that aging process on the Medicare program is that it makes services through Medicare which were irrelevant or unnecessary when the program commenced now a center part of American health care, programs such as prevention of illness, those things we now know how to do to intervene and to avoid a condition degenerating into a fatality. 
   It also fails to adequately cover chronic condition management, which is a very typical circumstance for persons who live into their eighties or nineties. Both of those, prevention and chronic condition management, almost always involve prescription medication as an important part of the treatment regime, and yet our Medicare program fails to provide a prescription medication benefit. 
   I believe if we are going to have a prescription medication benefit--and it is critical that we do so--that we also be realistic. Part of that realism is a recognition that this is not going to be an inexpensive additional benefit if it is to be meaningful. 
   As an example, the typical private sector health care plan today is spending between 15 and 20 percent of its total outlays on prescription drugs. For those programs that focus on persons over the age of 65, the percentage for prescription drugs is in excess of 25 percent of all expenditures. Yet with the structure of the program that was adopted in the budget resolution--that is, $40 billion for the first 5 years of the program--this would result in a prescription medication benefit that would represent less than 10 percent of the cost of what we are spending on prescription medication. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Therefore, I urge we adopt this amendment 
   which will allow us to have a more reasonable allocation of what has become a gush of new surplus funds to provide a prescription medication benefit that will be affordable, adequate, humane, and medically appropriate for America's older citizens. 
   Mr. President, I now send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, what we are about is to authorize that $40 billion of the new surplus which has come into the Federal Government and is projected to come over the next 5 years to be dedicated to the prescription medication benefit. This would allow for a total of $80 billion to be committed to this program. 
   The result of that will be to bring the scale of the prescription medication benefit, as a totality of the Medicare program, somewhat into line with what other health care programs are spending on prescription medications today. 
   The reality is that prescription medications have been the fastest growing sector of American health care, increasing at a rate of 15 to 20 percent a year. The fact is, with the new breakthroughs in prescription medication,  there is likely to be further escalation of prescription medication costs. 
   We have incorporated in the bill that has been introduced, and which would be supported by this allocation of additional funds, that annual increase in the expected rate of prescription medication costs. It is our hope that through some of the procedures in this legislation--such as the encouragement for the use of generic drugs, the use of an intermediary called a pharmacy benefits manager, and multiple managers so that there will be competition between the pharmaceutical company and the Medicare beneficiary who is using those drugs--there will be efforts to restrain the enormous explosion in cost of prescription medication. 
   But I would have to honestly say to my colleagues that there is every indication the prescription medication will continue to be a rapidly growing source of medical expenditures. 
   I take this occasion to commend Senator ROTH, the chairman of the Finance Committee, for the legislation which he has, this week, outlined to the committee and to the American people. I think it is a very constructive contribution toward the goal of arriving at a prescription medication benefit that will serve the almost 40 million Americans who depend upon Medicare for their health care financing. 
   I suggest that if we had a more realistic allocation for the purpose of prescription medication, the proposal that Senator ROTH made would be even more advantageous to Medicare beneficiaries. Thus, I hope this amendment will be adopted and will give us the basis for a continuing dialog and discussion, leading to a prescription medication benefit that will serve America's needs. 
   One of the things that Senator ROTH has done in his proposal, which I think is especially significant, is to recognize that prescription drugs are a central part of a modern health care system. Some other proposals, particularly those emanating from the other Chamber, have treated prescription drugs as if they were the red-headed third cousin at the family picnic --something that is still outside the main circle of appropriate health care. 
   The fact is, in modern medicine, prescription drugs are a centerpiece, particularly as we make what I think is the most significant reform in the 35-year history of Medicare, and that is to move it from a program which was exclusively acute care--one that would provide extensive and very effective medical services if you had a dramatic incidence, such as a disease or an accident, but had almost no orientation towards trying to keep you healthy through effective prevention measures --to me it is that movement from essentially a sickness plan 
   to a wellness plan that is the most fundamental reform which Medicare must make now in its 35th year. And key to being able to do that is the inclusion of prescription medication. 
   Is this $40 billion that we are discussing an unrealistic number? Well, let me just give you these numbers. When we started this budget year, the assumption was that we would be dealing with a non-Social Security surplus, over the next 5 years, of $95 billion. We allocated $40 billion of that $95 billion to prescription drugs, or roughly 42 percent of the total non-Social Security surplus, for 5 years, was committed to this single purpose of financing a prescription drug benefit. 
   It is now estimated that when the next non-Social Security surplus, for 5 years, is calculated, it will be more in the range of $350 to $400 billion. We have had approximately a quadrupling of the non-Social Security surplus as a result of the strong economy from which we all so benefit. 
   Is it not appropriate, out of that additional $300 billion, to take another $40 billion and use it so that we can finance a prescription medication benefit at approximately the same level that private sector health care plans are financing prescription medication in terms of a percentage of total health care expenditures? 
   We are expending, this year, about $280 billion on Medicare. This benefit will add about $25 billion a year--half of which is the Federal component, half of which is the beneficiary's monthly payment. So we now will have a program with slightly over $300 billion. If we stay with that $25 billion number, we will have less than 10 percent of the total Medicare program to be in prescription drugs, while private health insurance for persons over 65 are spending 25 percent or more. 
   By adding this additional $40 billion, we will double that percentage to approximately 18 to 19 percent of total Medicare expenditures, which I think is the range that is going to be required in order to finance a reasonable, affordable, medically appropriate prescription medication benefit for America's older citizens. 
   Mr. President, I offer this amendment and urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, pursuant to section 904 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, I move to waive the applicable section of the act for the consideration of the pending amendment and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, was the Senator from New Mexico speaking on the opposition's time on our amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, when we adopted the budget resolution, we allocated $40 billion over 5 years to finance a prescription medication benefit. Two things have happened since then, and a third is about to happen. 
   The first thing that happened is we have recognized that $40 billion over 5, which is actually over 3 years that the prescription benefit will be available, would result in a prescription medication benefit that would be less than a third of the prescription medication benefit which most health insurance programs for over-65-year-olds provide. So we are about to propose going in with a grossly deficient prescription medication benefit if we restrict ourselves to the $40 billion. 
   The second thing that happened is we have new revenue estimates which have quadrupled the amount of surplus we are going to have. 
   The third thing is we have just made a series of decisions already tonight, which will be confirmed by final passage, to spend some $100 billion over 5 years for tax cuts, from the estate tax to the R&D tax to the phone tax cut we just passed, and if we pass the Social Security cut of Senator GRAMS. 
   How can we go home and say we can pass $100 billion over 5 years in these tax cuts but cannot add $40 billion which will allow us to finance a decent prescription benefit for 40 million American elderly? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, last year, on October 7, during the consideration of the FY 2000 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill, Senators RON WYDEN, GORDON SMITH and I offered an amendment which was accepted as part of the legislation that passed. 
   It directed the Department of Labor to send to Congress its suggestions, or a plan, to improve the day-to-day lives of farmworkers. 
   We are here again. The Labor-HHS Appropriations bill is being debated, and we are still awaiting answers to concerns raised in the last debate. 
   In fairness, I should mention that the Secretary of Labor has indicated that this report is underway and that we can expect it later this year. But yet another year has slipped by without the Administration designing a plan to improve the lives of those who do so much to provide for us. 
   The purpose of our amendment and speech last year was to outline the three previous years of frustration in our efforts to secure this plan from the Department of Labor. We sought legislatively what we had not been able to obtain in personal meetings and phone calls. Now, we are here again, on this same bill, asking for the same assistance. 
   For the past several years I have worked with several of our colleagues to develop a comprehensive strategy to improve the lives of our Nation's farmworkers. 
   Almost everyone agrees that the status quo is unacceptable. GAO estimates that at least 50 percent of agricultural workers in the United States do not have documented status. This is a conservative estimate since these are workers who have admitted their illegal status, the actual number without work authorization is likely much higher. 
   I respect the fact that the Department of Labor has concerns about our bipartisan legislation. What we have asked, year after year, is that they improve it, modify it, or offer their own alternate comprehensive plan. 
   I commend the work that the Department has done up to this point to respond to us, but I urge Secretary Herman to finish work on this proposal and submit it to Congress at the earliest possible opportunity. The legislative calendar is short this year, and we have no time to waste. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I understand that the Health Care Financing Administration has now cleared the NPRM, but there are other Departmental Agencies who now have questions about issuing the NPRM. I also concur with my colleague Senator MACK, that this issue has remained unresolved for too long, and I also believe it would be appropriate to include language to mandate this change. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the issue before us today is whether we are going to give the American people what I believe they expect and what they have a right to receive which is uniform, consistent coverage of their fundamental rights as beneficiaries of an HMO contract and as patients in a health care facility as it relates to the responsibilities of that health maintenance organization. 
   The Senator from Oklahoma has indicated he is going to submit to us a counterproposal to the provision that has been offered by the Senator from North Dakota, which focuses on one of the most fundamental issues and that is, who is going to be covered. 
   It is a little difficult for us to respond to the Senator from Oklahoma since at least none of us on this side of the aisle has had an opportunity to see the version of the amendment that will be offered. It is similar to seeing a biplane fly by with a long sign dragging behind its tail. That is what we see--a long, fluttering sign that says Patients' Bill of Rights. But we can't see any of the detail that supports that title of a Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   The question raised by the amendment of the Senator from North Dakota is whether we should have a nationwide standard or whether we should have 50 standards. 
   We have already answered that question as it relates to the 39 million Americans who are covered by Medicare. We have a national standard for all of those 39 million Americans. 
   We have answered that question for the 20 to 25 million Americans who get their health care through the Medicaid program. All of those people are covered by a national standard. 
   The question is whether we are going to provide for those people who get their insurance through private HMO companies rather than through one of these governmental programs to also be granted the right to have a national standard. 
   The amendment Senator DORGAN has proposed would cover all 161 million Americans with private insurance. They will receive the same full array of protections. The proposal that I anticipate from the Senator from Oklahoma will only fund one type of insurance: self-funded employer plans, which cover only 48 million Americans. The others will be left out. 
   I take second place to no Member of this body in terms of my support for federalism. I basically believe in the principle that, where possible, decisions should be made at the community and State level. So I consider it incumbent upon myself to answer the question: Aren't you being inconsistent by now supporting a national standard of patients' rights? Why not leave it up to the 50 States to decide for the 113 million Americans who have private insurance rather than self-funded employer plans? Why shouldn't those 113 million Americans be covered by a State's Patients' Bill of Rights? 
   I would like to answer that question in the context of one of the provisions within this bill, and that is how you will be treated if you go to an emergency room. I think it is an appropriate provision to use as an example of the larger question of whether this should be determined 50 times by the 50 States or should there be a national consistent standard. 
   The emergency room happens to be the site of the largest number of complaints by patients against their HMO's treatment. There are more complaints as to access, as to standard of care, 
   and as to care after the initial critical services are provided, there are more complaints by patients in that setting than any other aspect of patient-HMO relationships. 
   The emergency room is also a setting which is heavy with urgency and emotion. That is not just watching ``ER'' on television; it is the emergency room in reality. 
   I have a practice of taking a different job every month. In February of this year, my job was working at the emergency room in one of the largest hospitals in Florida, St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa. In that setting, I had an opportunity, firsthand, to see some of the issues that an emergency room poses for an HMO patient, such as the question of the patient arriving and asking the question: Am I going to be covered for the services that I will secure from this emergency room? 
   Am I entitled to access to the emergency room? 
   It is the question of: Have I come to the right emergency room? Should I have gone to the emergency room that is part of the plan of my HMO or can I go to this emergency room because it is a half hour closer? 
   It is the question of: What is going to happen after they stop the hemorrhaging and have moved into the poststabilization period? What kind of services can I receive, and what types of authorization do I have to get from my HMO to be certain that those services are going to be paid for? 
   Those are very fundamental, tangible questions that a family who is taking a loved one to an emergency room will want to have answered. 
   I suggest it would be preferable to all of the parties involved in this urgent transaction in an emergency room if there were a standard set of answers, whether you were in Tampa or Topeka or Tacoma, WA; that you would get the same answer. It would be beneficial to the beneficiary, to the patient, to know that there would be a consistent set of standards, that he would know, for instance, that he would be judged by the standard of ``the reasonable layperson'' in terms of access, 
   that he would not be judged, as happens to be the case in my own State of Florida, not by the reasonable layperson standard, which is the rule in Medicare and Medicaid and most States but, rather, as he is in Florida, by the standard of an appropriate health care provider making a determination after the fact as to whether the patient should or should not have considered his or her condition requiring emergency room treatment. 
   It also avoids confusion by the provider because the provider will know that they can render services to all the people who come into the emergency room based on a single set of standards in terms of what is in that individual's best interest. 
   Talking about emergency rooms specifically, as I understand it, in the provision of the Senator from Oklahoma, rather than using the norm, which is a 1-hour period in which the HMO can decide whether they will assume responsibility for the patient in the emergency room or allow the hospital of the emergency room to render poststabilization care, the Senator from Oklahoma is going to propose that that 1-hour standard, which is the standard for Medicare, for Medicaid, for most plans, is now going to be ballooned up to 3 hours. So for a person who has been in a serious automobile wreck, who has had bleeding, hemorrhaging, who is in very serious circumstances and has been stabilized but not yet cured or not yet cared for, we are going to have a 3-hour period for that individual to wait for the HMO to decide whether it is OK for the hospital where the injured patient is located to provide the care there, or is the patient going to have to be put in an ambulance and carried to one of their network hospitals. I don't think that confusion as to standard is good medical policy for the providers. It is even not good policy for the insurance companies that have to deal with 50 different State standards as to authorization, length of poststabilization care, the other issues that arise in an emergency room. 
   Mr. President, as a self-declared Jeffersonian Federalist, this is a case in which we need to have a national standard because it is for the benefit of the good health of the American people. I urge adoption of the amendment offered by the Senator from North Dakota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I come before you to today to discuss one of our nation's most valued assets--our National Parks. 
   Throughout the history of our country, visionary statesmen have arisen to remind us of the natural resource heritage on which our country rests. As early as 1903, President Theodore Roosevelt, spoke of the challenge at hand:  
   We must handle the woods, the water, the grasses so that we will hand them to our children and our children's children in better and not worse shape than we got them.  
   It is a challenge we still face today, and will into the future, in our role as stewards of the world in which we live. 
   Our system of National Parks and other public lands is the envy of the world. It serves as a model for other countries, as they also seek to preserve their natural and cultural heritage. No other country has set aside as full a spectrum of public lands--from wilderness to urban parks--for people to use and enjoy. But to just set them aside is, of course, not enough. The feature that makes these lands remarkable--that they are open and accessible to all Americans to enjoy--also threatens their existence in the future. 
   Mr. President, we face an ironic question: are we loving our national parks to death? The simple answer to that question is yes. 
   Earlier this year, the National Parks Conservation Association released its list of the Ten Most Endangered National Parks. We should all feel ashamed that they have so many endangered Parks from which to chose. This year's list includes National Parks across the country, from Alaska to Arizona, from Tennessee to Hawaii. It also includes Everglades National Park in my 
   state of Florida, where decades of human manipulation have led to ecosystem destruction. 
   This list of the 2000 Ten Most Endangered National Parks is unfortunately not comprehensive, but is representative. During the past year I have visited several national parks to get a first hand view of the problem. From personal experience, I can enlarge the list of endangered national parks. 
   At Ellis Island National Monument, a facade of immaculate buildings hides an inventory of dilapidated historical structures. 
   At Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico, lack of maintenance and vandalism is leading to the deterioration of historical artifacts. 
   I recently witnessed a similar deterioration of marine-related artifacts at a park in my own state of Florida. 
   In April I participated in my 359th work day at Biscayne National Park, a chain of subtropical islands protecting mangrove shoreline, interrelated marine systems and the northernmost coral reef in the United States. This was my 4th workday in a National Park. 
   At Biscayne National Park, we Americans are in danger of losing a piece of our history. The HMS Fowey, an 18th century British warship, lies submerged in a highly unstable location. This very significant, national register site has been weakened by looting, prop-wash deflection, storms and other forces. The best choice available is to excavate the wreckage and recover whatever of the historical record we can. This kind of operation is well beyond the means of Biscayne National Park's annual operating budget. 
   My feelings about the National Park System are truly of wonder. The wonder that I feel at the treasures in our park system is only matched by my wonder at how we can take such treasures for granted. The importance of our National Parks should be reflected in our stewardship of the National Park System. We have failed to provide the National Park Service with the tools it needs to be good stewards of our National Parks. 
   Today, with my colleagues Senator AKAKA, Senator L. CHAFEE and Senator MCCAIN, I am introducing the ``National Parks Stewardship Act''. 
   I would also like to include for the record a letter from the National Parks Conservation Association expressing that organization's support for this legislation. 
   This legislation seeks to give the National Park Service the tools it needs to prepare for the next century. It also includes many of the proposals of others who feel strongly about the importance of our National Parks. 
   This bill gives park managers the protective tools needed to support the stewardship challenges of Theodore Roosevelt. We provide three types of tools: resource protection, financial tools and human resources. 
   The first element in the resource protection section of my bill deals with activities occurring outside park boundaries. 
   My inspiration for this was legislation introduced by the late Senator John Chafee who proposed the formation of ``park protection areas'' in 1986. John Chafee proposed that these areas be formed outside park boundaries to create the ``buffer zone'' needed for resource protection. 
   I identified strongly with this concept, having worked since the 1970's on a state-federal partnership for Everglades restoration that focuses heavily on providing a buffer zone for Everglades National Park. Today, the original boundaries of Everglades National Park are surrounded by Big Cypress Preserve, an expanded park boundary, and undeveloped land on the eastern side of the park. 
   It is as a memorial to John Chafee that I echo his provision in my bill, which I hope will become a permanent component of National Park stewardship. It is an honor to have LINCOLN CHAFEE, a fine statesman in his own right, as a co-sponsor. 
   The federal government must be unified in its stewardship of the National Parks. 
   My legislation requires that federal agencies taking action on lands bordering National Park units consult with the Department of the Interior to ensure such actions do not degrade or destroy National Park resources. 
   It also requires the Secretary of the Interior to prohibit actions on Interior lands that will adversely impact Park resources. 
   The second action I propose to protect park resources relates to park uses. 
   The National Park Stewardship Act requires that activities allowed in National Parks pass the test of compatibility with natural, cultural and historical resource protection. As our parks are used and enjoyed by visitors, we must ensure that park resources are not inadvertently damaged. For example, the Park Service recently issued regulations limiting or prohibiting the use of personal water craft in some areas. This action was only taken after the use of these water craft in some areas was allowed at intensities seriously degrading water and air quality, and threatening both park wildlife and other park visitors. 
   My bill requires the National Park Service to take action to protect these resources before damage occurs. Activities must be analyzed and the impacts understood before they are 
   authorized. It also asks the National Parks to seriously plan for the future, projecting visitation and use trends and identify needed personnel and facilities. 
   Another resource protection portion of the bill focuses on ensuring that our National Park System fully represents the history of our nation. Each year, a smaller percentage of the American population can trace its ancestry to those who landed at Plymouth rock, settled Jamestown, or fought in the American revolution. Many Americans are descended from people who crossed international boarders from the North or South, or landed at locations from the Florida Keys to the Aleutian Islands, from Ellis Island to the island of Oahu. All those who came to settle write their history alongside, and often atop the history of our country's native peoples. 
   The bill calls for a comprehensive look at the ethnic and cultural content of our National Park System. It asks the National Park Service to report this review to Congress, and to make recommendations on sites that might round out the American story. It encourages cultural/ethnic groups to nominate sites important to their heritage for inclusion in the System, and to recommend changes in the interpretation of present sites to improve historic accuracy. 
   America is etched with a rich historical record. I commend those who have  succeeded in adding important heritage sites to the National park System. Units like the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom, authorized by Congress in 1998, and the Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic Trail in California, tracing the path of a party of Spanish colonists in 1776, ensure that these events do not pass from our historical landscape. There are certainly many as equally important sites to consider. 
   Mr. President, I would like to include in the RECORD letters from the Ambassador of Spain and the Spanish Institute for Military History and Culture. These letters exemplify the willingness of those who contributed to the history of the United States to help in this effort. The Ambassador points out how the Institute's letter, ``opens the way for a cooperation between the two institutions that could result in a much better use of the many historical sites, of Spanish origin, on American soil. They could ``make the stones speak'' to many people in this country who are still unaware of a very rich and common heritage.'' I am sure other countries will be willing to help illustrate how the history of our country is linked to their own history. 
   Our National Park System, the treasured sites of American history, must contain the history of all Americans. If not, our National Park System is like a partially woven tapestry, depicting only part of the picture. Instead let our National Park System be woven, whole and beautiful, from the multi-colored threads of history of the people of these United States. 
   I hope this proposal will move us one step closer to a National Park System where all Americans should be entitled to see the role of their people in the exploration, settlement and development of this country. And I see it as complementing Senator AKAKA's bill, S. 2478, calling for a study on the ``Peopling of America,'' which I am honored to co-sponsor. 
   The second major section of the National Parks Stewardship act deals with financial resources. 
   Last year, I introduced legislation with Senators REID and MACK, S. 819, the National Park Preservation Act, that would provide dedicated funding to the National Park Service to restore and conserve the natural, cultural and historic resources in our park system. We continue to work toward final passage of S. 819. However, this bill alone does not meet all of the needs in our National Parks. 
   The need for construction and maintenance in National Parks is great. Backlog estimates range from 2 to 8 billion dollars, depending on the method of calculation. 
   In order to accommodate many visitors each year, some National Parks have facilities and services that rival those of towns or small cities. Along with these facilities come the problems of infrastructure maintenance and repair that are beyond the reach of annually appropriated budgets. 
   Even at Yellowstone National Park, certainly a crown jewel of the system, a dilapidated sewer system leaking untreated waste befouls what should be pristine streams and lakes. At Yellowstone, a park visited by over 3 million people a year, certainly we should provide the means for financing a new sewer system. 
   My colleague Senator MCCAIN addressed this need through his bill, S. 831, which would authorize a portion of park entrance fees to be used to secure bonds for these very necessary capital improvements. Bonding would seem to be a workable approach, if we could find an appropriate way for a federal agency to issue revenue bonds. 
   The National Parks Stewardship Act introduced today calls for the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Interior to study and report to Congress how National Parks could issue revenue bonds to meet such large infrastructure needs. 
   The authority to issue revenue bonds places into the hands of National Park superintendents a tool to generate the funds to make these repairs. 
   The second revenue provision I propose is to make the recreation fee program in operation as a demonstration since its authorization in 1996 into a permanent park program. The program has demonstrated that park visitors can get a good return on the fees they pay; a return paid out in better maintained facilities, improved visitor services, and all-in-all, a more enjoyable park visit. 
   To underscore the importance of recreation fee permanence, I, along with Senator GORTON, am introducing today the ``Recreation Fee Authority Act of 2000,'' a stand along piece of legislation containing these provisions. 
   In fiscal year 1999, the recreation fee demonstration program generated $176.4 million 
   in fee revenue at National Parks, National Forests, National Wildlife Refuges and Bureau of Land Management sites. Even more important than the amount collected is the fact that the large majority of the fees were retained at the site where collected for use in Park operations, maintenance, resource protection and visitor services. 
   Biscayne National Park, where I worked for a day in April, is one of the units benefitting from the recreation fee demonstration program. Last year, that park collected over $20,000 in recreation fees. At Biscayne, these funds were used to: 
   replace the broken tables and grills in the picnic area; 
   restore a historic breeze way trail across Elliott Key; and 
   renovate the public showers and bathrooms on Elliott Key, improving their accessibility for people with disabilities. 
   When park visitors see their ``fees at work'' in the form of improved facilities and services, research has shown that they understand and support the collection of an appropriate and reasonable fee. Over 95 percent of respondents to this year's National Survey on Recreation and the Environment felt reasonable fees were acceptable as a means for funding recreation services on public lands. 
   The recreation fee demonstration authority is temporary. If it is not extended or made permanent, Biscayne and other National Parks will lose this very necessary means to get the job done. Let's instead make this a permanent tool for National Park Stewardship. 
   In addition to revenue bonding and the recreation fee program, I propose the expanded use of Challenge Cost Share agreements, which allow the ``leveraging'' of Park Service appropriations with funds from the private sector and other federal agencies. 
   The final tool I propose in this legislation focuses on the professional skills of those we employ as the stewards for National Parks. Professionals typically attracted to the Service come from many fields, including education, recreation management, and the biological sciences. Today park managers must also demonstrate fiscal and program accountability and management planning, skills that are not found throughout National Park Service ranks. 
   I am proposing a pilot program, ``Professionals for Parks'', to attract needed skilled professionals to National Park Service careers. It will focus on recruiting at business schools across the country, offering talented graduates an entry level professional job within the National Park Service and a student loan buy-back program. 
   Professionals for Parks will add to National Park Service ranks the business management skills needed for better management, leading to long term stewardship. And we know this can make a difference. 
   We're looking for people like Nick Hardigg, a recent graduate of the Yale School of Management, who is now working as Chief of Concessions at Denali National Park. His financial analysis of the visitor transportation system in Denali led to a newly negotiated contract with the bus company. This contract allows for a healthy profit for the operator and for the first time in several years does not increase fees to park visitors. It also protects park resources by providing a quality transportation system. 
   It's a long way from the Ivy League to the Alaskan wilderness. Mr. Hardigg has made that journey, and has put his business skills to good use for National Park stewardship. 
   Mr. President, the National Park Stewardship Act is not calling for a revolution in the National Park System. It recognizes the value of what we have in the National Park System, recognizes what we stand to lose without immediate attention, and supplies the tools to the right people to tackle the job. 
   In closing I would like to recall the words of John Chafee, a visionary  statesman who helped craft much of the foundation on which our system of environmental protection rests. 
   In 1994, he reminded us of the importance of our Parks stewardship role:  
   I can think of no instance where the Government has designated an area as a park and years later people have looked back, regretted the decision, and tried to reverse it. As we continue to develop and extract resources from the remaining open spaces in our Nation, it is important that we ensure that there will always be places where people can get away and renew their spirits, breathe fresh air, and appreciate nature's gifts.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, joined by Senators DEWINE, MOYNIHAN, GRASSLEY, DODD, COVERDELL, and BIDEN, to introduce the Plan Colombia Trade Act, a bill that would provide additional trade benefits to the nations of the Andean Trade Pact, which includes Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. 
   This bill is an important component of Plan Colombia, which seeks to address not only the nation's crisis with respect to massive narcotrafficking and insurgent and paramilitary forces, but also focuses on Colombia's deep economic recession. The bill is consistent with U.S. policy of promoting trade and combating drugs on a regional basis, thereby ensuring that U.S. benefits and assistance provided to one nation do not adversely affect other nations in the immediate region. Such a strategy is the only way to avoid what is often described as the ``balloon effect,'' which has meant that the drug problem, at best, is displaced from one location to another. Finally, the bill would re-assert our commitment to promote economic growth and regional stability throughout the Andean region, and to provide alternatives to the cultivation and exportation of illegal narcotics. 
   Passage of this legislation by the Senate will signal the United States' support of the Andean Trade Pact's economic reform efforts, and will boost the confidence of both domestic and international investors in pursuing  business opportunities that create jobs and enhance international trade in the Andean region, particularly in Colombia. In addition, this bill would ensure that U.S. trade with these important nations is not adversely affected by the recent passage of the ``Trade and Development Act of 2000,'' which provided significant trade benefits to the Caribbean Basin. 
   To briefly summarize, the ``Plan Colombia Trade Act,'' would extend, for approximately one year, additional trade benefits to Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru-nations that currently benefit from the Andean Trade Preferences Act of 1991 (commonly known as the ATPA). New trade benefits would include some--but not all--trade benefits extended to the nations of the Caribbean Basin under the ``Trade and Development Act of 2000,'' which was signed by the President on May 18, 2000. Specifically, the bill would extend duty-free, quota-free treatment to apparel articles assembled or cut in ATPA beneficiary nations using yarns and fabric wholly formed in the United States, thereby achieving a measure of parity with the CBI nations, as well as expanding an important source of economic and employment growth for the U.S. textile and apparel industry. 
   In its March 2000 interim report, ``First Steps Toward a Constructive U.S. Policy in Colombia,'' a Council on Foreign Relations/Inter-American Dialogue Independent Task Force--which I co-chair with Brent Scowcroft--recommended the extension of the ATPA, to include the same benefits as those contained under the Caribbean Basin Initiative. Specifically, we recommended the following:  
   Indeed, Colombia's economic well-being is absolutely critical, and in this area the United States can be more helpful. Perhaps even more important than providing increased assistance to the Colombian government to support employment programs is assuring Colombia greater access to U.S. markets for its products. Extending trade-related benefits to Colombia would have a positive impact on the country's prospects for higher growth and employment levels.  
   Although the bill provides benefits to all ATPA beneficiaries, it is particularly critical to Colombia, which in 1998 exported 59 percent of all textiles and apparel from the Andean region to the U.S., two-thirds of which were assembled and/or cut from U.S. yarns and fabric. 
   This legislation addresses an important, albeit unintentional, contradiction in U.S. policy towards Colombia. With the recent passage of enhanced trade benefits to the countries of Caribbean Basin Initiative, Colombia stands to lose up to 150,000 jobs in the apparel industry. At least ten (10) U.S.-based companies that purchase apparel from Colombian garment manufacturers have already indicated their near-term intentions to shift production to CBI countries due to the significant cost savings associated with the new trade benefits afforded to the Caribbean basin. Some of these U.S. companies have utilized Colombia as a manufacturing base for over ten (10) years, providing desperately needed legitimate employment in the Colombian economy. 
   In summary, the immediate reaction of these companies to enhanced Caribbean trade benefits clearly demonstrates the negative effects of the CBI legislation on Colombia. It would be foolish for the Congress to approve a comprehensive aid package for Colombia, while simultaneously implementing legislation that puts tens of thousands of Colombians out of work. This bill will address that critical, unintended contradiction. 
   On a more comprehensive scale, passage of this legislation is critical to ensure that all nations in the Western Hemisphere can maintain their long-term competitiveness with Asian nations, particularly in the textile industry. At present, the textile products of most Asian nations are subject to quotas imposed by the Multi-Fiber Agreement, now known as the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing. This restriction on Asian textiles has enabled the nations of the Western Hemisphere to remain competitive, and further, the Andean region--specifically Colombia--has become a significant market for fabric woven in U.S. mills from yarn spun in the U.S., originating from U.S. cotton growers. 
   However, in 2005, these Asian import quotas will be phased out. At that time, textile production in both the Andean region and the Caribbean basin will be placed at a distinct and growing disadvantage. Disinvestment in the region will occur, reducing the incentive to use any material from U.S. textile mills or cotton grown in the United States. 
   BACKGROUND
   Seventeen years ago, the U.S. Congress passed the first legislation to provide trade preferences to the twenty-seven countries of the Caribbean Basin. In 1983, the Caribbean Basin was a region inflamed with violent conflict and rampant drug trafficking that threatened the political and 
   economic stability of our closest neighbors, as well as our own national security. The primary goal of the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI) was to stabilize the region by building stronger and more diverse economies, encouraging growth in international trade, developing a strong economic relationship between the U.S. and the region, and creating employment opportunities in the legitimate economy as an alternative to drug trafficking. 
   Following enactment of CBI, the U.S. trade position with the region improved from a deficit of $3 billion in 1983, to a surplus of nearly $3.5 billion in 1998. Between 1983 and 1998, U.S. exports to the region increased fourfold, while total imports from the region grew by less than 20 percent. On a per capita basis, the U.S. trade surplus with the region has consistently outpaced the U.S. trade surplus with any other region of the world--in fact, since 1995, U.S. exports to the CBI region have increased by almost 32 percent. 
   In 1991, after 8 years of resounding success in the CBI region, Congress passed the ATPA, providing CBI-like trade benefits to the countries of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. In the nine years following enactment of ATPA, U.S. exports to the Andean region have more than doubled--from $3.8 billion in 1991 to over $8.6 billion in 1998. U.S. exports to Colombia account for over half of this increase, growing from $2 billion in 1991 to $4.8 billion in 1998. During the same time period, Andean exports to the U.S. increased by almost 80 percent. In addition, in 1998, the U.S. achieved a $309 million trade surplus with the ATPA nations. Under ATPA, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru enjoyed the same trade benefits that we had extended to the CBI region. However, on May 18, 2000, the President signed the ``Trade and Development Act of 2000,'' which extended additional trade benefits--particularly with respect to textiles and apparel--to the nations of the CBI region. Therefore, our Andean trading partners are now likely to lose significant trade and investment opportunities that will shift to the CBI, given the additional trade benefits included in the ``Trade and Development Act of 2000.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as our distinguished colleague from Delaware has so eloquently said, the cuts which  this Labor/HHS appropriations bill imposes upon several of our most important social programs are simply unacceptable. 
   In 1996, I stood with Chairman ROTH as the Senate Finance Committee joined the House Ways and Means Committee in authorizing the social services block grant at $2.38 billion through 2003. This authorization was a part of our commitment to the states in the welfare reform laws. 
   The social service block grant allocates important funds to our states, enabling them to provide valuable services to our most needy citizens. 
   Because of this block grant, senior citizens receive Meals on Wheels. Neglected children receive foster care and adoption services. Working parents receive day care for their children and adult day care for their aging parents. Those being abused receive protective help. 
   These services have become an integral part of our communities, expanding and enriching the lives of our young and old, our poor and vulnerable. 
   If the social services block grant is cut to the draconian level appropriated by this bill ..... well, the future of these vital services is in grave danger. 
   We have already reneged once on this commitment--in 1998, when in an 11th hour budgetary slight-of-hand, we used title XX funds to finance our road and highway spending. 
   We revisited this topic again last year when, despite a vote of 59-37 in favor of restoring title XX to its authorized level of $2.38 billion, the social services block grant was again the victim of an end-game mugging, leaving only $1.7 billion of available funds. 
   The $1.1 billion cut to SSBG in the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education bill would have forced our states to operate with a budget that has been cut by 65%. 
   We return to the Floor time and time again on this issue because Congress continues to break the commitments it has made to our states. 
   We slash these important programs under the guise of fiscal prudence and we perpetuate the illusion that we are not ``breaking the budget caps.'' 
   But, what we are really doing is robbing Peter to pay Paul. 
   And, that means that we are not only breaking our promise to the states, we are reneging on the commitment that we made to our most vulnerable Americans. 
   It is imperative that these monies be restored, and that the funding of the social services block grant be restored to the authorized level of $1.7 billion. 
   I, along with Senators GRASSLEY, JEFFORDS, ROCKEFELLER, VOINOVICH, MOYNIHAN, WELLSTONE, and KENNEDY, was prepared to offer an amendment to restore funding to the social services block grant. 
   I am pleased that the Senator from Alaska has alleviated that need. 
   I appreciate the leadership Senator STEVENS is showing today by pledging to restore these funds to our important SSBG, S-CHIP and TANF programs. 
   I hope that this act represents the end of the long string of broken promises that we have made to states, localities, and most of all, our citizens in need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today I rise with my colleagues, Senator SMITH of New Hampshire, Senator BAUCUS, Senator VOINOVICH, and Senator MACK, to introduce legislation to restore America's Everglades. The diversity of this group speaks volumes about the national commitment to restoring America's Everglades. 
   The Everglades is sick. We need to perform the surgery to make it well. Since the passage of the Central and South Florida Flood Control Project in 1948, nearly half of the original Everglades has been drained or otherwise altered. According to the National Parks and Conservation Association, the national parks and preserves contained in the Everglades are among the ten most endangered in the nation. 
   In 1983, when I was Governor, Florida launched an effort--known as Save Our Everglades--to revitalize this precious ecosystem. Our goal was simple. By the end of our efforts, we wanted the Everglades to look and function more like it had in 1900 than it did in 1983. Back then, restoring the natural health and function of this precious ecosystem seemed like a distant dream. But after seventeen years of bipartisan progress in the context of a strong federal-state partnership, we now stand on the brink of seeing that dream become reality. 
   I want to speak for a moment about that federal-state partnership. I often compare this unique partnership to a marriage--if both partners respect each other, and pledge to work through any challenges together, the marriage will be strong and successful. Today, we are again celebrating the strength of that marriage, and this legislation contains several provisions born out of the respect that sustains this marriage. 
   For example, it requires that the Federal Government pay half of the costs of operations and maintenance. It offers assurances to both the Federal and State governments regarding the use and distribution of water in the Everglades ecosystem. Everglades restoration can't work unless the executive branch, Congress, and State government move forward hand-in-hand. 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues, the administration, the State, and stakeholders in this project to continue that cooperation and achieve the historic goal of preserving the Everglades for our children and grandchildren. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would like to see the final language of this amendment before we vote on it. Would it be appropriate to suggest the absence of a quorum until we have that opportunity? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I commend our colleague, Senator ROBB, for the outstanding leadership he is providing on this critical issue. On Monday, Senator ROBB and I visited the Archbishop McCarthy Residences in Opa-Locka, FL. There I met an elderly lady who had this story to tell. She had purposefully joined an HMO in order to be able to get access to pharmaceutical coverage. 
   Two months ago, the HMO announced it was dropping all pharmaceutical coverage. This was the first month in which the impact of that was felt by this elderly American. What did it do to her? She has five medically necessary prescriptions. She had to decide to forgo three of those five because she could not afford them. The two she thought she could not omit cost her $168 a month out of her very limited income. 
   This is not a theoretical or conceptual issue. This is a real life-and-blood issue for millions of Americans. 
   It has become an issue, in part, because of our successes. When Social Security was established in the mid-1930s, the average American had a life expectancy after 65 of 7 years. Today, the average American has a life expectancy after 65 of 17 years. According to the Census Bureau, 100 years from today, the average American will have a life expectancy of 27 years after they reach 65. 
   Those numbers have fundamentally changed what constitutes effective, humane health care. It has meant that we need to be making an investment in prevention. If a person is only going to live a few years after retirement, one could argue, why spend the money on prevention. But if a person is going to live 17 or 27 years, that is a big share of their life. 
   In addition, because of that extended life, there is more emphasis on care for people who have chronic conditions that have to be managed for many years. Both of those, prevention and chronic care, necessitate access to prescription drugs. That is what this plan will do. 
   The year 2000, the beginning of the 21st century, will mark the year in which older Americans will no longer have to make the choice that the woman in Opa-Locka did, to drop three of her medically necessary prescriptions and then end up paying a very high part of her meager income to buy the two drugs she could not avoid. 
   I congratulate our colleague for bringing this amendment forth. I urge all of our colleagues to see this as a kind of opportunity and pass the Robb amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Point of personal privilege. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I do not want to talk; I want to answer. 
   The Senator asked a series of questions, and I am prepared to answer them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the RECORD answers to the questions that were asked during the debate by the Senator from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, earlier this year, the Senate began consideration of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization. As its name suggests, that legislation governs how Federal dollars that go to the States for education will be spent. It is a very important bill, and I regret that the Senate was unable to complete consideration of it. 
   As important as the ESEA reauthorization bill is, however, it is not the most significant education bill that Congress will deal with in the next two years. In fact, the most important education bill Congress will consider won't mention schools or students. It won't reference classroom size or teacher salaries. 
   In 1998, Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act. That bill imposed a three year moratorium on specific state taxes applicable to the Internet. The legislation didn't affect the states' ability to impose sales tax on Internet purchases, nor did it fix the unfair advantage ``e-tailers'' currently have over their main street competitors with respect to their responsibility to collect sales and use taxes. 
   As a result of two Supreme Court rulings, a state is prohibited from requiring out-of-state retailers from collecting sales tax on purchases made by its residents if the business has no presence in the state. The sales tax still applies, it just has to be collected directly from the purchaser. For a variety of reasons, very little of this tax is ever collected. 
   The Internet Tax Freedom Act created the Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce which was supposed to come up with a solution to this problem. Instead the Commission was hijacked by a small group who opted to demagogue this issue to further their ``anti-tax'' agenda. The result was a year-long study of an issue with little in the form of useful recommendations. 
   The House has passed a five year extension of the moratorium put in place by the Internet Tax Freedom Act. The Senate also may soon consider a proposal to extend the temporary ban imposed in 1998. The game plan of the forces supporting this extended moratorium is clear: delay, delay, delay. Keep extending the moratorium until there is a sufficiently large political constituency to permanently block the collection of sales taxes on purchases made over the Internet. 
   This is not a hidden agenda. Governor Gilmore, Chairman of the Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce stated it clearly when he said that ``I believe America should ban sales and use taxes on the Internet permanently, for all time. If we secure tax freedom on the Internet through 2006, tax freedom on the Internet will become an entitlement for the American  people and a political 
   inevitability. No tax collector will be welcome on the Internet after 2006.'' 
   Let me be clear: this is not about whether purchases made over the Internet are subject to sales tax. They already are. The question is whether Internet sellers should have the same responsibility to collect the sales tax as their Main Street competitors. 
   If we answer this question with a ``no,'' funding for education will suffer. Why? Because states have the fundamental responsibility for financing public education in our country For most states, sales tax revenue is the primary means by which states fulfill this responsibility. Because many states rely on sales taxes for their general revenue, the equation is simple--no collection of sales tax on the Internet means less money for new schools, teacher salaries, or textbooks. Six states--Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas and Washington rely on sales taxes for more than half of their total tax revenue. 
   Over the next four years, Internet sales are expected to grow by nearly $500 billion. If state and local governments are prohibited from collecting sales taxes on those new sales, they stand to lose close to $17.5 billion in revenue. Florida's share of that lost revenue could be $1 billion. When asked why he robbed banks, Willie Sutton replied, ``that's where the money is.'' Today, the money is increasingly on the Internet. 
   There is another reason to fix this issue: fairness. No one would seriously consider a proposal that barred state and local governments from collecting sales and use taxes from retailers who operate from green buildings. That would be unfair to those businesses that aren't located in green buildings. Proposals to arbitrarily benefit the Internet, however, somehow receive a great deal of attention and support. 
   Our position should be clear: no more delays. No more moratoriums until Congress agrees to a process whereby states can simplify their sales tax systems and receive the authority they need to require remote sellers to collect their sales taxes. 
   The legislation we are introducing today takes the first positive step in this direction. The bill extends the current moratorium on Internet access taxes and multiple or discriminatory taxes on the Internet, a prohibition that virtually all agree should be imposed. 
   More importantly, however, it establishes a process whereby states can cooperatively create a model sales and use tax system. Sales tax laws must be made significantly more uniform across the states, and the administration of the tax must be substantially overhauled and simplified. The goal of this legislation is to develop a simple, uniform, and fair system of sales tax collection. It will reduce the burden on remote sellers and protect state and local sovereignty. 
   Once states have adopted this simplified system, they would then have the authority to require remote sellers to collect and remit sales and use taxes to the state. 
   Previous attempts to require remote sellers to collect sales and use taxes have been criticized on the grounds that it was unreasonable to require businesses to keep track of the nearly 7,500 state and local governments levying sales and use taxes. That is a suspect criticism, particularly for those. Nevertheless, this bill dramatically simplifies the system for businesses by establishing uniform definitions and fewer rates. 
   The streamlined sales and use tax system envisioned by this legislation follows the guidance offered by the Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce. The attributes of this streamlined system include: 
   A centralized, one-stop, multi-state registration system for sellers; 
   Uniform definitions for goods or services that would be included in the tax base; 
   Uniform and simple rules for attributing transactions to particular taxing jurisdictions; 
   Uniform rules for the designation and identification of purchasers exempt from tax; 
   Uniform certification procedures for software that sellers may rely on to determine state and local taxes; 
   Uniform bad debt rules; 
   Uniform returns and remittance forms; 
   Consistent electronic filing and remittance methods; 
   State administration of State and local sales taxes; 
   Uniform audit procedures; 
   Reasonable compensation for tax collection by remote sellers; 
   Exemption for remote sellers with less than $5 million in annual sales for the previous year; 
   Appropriate protections for consumer privacy; and 
   Such other features that member states deem warranted to promote simplicity. 
   Critics of this legislation will argue that it is anti-technology, and that the Internet must be protected from this threat. That is not true. The sponsors of this bill yield to no one in their support and enthusiasm for a vibrant information technology era. But that support does not necessitate special breaks for companies doing business over the Internet. 
   A more appropriate characterization for this legislation is that it will both assure fairness to all sellers and protect states' abilities to collect the resources necessary to make the education investments that will pave the way for the next technological breakthrough--the next Internet. I hope my colleagues will join us and support this approach. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, Senator MCCONNELL is controlling time, but he is not here. Could I ask how much time is under Senator MCCONNELL's control? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. May I request 3 minutes of the remaining time of the opponents of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
   I strongly support the approval of this assistance for Colombia. 
   For the past 8 months I have chaired, together with General Brent Scowcroft, a Council on Foreign Relations Task Force on Colombia. This bipartisan Task Force released an Interim Report in March of this year which recommended that Congress approve the administration's aid request for Colombia, with two modifications. The first, that additional support should be provided to Bolivia, Peru, and other countries in the region, has been incorporated into the bill by the Appropriations Committee. The second modification, that additional trade benefits should be part of the package, I will address with the introduction of separate legislation later this week. 
   Let me explain why I, and the Task Force, feel so strongly that this assistance package for Colombia needs to be approved. 
   There is a crisis in Colombia that demands our immediate attention. While Colombia has experienced violence and guerrilla insurgencies for many years, the current crisis is unique in several important ways. First, Colombia is experiencing record violence which is killing over 25,000 Colombians each year. More than half of all kidnapings in the world occur in Colombia. The FARC and ELN guerrilla forces and the paramilitary groups are escalating their violence in ways that have not been seen before. 
   Second, our success in reducing coca cultivation in Peru and Bolivia has shifted the production and cultivation of coca to Colombia, with an explosion of coca cultivation in southern Colombia in the past five years. Over 90 percent of the cocaine on our streets comes from Colombia. More importantly, the guerrilla forces operating in Colombia have become directly involved in narco-trafficking. Where they once provided protection for drug traffickers, they now are directly involved in the production and transport of illegal drugs. This provides them with an almost limitless source of revenue. For the first time we have a guerrilla organization that does not rely on external sources of funding. 
   Third, the Colombian economy is experiencing its worst recession since the 1930s. An unemployment rate of over 20 percent is exacerbating social and political tensions. The violence is deterring investment making economic recovery more difficult. 
   Fourth, Colombians are leaving Colombia at record rates. Last year over 100,000 Colombians moved to my State of Florida alone. Hundreds of thousands more have come to other parts of the United States to escape the violence and instability. 
   It is this combination of factors that led President Pastrana, working closely with our administration, to propose Plan Colombia. To many, Plan Colombia is only about drugs, but in reality it is a broad plan that addresses five key areas: the peace process; the Colombian economy; the counter-drug strategy; justice reform and human rights; and democratization and social development. It is this broad based plan to rebuild the Colombian state that needs our support.  
   Some have said that Plan Colombia is only about providing military equipment to Colombia. Indeed, Plan Colombia is much more comprehensive and far-reaching. But, the United States contribution to Plan Colombia is heavily weighted toward military equipment. There is a good reason for this. Plan Colombia is a $7.5 billion plan, of which the Colombians themselves will provide over $4 billion. They are looking to the United States to provide about $1.6 billion and to international community for the remainder. 
   It is appropriate that the portion of the funding being provided by the United States focus on the counter-drug part of Plan Colombia since this is of particular interest to us and since we are the only country that can supply that type of support. It is also the part of Plan Colombia that is most compelling for U.S. involvement, since it involves keeping drugs off of our streets. 
   Some have argued that there are risks associated with providing this type of support to Colombia. That is true, but there are also risks associated with doing nothing, and I believe that the risks associated with doing nothing are far greater than the risks involved with helping the Colombian Government and the Colombian people. 
   We have important national interests at stake in Colombia that would be critically harmed were the current situation in Colombia to continue. First, Colombia is the oldest democracy in South America and has been an important partner in bringing democracy and democratic values to all of our hemispheric neighbors, with the 
   exception of Cuba. We must act to preserve democracy. 
   Second, the entire Andean region is threatened by instability and Colombia is the center of that instability. Failure to stem the crisis in Colombia could lead to increased instability in Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru, Panama, and Venezuela. A stronger Colombia means a stronger region and a stronger Western Hemisphere. 
   Third, a complete breakdown in Colombia would make it even more difficult to control the drug trafficking. And the illegal networks that are set up by drug traffickers also involve other illegal activities that threaten our security, such as money laundering and financial crimes, arms trafficking, human smuggling, cargo theft, and terrorism. 
   Fourth, Colombia is an important trading partner for the United States. It is South America's fourth largest economy and the fifth largest export market in Latin America for the United States. Colombia has the potential to be an economic engine for the Andean region and an even bigger market for U.S. goods. The violence and instability in Colombia are preventing economic growth, including the exploitation of large, newly discovered oil fields that would help to reduce gasoline prices in the United States. 
   Fifth, the exodus of Colombians, nearly 1 million in the past 5 years, further exacerbates our own immigration problems. A further downturn in the Colombian situation could lead to an immigration crisis that would directly impact the United States. 
   Finally, for those concerned about human rights, and I consider myself in that category, the deteriorating human rights situation in Colombia can only be reversed through the implementation of Plan Colombia, with the government gaining affective control over its national territory. President Pastrana has demonstrated his will to improve the human rights situation in Colombia, and has taken concrete steps, including dismissing senior military officers, to demonstrate his determination. 
   With all of this at stake it is hard to understand why we have not been able to move faster to approve this assistance package. And there are direct costs associated with this delay. Last December I visited the first of the Colombian counternarcotics battalions that are to be trained and equipped by the U.S. as part of Plan Colombia. The U.S. Special Forces soldiers who were training them reported that their moral was excellent and they were as capable at their tasks as any soldiers they have ever trained. 
   Unfortunately, this battalion has been doing very little other than calisthenics since my visit, largely because of our failure to move this assistance package. They are limited to where they can reach by foot, since they have no mobility capability. They have no fuel for the helicopters they were given on an interim basis by the State Department. The valuable training they received is wasting away, and their skills are fading from lack of practice. 
   In addition, the second Colombian counternarcotics battalion has been vetted but are unable to begin training. Eradication of coca and opium poppy has been halted. Crop substitution and alternative development programs are also on hold, as are the human rights and judicial reform programs that are included in the legislation. Meanwhile, the guerrillas and the drug traffickers continue to strengthen and expand their operations. The peace process has floundered and the violence has escalated. Each day we wait the situation worsens, the regional instability increases, the drugs flow out of Colombia, and the money and effort required to turn the situation around increases. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to act now and support this vital package of assistance for Colombia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I wish to speak in opposition to the amendment offered by the Senator from Washington. Is there time remaining on that issue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Is the Senator controlling the time in opposition to the amendment of the Senator from Washington? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. I request 8 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have spoken earlier this afternoon on the issue of Colombia in the context of the amendment offered by the Senator from Minnesota. But now that we have another amendment relative to this provision within the foreign operations appropriations bill, I am pleased to have been afforded this opportunity to speak a second time. 
   I believe that the fundamental thrust of the amendment offered by the Senator from Washington, which would cut all but $200 million of the recommended appropriations for the United States share of the financing plan in Colombia, would essentially eviscerate not only the U.S. participation but would probably eliminate the prospects of other nations, that see themselves looking to the United States for leadership in terms of dealing with the crisis in Colombia, and would probably have a very destabilizing effect on Colombia's stated intention to provide more than half of the $7.5 billion cost of the comprehensive plan in Colombia. 
   Essentially, what we would be saying, by adopting this amendment, is that we are prepared to see Colombia continue in the almost death spiral of downward direction in which it has been in for the past many months. 
   I would like to first point out what are some of the national interests of the United States that would be sacrificed if we were to allow that to occur. Of course, the most fundamental sacrifice would be the loss of an effective democratic partner in the efforts to build stability within the Western Hemisphere. Colombia is the longest continuous democracy on the continent of South America. It is a country that other countries, which are relatively new democracies, look to for leadership and example. 
   What a horrendous consequence it would be if, by our lack of responding to the call for help at this critical time, we were to be the principal agent of converting this nation of over half a  century of democracy into a failed state. 
   There are also consequences to the region, particularly the Andean region. That is a region that is already in trouble, as I know the Presiding Officer is well aware. 
   There is a new and untested government in Venezuela. We have, in Ecuador, the first successful military coup in Latin America in almost two decades. Peru is in the midst of a very 
   contentious election aftermath which in many quarters has been called incredible in the sense of not being a credible election. 
   Even Bolivia, which has been a source of stability, had to impose essentially a period of martial law. And on the north side, we have Panama, which has recently been given full control of the Panama Canal, and where there are great concerns about the stability of that country, and particularly its vulnerability to drug traffickers. 
   So here Colombia sits, in the middle of this very vulnerable, fractious part of our hemisphere. If it goes down, it will have enormous spillover effects, and the consequences will be dire for U.S. interests. 
   What we most think about when we hear the word ``Colombia'' is drugs. Colombia has become an even greater source of drugs due, in part, to the success of our efforts in Peru and Bolivia in reducing coca production, but also, unfortunately, due, in large part, to the fact that we now have a marriage between the narcotraffickers, the guerrillas, and the paramilitaries who are all working together in various places in Colombia, particularly in the southern most regions, to have contributed to a doubling, maybe soon a tripling, of drug production in that nation over the last decade. 
   Colombia is also an important economic partner of the United States. It has one of the larger economies in Latin America, and it has been a significant trading partner for the United States. 
   Colombia has had a long period not only of democracy but also of sustained economic growth. It was not until 3 or 4 years ago that the record of every year being better than the last was broken in terms of the economy of Colombia. It was able to avoid a series of economic crises in South America and be a solid bastion of economic stability. That pattern is now broken, with 20 percent unemployment, a 3- to 5-percent drop in gross domestic product, and an outflow of investment. 
   Finally, we have a national interest in terms of the people of Colombia believing that their future and their hope is in Colombia, and that they do not have to flee and become another diaspora in the United States. 
   There has been substantial out-migration, oftentimes of the people with the very skills that are going to be necessary to restore the democracy and economy in Colombia. 
   When I was in Bogota, in December of last year, I was told that if you wanted to apply for a visa to leave Colombia, even as a tourist or for one of the standard visas, it took 10 months to get an appointment to meet with the U.S. consulate official to apply to get a visa. 
   That is how backlogged they are because of the number of people who are trying to legally leave the country. One can imagine if these conditions of violence and economic turmoil continue how many people will be leaving illegally from Colombia with the United States as their primary destination. 
   We have a lot at stake. This is not a trivial issue with which we are dealing. I hope just as we, by a very strong vote, rejected previous propositions that would have diluted our capacity to be a good neighbor on this critical issue, that we will do so again in defeating the amendment offered by the Senator from Washington. 
   Once we have acted, we still will have some work to do, in particular work to do in terms of internationalizing the friends of Colombia to be a strong support group to continue this effort, remembering that 30 percent of Plan Colombia is going to be paid by other than the United States or Colombia--the Colombians have yet to identify who will pick up that 30 percent of the cost--and that we must put greater emphasis on the economic recovery of Colombia, which I hope will include items such as bringing parity to the Andean pact nations vis-a-vis the recently adopted increase in trade preferences for the Caribbean Basin and extending the Andean trade preference to the year 2008 in order to give investors greater confidence. 
   There is important work to do today, important work to do tomorrow. The goal is to be a good neighbor and contribute to the salvation of a very good friend of the United States, Colombia, at a time of dire need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, 7 months and 75 minutes from today we will not be in this Senate Chamber. We will be standing, probably on the west-facing flank of the Capitol, hearing the next President of the United States being inaugurated into office. 
   What is the significance of that statement of fact and place to the debate we are having today? 
   The significance is that the issue before us today is not, What should be U.S. policy towards Cuba? The amendment that is before us proposes to establish a commission to try to answer the question, What should be U.S. policy towards Cuba? 
   In a few days, we are going to be debating a proposition to change the embargo as it relates to Cuba. But the question before us today on the issue of establishing this commission is, Who should have primary responsibility for establishing U.S. foreign policy and, specifically, foreign policy towards Cuba? 
   My answer to that question, of course, is, the people of the United States. The way in which the people of the United States will participate is not through an elite commission appointed by an administration in its last 7 months but, rather, through the electoral process which is going to take place in November of this year. 
   We are in the midst of a robust Presidential campaign in which many issues of domestic and foreign importance to the United States are being debated before the American people. Frankly, I think this has been one of the most constructive Presidential campaigns in recent years thus far. I hope it continues in that path from now to election day in November. 
   One of the issues which will certainly be debated during this Presidential campaign will be the issue of the United States relationship to Cuba. The American people will have an opportunity to participate, to understand, to add their opinions to this debate. Then they will decide. They will decide by the election of the next President of the United States of America. 
   Under our Constitution, the President has the primary responsibility for foreign policy. Why in the world would we today, on the day exactly 7 months before the next President will take the oath of office, support a proposition that would establish a commission dominated by members of the current President's administration, which would have the intention of shackling the range of options of the President that will be elected by the American people in November, thus frustrating the ability of the American people to influence what our policy should be relative to Cuba? 
   There are a lot of things that we can say about Cuba. 
   Clearly, Cuba is an authoritarian regime. Examples of that have already been cited. Cuba, within the last few weeks, has been cited again by the United Nations for its denial of human rights. 
   Cuba, within the last few days, has been again identified by Amnesty International as one of the egregious human rights violators. 
   Cuba has again been placed on the terrorist list of states, those states which support and harbor terrorist activities. 
   All of those issues are matters of public knowledge and record. All of those, I am certain, will be further debated at the appropriate time, when we commence the consideration of whether it is in U.S. national policy interests to loosen the embargo on Cuba. 
   But today the issue is not whether Cuba is an authoritarian state, a well-established principle but, rather, the question of whether we should lift from the hands of the American people and place into an appointed commission the primary responsibility for direction on our Cuba policy. 
   There is a ``common sense'' in these debates about Cuba, that the United States and Cuba are the only two nations in the world, that they are locked in a singular bilateral relationship. 
   The fact is, many countries in the world have various forms of relations with Cuba. Many of them have the type of relationship which I believe the advocates of this commission would like to see achieved for the United States; that is, open, political, and economic recognition and relationship. While the approaches to Cuba have been different among the countries of the world, the result of those approaches has been consistently the same. 
   What is the result of that policy, whether it is ours or the Canadians or the Spanish or a series of countries in Latin America? The result of that policy has been a continuation of 40 years of one of the most egregious violators of human rights, deniers of even the most basic principles of democracy, and a Communist economic system which has driven what had been one of the most affluent countries in Latin America into one of the most desperate countries in Latin America. 
   The idea that by the United States changing our policy, we are automatically going to have the effect of changing the policy of Fidel Castro in Cuba defies 40 years of other countries' efforts through an open, normal relationship with Cuba to achieve that result. I believe these are serious issues. They are issues which deserve to be decided by the American people through the electoral process. 
   The distinguished list of Americans cited by the proponent of this commission to establish such a commission signed their letter on September 30, 1998, almost 2 years ago. I wonder if these same distinguished citizens would be advocating this commission on the very eve of a Presidential election which will select a new President, whether they would advocate that in June of 2000 we should be removing from the hands of the American people and placing in the hands of this commission the primary responsibility to examine American policy towards Cuba; and, further, whether we should be establishing a commission which has such a narrow and quite obviously tilted orientation as to what the results would be. 
   If we look at what is required of the commission to evaluate, it is issues which are largely selected to determine in advance what the recommendations will be. For instance, missing from this list is what is one of the most fundamental questions of American policy towards Cuba; that is, what should we be doing now in order to influence the kind of environment that will exist in Cuba when the opportunity for real change is available. Will we have a Cuba that will make a change like Czechoslovakia, a velvet revolution from communism to democracy, or will we have a Romania, where thousands of people are killed, violence which scars the country even today. 
   The fact that some of these fundamental questions are left off the list of what should be the focus of American policy towards Cuba leaves me to believe that the purpose of this commission is to certify a foregone conclusion rather than do what the American people are going to do in the weeks between now and November, and that is have a thoughtful consideration of what are our real issues and interests in Cuba and how should we go about selecting a President who will carry out those real interests. 
   We are going to have an opportunity for a full and open debate. Some of that debate will occur soon and on this floor. Much of it will occur in the living rooms of the American people. We should allow the American people to decide this issue. In 7 months, we will be listening to a President inaugurated who, hopefully, in that inaugural speech, will make some comments  about his feeling as to what the American people desire relative to our policy towards Cuba. 
   I urge that we vote for the motion to table this misguided and mistimed proposition of a lame duck commission on Cuba at this time and that we let the American people and the next President of the United States provide the leadership on this important foreign policy issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with Senators BRYAN, ROBB, CONRAD, CHAFEE, BAUCUS, ROCKEFELLER, and LINCOLN to introduce the Medicare Outpatient Drug Act of 2000. 
   We are all aware of the fundamental changes in Americans' life expectancy throughout the century. When Medicare was created in 1965, the average life expectancy for a woman who reached the age of 65 was 80 and for a man 78 years of age. In 1998, the life expectancy jumped to 84 years for a woman and 81 for a man. Projections for the year 2100 assume that the average life span for an individual who reaches 65 will be 94 years for a woman and 91 for a man. 
   These statistics paint a clear picture--seniors are living longer and to ensure their quality of life, they must have guaranteed access to prescription medications. The Republicans say that they want a prescription drug benefit. The Democrats say that they want a prescription drug benefit. The question facing both parties is this: Do they really want a benefit or just an election year bully pulpit? If the answer is a benefit, we're here today to help. 
   On far too many occasions in the last few years, important legislation has been knocked off the tracks by election year, partisan train wrecks. We hope that this year can be different. That is why we are offering a new Medicare prescription drug benefit--one that we believe represents a workable compromise between the Democratic and Republican positions. 
   Our Proposal--the Medicare Outpatient Drug Act of 2000--is centrist. It is bipartisan. It is innovative. And we think it can pass Congress this year. I must mention that this effort has been a truly collaborative one from start to finish. The MOD Act has several key components: 
   Universality--access for everyone; 
   Consistency--keeps with the important tradition of the Medicare program by providing a defined, reliable benefit for all seniors alike. A senior in Fargo, North Dakota is assured access to the same defined benefit structure as a senior in Miami, Florida; 
   Voluntary participation, like Medicare Part B; 
   Special protections for low income Americans; 
   True stop-loss protection, which ensures seamless insurance without gaps in coverage; 
   A ramp-up payment system, which decreases beneficiary payments based on their increased prescription medication needs; and 
   The use of Multiple Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) to administer the benefit and promote competition and choice. 
   For many years I have spoken about the need to move the Medicare program from one based on acute care and illness to one focused on prevention and wellness. The Medicare Wellness Act of 2000, of which many of my colleague are cosponsors and which ensures seniors access to a variety of preventive programs and screenings, represents the first piece of this puzzle--The MOD Act represents the second step in my three-point plan for accomplishing this goal. 
   Prescription drugs are an integral part of health care and must be integrated in to the current Medicare system as a defined benefit--not as an ``add on.'' It is my understanding that the House Republicans have proposed a bill that entrusts the private insurance market to provide a prescription drug benefit to seniors. Though, on the surface these ideals have appeal and they are initially less expensive or claim to be ``more flexible'' than a comprehensive, universal benefit, I find myself asking the question: Are there other Medicare benefits that are or should be treated in this capacity? 
   Let's take the example of physician services, for example, anesthesiology services. Would we ask private insurance companies to create anesthesiology-only insurance packages? Would beneficiaries purchase such policies? Would they be available? What would be the result of extricating this benefit from the Medicare program. 
   With prescription drugs representing one of the most prevalent treatments in health care today--I ask myself, ``Is it wise to look toward an approach to providing coverage of prescritpion medication which is arguably unworkable in everyother sector of medicine?'' 
   Leaders in the health insurance industry have stated that ``Lawmakers should avoid drug insurance-only coverage, which is unlikely to get off the ground and which would be impossible to price affordably.'' The MOD Act creates a defined, affordable, consistent prescription drug benefit within the Medicare system where it should be. 
   The third piece to solving the Medicare puzzle lies in the need to give the Medicare program the tools to compete in the current health care market  place. My colleagues and I will soon be introducing a reform bill that will have the dual effect of providing significant savings to offset the bill that we are introducing today. 
   I encourage my colleagues to join us in cosponsoring this important piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, during National Homeownership Week, to urge the Senate's commitment to affordable housing. I ask my colleagues to support a Resolution expressing the Senate's commitment to the ``House the Senate Built'' project. This proposed partnership between the United States Senate and Habitats for Humanity will lead to the construction of a simple home with and for a low-income family in all fifty states and the District of Columbia by the end of 2001. 
   Our colleagues in the House of Representatives have already made this a priority. Three years ago, members of the House unanimously passed a Resolution which expressed its commitment to build an affordable home for a family in need in each of the 435 Congressional districts. Since that time, in partnership with Habitat for Humanity, homes have been built in nearly every district. 
   Habitat for Humanity's work is respected and admired. In its twenty-three years, Habitat for Humanity has housed nearly 400,000 people in 79,300 Habitat houses worldwide. Under the continued leadership of founder Millard Fuller, Habitat built 13,682 homes in 1999. 
   Spend some time with Mr. Fuller or at one Habitat's worksites, and you will find that the passion for providing all sleepy children a decent place to lay their heads is contagious. Millard wisely states, ``We have the know-how in the world to house everyone. We have the resources in the world to house everyone. All that's missing is the will to do it.'' 
   I suggest that the Senate has the will to make affordable housing for all Americans a reality. We can show our commitment by lending our own skills and strength to the construction of one Habitat for Humanity home in each State by the end of next year. 
   I encourage you to work with your local Habitat for Humanity affiliate--there are over 2,000--to identify a community and family in need of a little extra assistance to make their dream of homeownership a reality. 
   We all remember our first home--the pride we took in mowing the lawn for the first time, family barbecues, the excitement and nervous anticipation of our first dinner party. I believe that every American deserves the opportunity to feel the pride of homeownership. 
   We have the know-how, the resources, and, certainly, the need. Let us now show America that we have the will to give more Americans the opportunity to own their own home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the Florida Keys are a unique natural resource area that we must value and protect. This 158 mile-long string of islands at the southern tip of Florida attracts two and a half million visitors each year to fish, swim, snorkel, dive, and otherwise enjoy the beautiful surroundings. 
   One of the most striking characteristics of the Florida Keys is their pristine marine environment. The Keys support one of the largest sea grass communities in this hemisphere and more than 6000 species of plants fish, and invertebrates. The diversity of this reef ecosystem is considered the underwater equivalent of the tropical rainforests. 
   But that ecosystem--and the economy it supports--is at grave risk. The degradation of water quality in the Florida Keys threatens the health of the living coral reef, sea grasses, fisheries, and other marine life. This decline threatens to transform the Keys from one of Florida's most treasured resources to one of its most poisoned. 
   Mr. President, the great irony is that we are loving the Florida Keys to death. While we are pleased that these islands attract new residents and visitors from all over the world, improvements in wastewater treatment and management practices have not kept pace with population and tourism growth. 
   Why is this significant? Ongoing research has determined that nutrients from wastewater have significantly contributed to the decline of water quality in the Florida Keys. It will take a strong partnership of federal, state, and local governments working in conjunction with environmental advocates and other interests to build the better sewage treatment systems needed to improve canal and nearshore water quality. 
   Fortunately for the Florida Keys, such a partnership is already in place and at work. In 1990, Congress established the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary to protect the marine habitat while continuing to allow for its appropriate use. The sanctuary program has brought together representatives of necessary interests to develop a plan for challenges like water quality. 
   Central to this effort is the Monroe County government, which has developed a Wastewater Master Plan to identify long-term solutions to the water quality problem. The plan estimates that infrastructure projects implemented to improve water quality will incur total capital costs of $346 million--a major undertaking that will require funding at every level. 
   Mr. President, I have long said that any federal assistance for Keys wastewater improvements would first require a strong show of local support. Monroe County has done its fair share. Through a combination of revenue bonds, user fees and an infrastructure sales tax, the County has made a commitment of over $150 million over 10 years. 
   Mr. President, it is time for this Congress to hold up its end of the bargain. Today, Senator MACK and I are introducing the Florida Keys Water Quality Improvements Act of 2000. Similar legislation passed the House on May 4, 2000 with almost unanimous support. 
   The Florida Keys Water Quality Improvements Act authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency to make grants for construction of wastewater treatment works. These grants are only awarded to projects that already have a significant investment. Successful applicant projects will be those that have completed the planning and design phase, demonstrated substantial water quality benefits and proven compliance with the Marine Sanctuary and other master plans for the area. And as is appropriate in a partnership, these grants will fund a portion of project costs, with an least 25 percent of the cost paid by local and state entities. 
   Mr. President, the prospect of treating wastewater for an increasingly crowed 158-mile-long string of islands is not a simple one. But it is vital that we preserve this beautiful area not just for current residents and visitors--but also for our children and grandchildren. With this legislation, we can put the federal government on the side of this worthy goal, and support the investment that has been made by the residents and protectors of the Florida Keys. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce bipartisan immigration legislation that will have a tremendous impact on thousands of families in the United States. 
   I am very pleased to be working with my colleague, GORDON SMITH of Oregon, on this effort. 
   There are several reasons for the introduction of this legislation. 
   1. It corrects past injustices. 
   Many of the immigrants helped by this legislation have been active, productive, hard-working members of our community for many years. 
   For example, the majority of Central Americans helped by this legislation have been in the United States since the early 1980s, when they fled tyranny and turmoil in their home countries. 
   The were welcomed into our nation by President Ronald Reagan. 
   These Central American nationals were made retroactively deportable by the 1996 immigration bill. 
   This legislation provides a state option to help legal immigrant children get needed health care. 
   The 1996 welfare bill deprived vulnerable, legal children from benefits. 
   This change is good public policy, from a health care perspective, an immigration perspective and a humanitarian perspective. 
   2. It is pro-family. 
   This legislation will speed the process that reunites family members. 
   It has been over ten years since the limits on family immigration were adjusted. This has resulted in waiting periods that could last years to bring immediate family members together. 
   Spouses and children would have an easier time in obtaining visas to visit their loved ones through this legislation. 
   In current practice, it is often very difficult to travel to visit legal residents in the United States while their immigration documents are pending--our legislation would ease the bureaucracy to allow families to be together for the events that shape their lives. 
   3. It is pro-business. 
   Congress has focused this session on increasing the number of high-tech workers for U.S. companies. I have long been supportive of that proposal. 
   Protections are in place for U.S. workers, and American business has the resources needed to keep our economy booming. 
   This legislation is pro-business in two ways. 
   It builds the pool of legal workers available by swifter family reunification. 
   And it offers an avenue for those workers who are already here and working to remain here. 
   They can stay here, and increase the productivity of our nation's businesses, or they can leave and work for foreign competitors. 
   I want them to stay. 
   Alan Greenspan agrees. 
   He has said during a House Banking and Financial Services Committee meeting in July of last year:  
   Aggregated demand is putting very significant pressures on an ever-decreasing supply of unemployed labor. The one obvious means that we can use to offset that is expanding the number of people we allow in....... I think in reviewing our immigration laws in the context of the type of economy which we will be enjoying in the decade ahead is clearly on the table....... 
   4. Its omnibus nature allows groups to work together toward a common goal  
   All sides win in this equation. 
   Families. Children. Business. Our economy 
   By combining forces, groups that care about these issues can work together toward a comprehensive, prudent, rational immigration policy. 
   These coalitions are already being built. 
   I would like to submit a letter from May 16, 2000 from Jack Kemp, Henry Cisneros, and a wide range of business, religious, labor and immigrant advocacy groups endorsing components of this legislation. 
   This is a wonderful example of groups at the national and local level coalescing together around pro-family, pro-business, pro-justice ideals. 
   Our current immigration debates have had the negative effect of pitting one segment of our society against another, and pitting one nationality against another. 
   In the past ..... the debate has been if businesses get more workers, family reunification will suffer. 
   Nicaraguans and Cubans receive a swifter and more generous immigration status than similarly situated Central American and Caribbean nationals. 
   No one wins if these divides remain. 
   All of us win if we can work together and strengthen our nation by correcting past injustices, reuniting families and providing American businesses with the workers they desperately need. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to thank my colleagues for joining me in this recognition of America's children. Last night, our body passed an important resolution, affirming the sacred role of children in our society. 
   I have often heard the phrase ``every day is children's day.'' Sadly, this is not always the case. There are too many children in America who are hungry, abused, neglected, and abandoned. Despite the best efforts of our parents, our foster parents, and our social services networks, not all children feel that they are loved and valued. 
   Today, the United States Senate has taken a monumental step towards recognizing the merit and worth of all of our children. 
   We already give special tribute to the efforts of our mothers and fathers. On both Mother's Day and Father's Day, we honor the hard work and sacrifices which parents make on behalf of their children and families. These are days where we pay homage to our parents, both acknowledging and giving thanks for their contributions to both society and home. 
   I am pleased that June 4, 2000, will be National Child's Day--a day during which parents and friends alike can affirm the love we share for our children. This will be a day devoted to our youth, reminding children and ourselves of the special, blessed place which they have within both our hearts and our lives. 
   I would like to give special recognition to those organizations whose tireless efforts greatly aided in the success of this resolution, specifically Ms. Lee Rechter, Executive Director of FOCUS (Friends of Children United Succeed) and Mr. David Levy, Director of the Children's Rights Council. 
   Mr. President, National Child's Day provides a wonderful opportunity for us to celebrate America's children. But, we must also remember that every day should indeed be children's day. Let our expression of love and appreciation for our youth not be confined to a single day, but be shared with them on June 4th and always.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, along with my colleagues, to introduce the Ecstasy Anti-Proliferation Act of 2000--legislation to combat the recent rise in trafficking, distribution and abuse of MDMA, a drug commonly known as Ecstasy. 
   The Office of National Drug Control Policy's Year 2000 Annual Report on the National Drug Control Strategy clearly states that the use of Ecstasy is on the rise in the United States, particularly among teenagers and young professionals. My state of Florida has been particularly hard hit by this plague. Ecstasy is customarily sold and consumed at ``raves,'' which are semi-clandestine, all-night parties and concerts. Young Americans are lulled into a belief that Ecstasy, and other designer drugs are ``safe'' ways to get high, escape reality, and enhance intimacy in personal relationships. The drug traffickers make their living off of perpetuating and exploiting this myth. 
   Mr. President, I want to be perfectly clear in stating that Ecstasy is an extremely dangerous drug. In my state alone, 189 deaths have been attributed to the use of club drugs in the last three years. In 33 of those deaths, Ecstasy was the most prevalent drug, of several, in the individual's system. Seven deaths were caused by Ecstasy alone. In the first four months of this year there have already been six deaths directly attributed to Ecstasy. This drug is a definite killer. 
   Numerous data also reflect the increasing availability of Ecstasy in metropolitan centers and suburban communities. In a speech to the Federal Law Enforcement Foundation earlier this year, Customs Commissioner Raymond Kelly stated that in the first few months of fiscal year 2000, the Customs Service had already seized over four million Ecstasy tablets. He estimates that the number will grow to at least eight million tablets by the end of the year which represents a substantial increase from the 500,000 tablets seized in fiscal year 1997. 
   The lucrative nature of Ecstasy encourages its importation. Production costs are as low as two to twenty-five cents per dose while retail prices in the U.S. range from twenty dollars to forty-five dollars per dose. Manufactured mostly in Europe--in nations such as The Netherlands, Belgium, and Spain where pill presses are not controlled as they are in the U.S.--Ecstasy has erased all of the old routes law enforcement has mapped out for the smuggling of traditional drugs. 
   Under current federal sentencing guidelines, one gram of Ecstasy is equivalent to only 35 grams of marijuana. In contrast, one gram of methamphetamine is equivalent to two kilograms of marijuana. This results in relatively short periods of incarceration for individuals sentenced for Ecstasy-related crimes. When the potential profitability of this drug is compared to the potential punishment, it is easy to see what makes Ecstasy extremely attractive to professional smugglers. 
   Mr. President, the Ecstasy Anti-Proliferation Act of 2000 addresses this growing and disturbing problem. First, the bill increases the base level offense for Ecstasy-related crimes, making them equal to those of methamphetamine. This provision also accomplishes the goal of effectively lowering the amount of Ecstasy required for prosecution under the laws governing possession with the intent to distribute by sending a message to Federal prosecutors that this drug is a serious threat. 
   Second, by addressing law enforcement and community education programs, this bill will provide for an Ecstasy information campaign. Through this campaign, our hope is that Ecstasy will soon go the way of crack, which saw a dramatic reduction in the quantities present on our streets after information of its unpredictable impurities and side effects were made known to a wide audience. By using this educational effort we hope to avoid future deaths like the one columnist Jack Newfield wrote about in saddening detail. 
   It involved an 18-year-old who died after taking Ecstasy in a club where the drug sold for $25 a tablet and water for $5 a bottle. Newfield speaks of how the boy tried to suck water from the club's bathroom tap that had been turned off so that those with drug induced thirst would be forced to buy the bottled water. 
   Mr. President, the Ecstasy Anti-Proliferation Act of 2000 can only help in our fight against drug abuse in the United States. We urge our colleagues in the Senate to join us in this important effort by cosponsoring this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues Senators JEFFORDS, GRASSLEY, and ROCKEFELLER to introduce a bill to restore critical funding to the Social Services Block Grant (SSBG). 
   Mr. President, the Social Services Block Grant, Title XX of the Social Security Act, was created in 1981 by combining funding for social services and related staff training, and was intended to be the primary source of federal funds for social services. Funds are allocated to states on a per capita basis and they can use them to address abuse and neglect and to encourage self sufficiency and independence. 
   Since its creation, SSBG has successfully provided states with funds to address the social service needs they see as most pressing. States have broad flexibility in determining which services meet the needs of their unique populations, who should deliver the services and which families and individuals to serve. The array of needed programs covered under this important block grant range from adoption services to adult protective services--from home delivered meals to day care--from education and training programs to residential treatment services. 
   In the 1996 welfare law, an agreement was made between Congress and the States to decrease the SSBG from $2.8b to $2.38b until welfare reform was firmly established. The Finance Committee guaranteed states that SSBG would be funded at $2.38 billion per year until FY03 when it would be restored to $2.8b. In order to allow them to continue to fund critical social service programs, Congress allowed states to transfer 10 percent of its Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) block grant to SSBG. This was an important promise that has been broken. This legislation allows us to return to our promise and an agreement that was critical to the success of the new welfare system. 
   As members of the Finance Committee, we have an acute understanding of the value of the programs over which we have oversight responsibilities. We have consistently worked, with some success, to ensure the foundation of SSBG. 
   This overarching commitment was exemplified during the FY 2000 budget process. The Senate showed its bipartisan support for this important program by voting 57-39 to restore Title XX funding to its authorized level of $2.38 billion. Unfortunately, in the final omnibus appropriations bill, Title XX funding was cut from its authorized level of $2.38 billion to $1.775 
   billion. This $600 million cut is having a direct impact on the availability of necessary services for the nation's neediest citizens. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health, and Human Services and Education has included draconian cuts to this critical program by decreasing the funding levels from $1.7 billion to $600 million. This level of reduction is simply unacceptable and would virtually bankrupt the program. 
   Our bill would ensure that Title XX funds would remain available to support needed services for children and families in crisis. The block grant has also been one of the only funding sources available for community-based services for elderly and disabled persons. It is unconscionable that this critical source of funding for the most basic and necessary of social services has been cut by over $1 billion in a short five years, and that the Senate Appropriations Committee would suggest a billion dollar cut in one year alone. 
   If adequate funding for this program is not restored to SSBG, vulnerable children, families, elderly, and disabled persons will be without the assistance they need to live independently. Title XX provides the support necessary for families in crisis, the elderly, and many persons with both physical and mental disabilities to live independently in the community. These funds also provide support through childcare and counseling, both of which are necessary for persons with multiple barriers to employment to successfully leave the TANF rolls. 
   The importance of the Social Services Block Grant is not only recognized  by state and local governments, but also by non profit providers across the country who have joined together with governments in support of this block grant. Congress needs to also recognize the Social Services Block Grant as the critical safety-net program that it is, and pass our bill to restore funding to the levels necessary to keep our promise to our neediest citizens. 
   I hope that my Senate colleagues will join us in cosponsoring this critical piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, since the early 1980s, the United States has implemented a logical series of policy initiatives with respect to the nations of the Caribbean Basin. 
   First, in 1983, we enacted the Caribbean Basin Initiative, CBI, to stabilize the region by building stronger, more diverse economies. This initiative had the added goals of enhancing national security, and reducing the flow of illegal drugs and illegal immigrants into the United States. 
   Second, after the enactment of NAFTA in 1993, we moved to ``level the playing field,'' for the CBI region by further enhancing our trade relationship with the CBI nations. Today, after 7 years of debate, we will vote on the final passage of this measure. 
   Third, we have responded quickly and compassionately to a number of humanitarian crises in the CBI region; most recently to Hurricanes Mitch and Georges, which caused unprecedented damage and misery in many Latin American nations. 
   And finally, we now look towards 2005, a year that will bring the expiration of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing and the implementation of the Free Trade Area of the Americas, both of which will significantly affect trade relations throughout the Western Hemisphere. Today, I will discuss the importance of the legislation before us, as well as the future of our relationship with some of our most important neighbors. 
   I am very pleased that the full Senate is now considering the conference report on H.R. 434, which includes a number of trade enhancement measures, including the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act and Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement. Although I fully support all the measures in this package, I have a particular interest in the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement Act. Since the passage of NAFTA put our Caribbean neighbors at a competitive disadvantage, I have worked to enhance the Caribbean Basin Initiative that was originally passed in 1983. I thank Senators ROTH, MOYNIHAN, and LOTT for their support in bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor, in addition to their tireless work with the Senate and House conferees to reach agreement on a number of provisions included in this bill. 
   Over the past 7 years, I have worked to enhance and build upon our existing trade relationship with our neighbors in the Caribbean Basin region. Three times, in 1993, 1995, and 1997, I introduced CBI enhancement legislation to achieve this important goal. On February 3, 1999, in response to the overwhelming devastation and destruction caused by Hurricane Georges and Hurricane Mitch, I introduced the Central American and Caribbean Relief Act. This bill represented a broad and comprehensive strategy to provide immediate disaster relief, economic and infrastructure recovery and development, and long-term trade enhancements that would benefit both the United States and the countries in the region well into the new millennium. 
   Although we passed legislation in March 1999 that provided immediate disaster relief to the countries in the region that were impacted by Hurricanes Georges and Mitch, I am pleased that we are now considering final passage of a bill that includes many of the long term trade enhancement provisions I introduced in the Central American and Caribbean Relief Act. Trade is the best form of aid. Enacting this legislation is critical to the continued economic health of our nation and the economic health of our closest neighbors in the Caribbean and Latin America. It is also in our national security interests. 
   There are many compelling reasons to pass this legislation. The first is humanitarian. I have made three trips to the region in the year following the devastation of Hurricane Georges and Hurricane Mitch. I know that many of my colleagues have also seen the destruction caused by these hurricanes. These two destructive storms caused a level of death and devastation not seen in this hemisphere in over 200 years.  
   We have all heard of the tremendous loss of life, economic disruption, and human suffering caused by these hurricanes. As a neighbor, a friend, and a great nation, we have an obligation to respond with assistance that will help the region recover as rapidly as possible. 
   A second reason to pass this legislation is economic: CBI enhancements are in the best economic interest of the United States. Experience shows us that providing trade benefits to the Caribbean basin in good for the United States. Following enactment of the Caribbean Basin Initiative in 1983, our trade position with the region improved from a deficit of $3 billion in 1983 to a surplus of nearly $3.5 billion in 1998. Between 1983 and 1998, U.S. exports to the region increased fourfold, while total imports into the U.S. from the region grew by less than 20 per cent. On a per capita basis, our trade surplus with the CBI region has consistently out-paced our trade surplus with any other region of the world. In fact, since 1995, U.S. exports to the CBI countries have increased by approximately 32 percent. Over 58 million consumers in the 24 countries in the CBI region purchase 70 percent of their non-oil imports from the United States. 
   Yet another reason to strengthen the Caribbean economy is the stability of our closest neighbors. In 1983 the Caribbean Basin, which includes Central America, was a region inflamed with violent conflicts and rampant drug trafficking. The primary goal of the initial CBI legislation was to stabilize the region by building stronger, more diverse economies, and to enhance our national security by reducing the flow of illegal drugs and illegal immigrants into the United States. 
   While everyone can agree that the region's worst days are behind it, we have a continued national security interest in the Caribbean Basin--such as stemming the flow of illegal drugs into the United States. Without assistance to restart the regional economy and make it possible for people to provide for their families, the nations in the region will be even more susceptible to the scourge of drug trafficking. The people of the region must have opportunities in the legal economy so that they may feed their families and resist the financial temptations associated with drug trafficking. 
   In addition, failing to enact CBI enhancements will increase the pressure for migration to the United States. The people of the region must have real opportunity at home so that they are not forced to flee in order to find employment and feed their families. 
   Passage of this legislation is not only critical to ensure that the Caribbean Basin is no longer negatively affected by NAFTA, but it will also boost the region's long-term competitiveness with Asian nations, particularly in the textile industry. 
   Although current CBI textile production costs are somewhat higher than costs in Asia, the textile products of most Asian nations are currently subject to quotas imposed by the Multi-Fiber Agreement, now known as the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing. This restriction on Asian textiles has enabled the CBI region to remain competitive, and further, the CBI region has become a significant market for fabric woven in U.S. mills from yarn spun in the U.S. originating from U.S. cotton growers. 
   However, in 2005, the Asian import quotas will be phased out. At that time, textile production in the Caribbean basin will be placed at a distinct and growing disadvantage. Disinvestment in the region will occur, reducing the incentive to use any material from U.S. textile mills or cotton grown in the United States. 
   That is why passing CBI enhancement legislation now is critical to the U.S. textile and yarn industries, as well as to the U.S. cotton growers. Sixty-four thousand U.S. textile workers depend on our partnership with the Caribbean. Overall, four hundred thousand U.S. jobs are dependent upon textile exports to the CBI region. Only by providing incentives for the development of strong relationships with apparel manufacturers in our hemisphere will we have any chance to maintain a market for U.S. cotton and textiles after the Asian quotas are eliminated in 2005. 
   Inherent in our CBI enhancement efforts are public and private investment incentives that will increase productivity and the quality of life within the region. We anticipate the textile industry will provide investment capital targeted for the construction and maintenance of schools, health and child care facilities, and technology enhancements to increase the productivity of both workers and existing manufacturing facilities. A well trained and healthy workforce will be more productive and efficient as Caribbean basin producers compete for shares of the international textile market. 
   Mr. President, we are about to make a fundamental decision that will impact twenty-seven of our closest neighbors. The choice is clear, stark and beyond reasonable debate. Will we engage or will we retreat? I urge my colleagues to extend this assistance to our neighbors in order to expand commerce and promote economic and political stability in the region. 
   With the final passage of this legislation, we have an unprecedented opportunity to strengthen our economic and national security through the enhancement of our trade relationship with our neighbors in the region. We must act prior to 2005 to build a dynamic, formidable Western Hempishere trade alliance that encourages U.S. industry to invest in the region and to make commitments to rebuilding the industrial infrastructure in the region. 
   There are a number of additional initiatives, both at home and abroad, that we should aggressively pursue in order to build a true ``partnership for success'' with both the Caribbean and the other nations of the Western Hemisphere. Mr. President, as we take the first step in this process today in passing CBI enhancement legislation, let me outline and advocate a comprehensive strategy for economic growth and development throughout our hemisphere. 
   First, here in the U.S., we should move quickly to modernize and improve both the facilities and organizations that manage our international trade. 
   For example, in recent years, the variety of trade and commerce that are carried out at seaports has greatly expanded. This continuing growth of activity at seaports has increased the opportunities for a variety of illegal activities, including drug trafficking, cargo theft, auto theft, illegal immigration, and the diversion of cargo, such as food products, to avoid safety inspections. 
   In 1998, I asked the President to establish a federal commission to evaluate the nature and extent of crime and the overall state of security in seaports, and to develop recommendations for improving the response of federal, state and local agencies to all types of seaport crime. In response to my request, President Clinton established the Interagency Commission on Crime and Security in U.S. Seaports on April 27, 1999. 
   Although the Commission will soon release its final report, it has already identified at least four preliminary recommendations for improving seaport security: 
   First, we should establish minimum security guidelines for all U.S. seaports. These would include uniform practices for physical security, certification for private security officers at seaports, guidelines for restricting vehicle access to seaports, and other, similar measures. 
   Second, local ports should establish and maintain local port security committees, made up of federal, state, and local agencies with trade and law enforcement responsibilities at seaports. These committees would discuss and develop solutions for issues related to port security. For example, a joint initiative among state and local police departments in South Florida, the FBI, and the Customs Service, known as the Miami-Dade County Auto Theft Task Force, has been very successful. In the last 3 years, this task force has recovered 851 stolen vehicles valued at $19 million. 
   Third, federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies should conduct cooperative, interagency threat assessments for seaports within their jurisdictions, with an eye towards coordinating their efforts to combat criminal activity. 
   And finally, we should encourage the development and deployment of new technologies that would further assist law enforcement and trade officials in  carrying out their missions at the ports. Currently, few ports employ measures such as security cameras, carbon dioxide detectors, vessel tracking devices, or enhanced x-ray equipment, all of which could assist law enforcement personnel in accomplishing their mission. Enhanced technology will not only facilitate the movement of legitimate trade, but will also assist in the rapid detection of criminal and terrorist activities. 
   The second critical domestic initiative is the modernization of the U.S. Customs Service. On a typical day, dedicated Customs officers in over 900 U.S. field locations and 34 foreign offices perform multiple tasks associated with the successful performance of the agency's mission. This includes the examination of 550 vessels, 45,000 trucks, 344,000 vehicles, and 1.3 million passengers. 
   Perhaps even more important, Customs officers seize over 4000 pounds of narcotics and $1.2 million in drug money in a day, and they make 67 criminal arrests of those involved in a various illegal activities, including drug running and money laundering. And finally, in their role as facilitator of U.S. trade, Customs processes over 58,600 import shipments worth $2.6 billion, monitors 27,000 export shipments, and collects over $60 million of revenue per day. 
   It is vital that the automation systems upon which Customs relies to perform its mission-critical functions be up-to-date and capable of handling the ever-increasing pressure on the Service. And this is the problem. 
   Currently, the Customs Service relies on severely aging automation systems. In particular, Customs Automated Commercial System (known as ACS), which is at the core of their trade enforcement and compliance functions, and is over sixteen (16) years old, is increasingly susceptible to short-term ``brown-outs'' and long-term failure. With an ACS system failure, even for a few hours, the Customs Service's responsibility for protecting American borders becomes significantly more difficult. 
   Commissioner Kelly and the Customs Service are ready to move forward with the modernization of their information technology systems. They have determined the funding requirements to accomplish their modernization goals in the most cost-effective fashion. Customs will require $12 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2000, and they have requested $338.4 million for fiscal year 2001 in order to complete this project. 
   The importance of Customs modernization cannot be overstated; it is a fundamental component of moving U.S. trade policy into the 21st century. I urge my colleagues to support Commissioner Kelly in his effort to streamline and modernize the Customs Service, and to fully fund this critically important initiative. 
   Third, we must pass legislation that recognizes the comprehensive role of the Customs service in both trade facilitation and law enforcement. Both the Senate and the House have passed bills to reauthorize the U.S. Customs Service. Both bills would provide Customs with the necessary funding it requires to perform its multi-faceted functions of drug interdiction, passenger and cargo inspection, and trade facilitation. 
   Both bills enhance drug interdiction and investigative efforts, the facilitation of international trade, the targeted use of sophisticated technology, the efficient allocation of assets and resources, and the enhancement of Customs internal affairs functions. In addition, the Senate bill directs the Customs Service to establish performance goals and indicators, as well as priorities and objectives by which we may evaluate the effectiveness of Customs operations. 
   I urge both chambers of Congress to resolve quickly the differences between the two bills, and to pass a comprehensive Customs Reauthorization Act as a demonstration of our commitment to support the first line of defense against the flow of drugs and drug money across our borders, and boost the first line of offense in promoting trade. 
   In the interest of expanding trade and economic development throughout the Western Hemisphere, there are a number of legislative initiatives already under consideration by the Senate that should be finalized and passed before we complete our business this year. 
   As I have already stated, the primary goal of the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI) was to stabilize the region by building stronger and more diverse economies, encouraging growth in international trade, developing a strong economic relationship between the U.S. and the region, and creating employment opportunities in the legitimate economy as an alternative to drug trafficking. 
   In 1991, after 8 years of resounding success in the CBI region, Congress passed the Andean Trade Preferences Act (ATPA), providing CBI-like trade benefits to the countries of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. In the nine years following enactment of ATPA, U.S. exports to the Andean region have more than doubled, from $3.9 billion in 1991 to nearly $9 billion in 1998. U.S. exports to Colombia account for over half of this increase, growing from $2 billion in 1991 to $4.8 billion in 1998. During the same time period, Andean exports to the U.S. increased by almost 80 percent. 
   In the wake of the Asian financial crisis, Colombia and its Andean neighbors are struggling with issues similar to the challenges of the CBI region--only much worse. After more than 60 years of sustained growth, Colombia is experiencing its worst economic recession since the 1930s. Unemployment in Colombia is at an historic high of 21 percent; the Colombian economy is suffering from three consecutive quarters of negative growth. The economic downturn in Colombia has harmed both foreign and domestic investor confidence in the Andean region. 
   Drug trafficking is undermining the democratic foundations of the Andean region. The Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) recently released information indicating Colombian coca cultivation has increased 140 percent over the past five years. More than 300,000 acres of coca are currently under cultivation in the jungles and mountains of Colombia. Actual cocaine production in Colombia has risen from 230 metric tons to 520 metric tons, a 126 percent increase in the same five year period. ONDCP estimates that 80 percent of the cocaine available on our nation's streets was cultivated on Colombian farm land, processed in Colombian drug labs, or smuggled into the U.S. through Colombia's roads, rivers, and air space. 
   The people of the Andean region are also suffering from the rampant guerilla violence that plagues Colombia and threatens the stability of the entire Andean region. In 1998, there were over 21,000 murders and 1,100 kidnapings in Colombia. Ninety percent of these murders and kidnapings were related to the armed conflict between the Government of Colombia and the anti-government insurgent groups who control almost 40 percent of the country, are heavily involved in cocaine and heroin trafficking, and who regularly violate the national sovereignty of their Andean neighbors. 
   Colombia's best and brightest citizens are leaving their homes in record numbers. Since 1995, over 1 million Colombians have fled their country to escape the drug and guerilla related violence that threatens the entire region. In the last year alone, more than 100,000 Colombians have moved to South Florida. Seventy percent of the Colombians displaced by the violence and terror in their country will never return to Colombia. 
   In response to this crisis, the government of Colombia has formulated Plan Colombia. The administration, in turn, has responded generously to Colombia's needs by considering a supplemental appropriations package of more than $1.6 billion to help the country in this time of crisis. This will supplement over $4.0 billion being spent by Colombia itself. 
   Fundamental to Plan Colombia, and to the government's ability to succeed in its efforts to safeguard the country, will be efforts to encourage economic growth and provide jobs to the Colombian people. Without new economic opportunities, more and more Colombians will turn to illicit activities to support their families or seek to join the growing numbers of people who are leaving the country to find a better, safer future for their families. 
   As part of its Colombian assistance package, the administration has proposed $145 million over the next 2 years for alternative economic development  targeted toward Colombian coca and poppy growers. Although agricultural reform is an important component of the administration's plan, agricultural programs alone are insufficient in addressing the alternative development needs in the Andean region. Again Mr. President, trade is the best form of aid. 
   The United States is at a critical juncture with its neighbors in the CBI and Andean regions. As we enhance our trading relationship with our partners in the Caribbean by passing the legislation under consideration today, we must also work to expand and enhance our trading relationships with the countries of the Andean region. Currently, under ATPA, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru enjoy the same trade benefits that we currently extend to the CBI region. However, upon final passage and enactment of CBI enhancements, our Andean trading partners will be at a competitive disadvantage. 
   To promote economic growth and regional stability, the Congress must consider additional trade measures that benefit the Andean region. First, the Congress should grant early renewal of ATPA. Early renewal of this important trade agreement will signal the United States' support of Colombia's economic reform efforts, and will boost the confidence of both domestic and international investors in pursuing business opportunities that create jobs and enhance international trade in Colombia and the Andean region. 
   Second, the Congress should consider granting CBI parity to the ATPA beneficiaries. During 1999, Colombia and its Andean neighbors exported approximately $562 million in textiles and apparel to the United States. While insignificant in comparison to the $8.4 billion in textile and apparel exports originating in the CBI region, Andean textile and apparel production sustains more than 200,000 jobs in Colombia alone--valuable jobs in the legitimate economy. Absent CBI parity, the Andean region will find itself at a significant competitive disadvantage with the 27 countries of the CBI region. 
   Third, the Senate should approve passage of the administration's supplemental assistance package for Colombia. The proposal responds to an emergency situation, expresses a strong U.S. commitment to Colombia, and complements other key elements of Plan Colombia. I believe that it will help mobilize higher levels of commitment from the Colombian government and the private sector, and will catalyze and sustain multilateral efforts of support for Colombia. 
   As we consider the final passage of CBI enhancements, as well as the President's Colombian aid package, the United States has an unprecedented opportunity to make significant accomplishments in regions ravaged by natural disasters, economic contraction, and the scourge of drug trafficking. However, as we make the fateful decisions, we must recognize that the dollars we spend on eradication and interdiction will be wasted unless the expansion and enhancement of international trade is included as a critical component of an effective economic assistance and counter drug strategy. 
   We must also aggressively pursue the Fee Trade Area of the Americas, which will put in place the future framework for trade in our hemisphere. We cannot afford to fail in this task, and I am encouraged by the progress that has been made up to this point. 
   Last year, Congress passed my resolution stating that Miami should host the permanent Secretariat of the Free Trade Area of the Americas. Coupled with the passage of the trade legislation under consideration today, these actions indicate that the United States Congress still believes that opening markets and expanding economic links abroad are in our national interests. We must continue to demonstrate our leadership in this movement. 
   There is also much that can and should be accomplished by our Caribbean partners to ensure that their end of the international trading system is as efficient as it can be. They must work to ensure the efficiency of their seaports, airports, and transportation systems. We can help with technical assistance. International institutions such as the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank can use their assistance programs to promote efficiency and increase investment in the textile and apparel sector of the Caribbean economy. We can also work with these institutions and industries to ensure that internationally recognized labor rights are respected. Such initiatives will continue to build a consensus in the U.S. and aboard on the benefits of expanded trade. 
   Upon final passage of CBI enhancement legislation, we will begin the important process of establishing a true ``partnership for success'' with some of our important neighbors. Mr. President, the action of the Senate today is a good start, but is only the beginning. I urge my colleagues to look towards the future, and to take advantage of the real economic benefits that can be achieved by further enhancing our relationship with the nations of the Western Hemisphere.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, for the purposes of a unanimous consent request, I ask unanimous consent that after the Senator from Minnesota, the Senator from Louisiana be recognized next, and then an intervening Republican, and then myself to be the next Democrat, and then Senator LINCOLN be the next Democrat after that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Senator LANDRIEU is the first, I will be the next, Senator LINCOLN would be after myself, with the intervening Republicans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the idea would be that these would be the next three Democrats, and if there were Republicans, they would be intervening in order to maintain the alternating nature of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, are we going to break at 12:30? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I commend the Senator from Maine for her very thoughtful remarks. She focused on the large issues that are appropriate for the Senate, and she spoke in the spirit of the importance of what we are dealing with, the future of American children, and the necessity that we approach it with a level of seriousness and bipartisanship. I thank her for her very succinct, extremely valuable contribution to this debate. 
   In that same vein, I wish to share an observation that some of us heard recently by a prominent American historian, Steven Ambrose. He is best known for his numerous books on military history, particularly on World War II, but he has also written a Pulitzer prize-winning book on the Lewis and Clark Expedition--an expedition which opened up much of America to serious study and exploration. It was an expedition that took place between 1804 and 1806. It comprised traversing some 7,600 miles of the recently acquired Louisiana Purchase in the northwest corner of the United States. What Mr. Ambrose pointed out is that the average length of each day of the Lewis and Clark Expedition was 15 miles. But the techniques used by Lewis and Clark between 1804 and 1806 were exactly the techniques that Julius Caesar would have used if he had the same assignment, which is to say that for a period of over 2,000 years their had been virtually no progress in man's mastery of the field of transportation. Since Lewis and Clark, in less than 200 years, we have had an explosion of transportation advancement. We are now in the process of building in space an international space station which will become the platform for which we will explore the universe. 
   That is how much progress we have made in 200 years after 2,000 years or more of stagnation. What is the explanation? What has happened that last allowed us to make this much progress? 
   According to this eminent historian, the single most significant fact that has allowed the 200 years of progress has been the fact that we committed ourselves as a nation--and much of the world--to the proposition of universal education; that we are allowing, for the first time in the history of mankind and in the last 200 years of America, hopefully, every human to reach their full potential. 
   He used the example of the Wright brothers. If the Wright brothers had been born 100 years earlier--just four generations earlier than in fact they were born--by all accounts, given the nature of their family and its economic and social standing, both of the Wright brothers would have been illiterate, and therefore the world would have been denied the ingenuity which played such a critical part in all of these great advancements which now benefit all of us. 
   We are not talking about a trivial issue. We are talking about a fundamental issue that has reshaped America and reshaped 
   the world in the last two centuries, and which will reshape us again in this new 21st century and the centuries beyond. We are dealing with one of the most basic issues facing the world and America. 
   I am pleased that the Senate's new Democrats, with much of the membership having spoken on the floor this morning, have taken on this issue as our first contribution to the policy today in the Senate. That is, I hope, illustrative of the seriousness of our group and its desire to be a constructive part of helping the Senate and the American people develop policy in basic areas such as education. 
   I think we would all agree that there are certain important principles that  we should look at as we approach what the Federal role should be in education. Those would include words such as ``accountability,'' ``reward,'' ``excellence,'' and ``resources.'' 
   On February 5, I asked a group of Florida educators to meet together in Tampa to discuss what they believe, based on their professional experience, to be some of the priorities the Congress should look at as it reauthorizes the fundamental education act for our Nation, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   Here are some of the responses from this group of educators. 
   First, not necessarily in priority on their points, was the importance of additional resources; that if we are going to achieve our purposes, we must have a Federal commitment as well as a State and local commitment which is commensurate to the challenge that is before us. 
   The RRR response to this request: It will increase the Federal role in education by more than $30 billion over the next 5 years, the most significant increase in funding since the program was established in 1965. 
   To underscore the importance of this, we talked about the implications of this chart. This chart is an attempt to indicate what has happened in America over the last 150 years in terms of the requirements for self-sufficiency by an older adolescent or young adult in America. 
   In 1850, there was a relatively limited amount of knowledge required to be self-sufficient. Literacy was not such a requirement. Many Americans functioned very effectively at a high level of self-sufficiency without being able to read or write in 1850. 
   Today, there has been a four-time explosion in the requirements of knowledge for an American to be self-sufficient. That explosion has not been a straight line. It has been an explosion driven by technology. Note the major increase in the knowledge demands that occurred in the late and early 20th century commensurate with the movement of America from a rural economy to an industrial economy. But the big increase has come well within our lifetime. 
   Coincidentally, it almost starts at the time the first Elementary and Secondary Act was passed in the mid-sixties with an explosion of knowledge requirements as Americans entering the workforce had significantly greater expectations of what their skill level would be, particularly in areas of mathematics and communication skills. 
   Mr. President, the second aspect of this chart is an attempt to indicate that one of the fundamental relationships in the acquisition of knowledge by Americans has been the relationship between what the family can contribute to that knowledge and what is provided by a formal educational institution, which we typically refer to as a school. 
   In the 1850s, the family provided more than half of the knowledge of their children. Typically, they were doing so by educating the children to be able to read and write to achieve that level of literacy. 
   It was the development of science and technology that began to effect the relationship of what a family and what a school was expected to provide to children's education. As science and technology has become more pervasive and more complex, the relative proportion of knowledge provided by the school and that which could be provided by the typical family has altered. 
   Whereas, in 1850 the family was providing two-thirds of the education, today the school is providing about two-thirds of the education. 
   The significance to me of this chart is the challenge that we as a society have to assure that all American children have an opportunity to acquire this much greater level of education; that our schools which are being called upon to provide a larger and larger share have the necessary resources--human resources, financial resources, and resources of support by the community--in order to carry out their responsibility. 
   We are going to be voting shortly on some major trade agreements with Caribbean countries--Central American countries, African countries, and China. One of the recurring realities of all of those trade agreements is that we are opening our markets broader and broader to countries whose standard of living and whose per capita annual incomes are dramatically lower by factors of 20, 30, 40 times what they are in the United States. 
   The only way the United States is going to be able to compete and maintain our standard of living is to assure that all Americans are getting this level of knowledge so that they can be full participants in the most effective and most competitive economy in the world--the economy of the United States of America. 
   Again, this chart underscores the seriousness of the issue we are considering. 
   We spent a good deal of time at that Tampa meeting with educators discussing this chart and its implications. The educators told me in addition to resources, they wanted more flexibility, the opportunity to adapt to the specific needs of the communities and the children they serve. That is the approach taken in the RRR program. We focus on results more than process and, thus, allow more flexibility to achieve those results. The educators said they don't mind accountability if there are resources there to realistically achieve the goals that have been sought. RRR demands accountability but provides the resources needed to accomplish these goals. 
   Not only do we increase the total amount of resources by some $30 billion over 5 years, we also target these resources to the children who are most in need. When President Johnson talked about America's role in education, he was specifically talking about the chasm that existed between the abilities of poor children and more advantaged children to achieve what would be required to be competitive in the world. 
   The Federal role has been targeted at these at-risk children. We need to refocus our commitment. I am sorry to say there has been a tendency for the formulas that distribute Federal education money to succumb to the temptation to have everybody get some piece of the Federal dollar. The consequence of that is the funds have been so diluted we have been unable to focus a sufficient quantity on those children who need it the most and who are most dependent upon that additional Federal support in order to be able to achieve their educational needs. 
   Our very focused and stated position in the RRR legislation is that we believe, as a nation, this Congress needs to recommit ourselves to the proposition that the purpose of Federal assistance is to aid those children who are most at risk and that we should demonstrate that commitment by having a formula that targets the money to those children who are greatest in need. With that, we can then talk seriously about accountability. 
   The Senator from Alabama talked about what I call process or product accountability where we count the number of books in the library. There are other forms of accountability that assess overall student performance. The type of accountability we are advocating is an accountability that focuses on what the school and what the local educational agency can do to contribute to a student's educational attainment. It is what I describe as a value-added approach. How much did the school experience add to the educational development of the child? 
   I have been very critical of the educational assessment program which is currently being used by my State, by the State of Florida. The basis of my criticism is it does not assess the value added by schools; rather, it is an assessment of the total influences that have affected a student's performance. The most fundamental of those influences has nothing to do with what the school contributed but, rather, relates to the socioeconomic status of the family from which the child came. 
   I spoke on an earlier date and submitted for the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD a very thoughtful analysis of the Florida plan by a professor at Florida State University, Dr. Walter Tshinkel. In that assessment, Dr. Tshinkel took the schools in Leon County, FL, which is the county of which Tallahassee, the 
   State capital, is the county seat, and observed that if you looked at the affluence and poverty statistics of the various neighborhoods in Tallahassee and Leon County and assigned a letter grade based on that data alone without testing a single student, that 26 of the  33 school districts in the Leon County School District would have received exactly the same grade as they did when student test scores were taken into account. 
   That says to me what we have been essentially testing in Florida is not what the school contributes, but the socioeconomic status of the children who come into that school. 
   Professor Tshinkel went on to say if, in fact, you did assess on value added, what the school had contributed, you had almost a reversal of results. Schools that got F's actually should have gotten A's because they did the most to advance the students for which they had responsibility, and the schools that got A's should have gotten F's because they started with a very advantaged group of students and did not make that great of a contribution to their educational advancement. 
   RRR provides accountability for what the schools can be held accountable for, what they can reasonably contribute to a student's development and hence a student's performance. 
   Another topic discussed at our Tampa roundtable was professional development. It was very helpful that most of those who participated were current classroom teachers. These teachers are yearning for new avenues for professional development, for the time to be able to take advantage of these opportunities. The RRR will allow this to happen with a major new national focus on seeing that all of our teachers--those who are entering the profession and those who are at an advanced position as professional educators--have an opportunity to continue their professional development and enhancement. We can only do this in a comprehensive manner. 
   We believe strongly these principles are a key to achieving the challenge that America faces to provide the knowledge necessary for all Americans to be able to compete effectively in this rapidly changing world in which we live. 
   If this line on the chart of the increased need for knowledge to be self-sufficient in the world as it exists today is a harbinger of where that line would go in the 21st century, the challenge for American education and the challenge for this Congress to be responsive to the Federal role in education is a stunningly great challenge that requires the most serious attention of the Senate. 
   I thank all of my colleagues who have contributed to this debate, who have worked to bring forward to the Senate a proposal I believe is worthy of our task. Every 6 years we have a chance to analyze the programs that affect American children, from kindergarten to the 12th grade. This should be an opportunity not just to tinker around the edges, not just to make minor course corrections, but to look at the challenge we face to assure all American children, particularly those who enter the classroom with the least advantages, will have an opportunity to be successful, and through their success to contribute to the success of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to submit a resolution that designates the first Sunday in June as National Child's Day. 
   Our children are our future. I believe that most of my colleagues would agree that our children are, indeed, this nation's most precious resource--a resource that should be cherished and protected. 
   Sadly, Mr. President, over five million of America's children go to bed hungry at night. 
   In the last ten years there has been a 60 percent increase in the number of children in or in need of foster care services. 
   Many children in America face crises of grave proportions, especially as they enter their adolescent years. 
   We must make a commitment to reverse these trends. We must take the initiative to make each child in this nation a child who is loved, cared for and appreciated for his or herself. 
   The establishment of a National Child's Day will give all of us the unique opportunity to focus on our children's needs and to recognize their accomplishments. 
   National Child's Day will encourage families to spend more quality time together and will highlight the special importance of the child in the family unit. 
   This simple, yet important, resolution will foster family togetherness and ensure that our children receive all of the love, support, and attention that they deserve. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in establishing National Child's Day this year and for years to come. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have a lot to say and not much time in which to say it. The fundamental point is that this budget resolution represents a statement of the values of the Members of Congress, representing the 270 million citizens of the United States of America. What this budget resolution says is that we are giving a priority to tax cuts over meeting the moral, ethical, and legal obligations of the U.S. Government to its citizens by failing to make a commitment to strengthen Social Security and to strengthen the Medicare program. That is the fundamental message of this budget resolution. 
   This budget resolution requires the Senate Finance Committee to report two bills with tax cuts totalling $150 billion in the next 5 years. The Finance Committee can report separate legislation cutting taxes by an additional $25 billion over 5 years. 
   The Finance Committee can report even greater tax cuts if in July the Congressional Budget Office projects higher on-budget surpluses. 
   There is no similar set of mandates or permission as it relates to strengthening Social Security and strengthening and expanding Medicare. We must do these things. And we can do these things relative to tax cuts. There is no similar provision relative to our obligation to Social Security and Medicare. 
   We already have embarked on a serious and, I say, unfocused tax-cutting process. If you add up what we have already done in the educational savings account, the Patients' Bill of Rights, the minimum wage, small business tax cut, and what was proposed this week in terms of marriage penalty tax cuts, and suspension of the gas tax, with that hole in our transportation funding being filled by the non-Social Security surplus, we have already spent approximately two-thirds of the non-Social Security surplus we anticipate for this next fiscal year and approximately two-thirds of what we anticipate for the next 5 years with those actions alone. 
   I suggest that is not a prudent way to go about using the non-Social Security surplus--that we ought to do first things first. The first thing we should do is to meet the obligation this Government has to its citizens in the areas of Social Security and Medicare. Why are those two such priorities? They are priorities because the citizens of the United States every payday are paying into those trust funds for Social Security and for Medicare. They have a legal, contractual obligation from the Government to meet those benefits which they anticipate. We need to have a similar commitment to assure that those programs are going to be capable of meeting those obligations. 
   We also have not been faithful in this budget resolution to some commitments both Houses have made in terms of a prescription medication benefit. 
   Both the Senate- and the House-passed resolutions infer--and the leadership of both Houses publicly stated--that we would be reserving $40 billion over the next 5 years for purposes of a prescription medication benefit. 
   We received from the conference committee a commitment to spend $20 billion for additional access to prescription medication--not a specific modification of the Medicare program that would incorporate prescription medication as a benefit of Medicare. The other $20 billion would be available only if there were changes in the structure of the Medicare program which would be scored by the Congressional Budget Office as increasing the solvency of the Medicare program. 
   This is not the prescription medication benefit the American people expected. This is not the benefit we anticipated when we passed the budget resolution in the Senate. It is not a prescription medication benefit that will respond to the realities of modern medicine. 
   One of the reasons many of us believe it is so important to have a prescription medication benefit is to change the fundamental culture of the Medicare system. Medicare was adopted in 1965 as an acute-care program. If you were sick enough to go in the hospital, or if you were run over by a truck, Medicare would provide financing for your health care. 
   What we need to be thinking about as we start the 21st century is the approach to health care most Americans want. That is an approach that emphasizes prevention and wellness and 
   the maintenance of quality of life. Almost every step required to do that, whether it is to moderate diabetes, to reduce the prospect of stroke and heart disease, to deal with hormonal imbalances, all of those things that are fundamental to the quality of life, particularly of older Americans, requires prescription medication as a key to this accomplishment. 
   Providing this prescription medication benefit is not just adding another benefit to Medicare, as has been asserted; rather, it is changing the fundamental orientation of Medicare to one that will focus on the wellness of the American people, and not just wait until they get sick enough to go in the hospital. 
   That is the fundamental issue that is at risk with this budget resolution which puts at the top of the pyramid of American values providing unspecified tax cuts and puts at the bottom of American values meeting our contract with the Americans who have built this great Nation through strength in Social Security and Medicare. 
   I urge the rejection of this budget resolution. Hopefully, we will have an opportunity to adopt one that is more in keeping with the desires of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that after my colleague, the Senator from Texas, completes her remarks, if I can have 10 minutes for purposes of introduction of legislation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. If I may modify the request, I am in the category with the Senator from Maine. We have topics we wish to discuss other than the gasoline tax. We appreciate that debate should be completed. We just want to have an order that, after the gasoline tax debate, we may introduce our legislation. We want to be included in the unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for up to 10 minutes for purposes of introduction of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. In deference to the Presiding Officer, if a situation arises in which he feels my remarks should be terminated or restrained, if he will so indicate, I will be pleased to defer to his wishes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, for many weeks, we have been dealing with the tragedy of Elian Gonzalez. If this tragedy teaches us anything, it is that the U.S. immigration laws have not been constructed in a manner that accounts for the special needs of our Nation's most precious resource--I also say our world's most precious resource--our children. 
   Yesterday, CNN-USA Today released a Gallup Poll on the Elian Gonzalez tragedy. That poll said by a 2-to-1 margin Americans believe Elian Gonzalez should live with his father in Cuba rather than with relatives in the United States. But that same poll, also by a 2-to-1 margin, found that Americans disapprove of the way the Government has handled this case. That disapproval of the way in which the Government has handled this case could be a disapproval of hundreds of cases if they had the same notoriety as Elian. 
   I come this afternoon to introduce legislation that will require the Federal Government to dramatically improve its treatment of the thousands of unaccompanied children who arrive in the United States each year. 
   Many of us are parents. I personally have been blessed with four beautiful daughters and 10 wonderful grandchildren. We all know the special joy a child brings to our lives. We know that bond across generations that relationship between a parent or a grandparent and a child brings. We all want to pour all of the history, all of our personal experience into safeguarding and into paving the way in the best interests of our children. 
   The Bible tells us to take this responsibility seriously. In the book of Proverbs, it imparts this wisdom:  
   Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.  
   We all have that responsibility to train up a child. 
   As that passage from Proverbs suggests, we have a responsibility to protect and nurture all of our children. Their future--our planet's future--depends on it. 
   Unfortunately, U.S. law prevents us from carrying out that responsibility with respect to some of this planet's most vulnerable children. 
   Each year, there are about 5,000 unaccompanied children who are detained by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Some children come to this country seeking asylum, others hope to be reunified with families, and others seek nothing but a better life. While many of these children ultimately are deported or voluntarily returned home, some have legitimate claims which merit our attention. 
   Regardless of the outcome of their cases, in most instances, these children must endure the rigors of an immigration system that is anything but child friendly. Unfortunately, many children in INS custody end up spending time in jail-like settings while their cases are pending. They have no one to guide them through complex immigration law and procedure. 
   Moreover, immigration laws are technical and inflexible and do not permit compassion or frequently even common wisdom to enter into the equation when determining the fate of a child. 
   I will give some examples. Six Chinese children were detained by the INS last year in Oregon. Though charged with no crime, they were sent to a juvenile detention facility for 8 months where they were exposed to violent youthful offenders who had committed crimes such as murder and drug trafficking. One 
   of the group, a 15-year-old girl, was forced to remain at the jail for several weeks after she had been granted asylum, even though she had relatives living in New York. 
   Such innocent children should not have to endure exposure to hardened juveniles and criminals as part of their experience with the U.S. immigration process. 
   Equally compelling is the story of a Kosovar Albanian boy who was suffering from severe depression. He was held in a juvenile correctional facility for over 6 months during his immigration proceedings. The INS provided psychiatric care but by a professional who spoke only English. After a mental episode, the boy was placed in the maximum security section of the jail rather than being provided with appropriate care. The INS even balked at placing the boy in foster care after he was granted asylum, thus further delaying his stay in an inappropriate facility. 
   The Federal Government's insensitivity to child immigrants is also illustrated by a recent case of two children from the Caribbean. Their mother is a legal, permanent resident in the United States, but she had left her minor children behind with the belief they would soon follow. The mother promptly applied for visas for her children. Yet the children were required to wait in their home country for months and, in some cases, even years before they could even get an interview at the local U.S. Embassy to pave the way for reunification with their mother. 
   These are just three examples of children who were improperly treated as a result of our current immigration laws. Many of these cases are the result of INS's inherent conflict of interest: Children are detained and frequently deported by the same agency that is responsible for caring for them and protecting their legal rights. This system does not work well enough, and it needs improvement. Children are entitled to receive care from child welfare authorities who will act in their best interest and who are trained to protect children's rights. 
   Indeed, there is an irony. The Federal Government requires States to place  children in facilities that are separate and apart from adult correctional facilities. The INS should at least abide by the same standard with respect to alien children. 
   To address these problems, my legislation takes four actions: First, it requires that INS place children in its custody in a facility appropriate for children; in other words, no jails. These facilities are required to provide for the health, welfare, and educational needs of children. 
   Two, provide children in INS custody with a guardian ad litem to champion that child's best interest. Notably, this guardian would not be associated with the INS in order to eliminate any conflict of interest. 
   Three, give the Attorney General the flexibility and the authority in extraordinary cases to evaluate a child's case on the basis of what is in the best interest of the child. 
   Four, to direct the General Accounting Office to conduct a study and report back to Congress regarding whether and to what extent U.S. diplomatic officials are fulfilling their obligation to reunify on a priority basis children in foreign countries whose parents are legally present in the United States. 
   With these changes in the law, children will no longer be forced to struggle through the immigration process alone under the adverse conditions to which they are currently exposed. The INS will have the flexibility to treat children in its custody with greater compassion and common sense. 
   I hope the recent attention which has and will continue to surround the Elian Gonzalez tragedy will encourage us to shield all our children from the vagaries of U.S. immigration law. Our future generations deserve to be protected, not persecuted or prosecuted. They deserve to be inspired, not incarcerated. They deserve to have decisions about their future made consistent with what is in their best interest, not confused by conflicts of interest. 
   I conclude with hope that this Congress will give attention to an issue which affects not one child but thousands of children who are in the custody of the United States and whose treatment reflects our fundamental American values of justice and concern for their rights. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 2966. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senators FEINSTEIN and  KOHL be added as cosponsors of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this amendment would reserve $15 billion over the next 5 years to be able to meet the projected additional funding for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. We propose this additional funding as part of a comprehensive Elementary and Secondary Education Act reform which focuses on principles such as accountability based on student performance, greater flexibility in terms of the States and local school districts' ability to utilize this money, and a strong focus on the at-risk child, the child who today is falling further and further behind and is going to be less able to be an equal contributant to the new economy era in which they will be living, unless the Federal Government increases the strength of its partnership with the States and local school districts. I urge adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, pursuant to section 904 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, I move to waive the applicable sections of that act for consideration of the pending amendment. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will be offering an amendment, which is described as Graham amendment No. 1, in which I am joined by Senators LIEBERMAN, BAYH, LANDRIEU, LINCOLN, BREAUX, ROBB, and EDWARDS, which relates to a new approach to the Federal role in primary and secondary education. 
   This is the first major legislative initiative of the Senate New Democrats. We are a group of Democrats who feel passionately about the importance of a partnership between the Federal Government and the State and local school districts for the benefit of our children, but we feel pragmatic as to the means by which we can achieve that appropriate partnership. 
   We are going to advocate that that partnership has several fundamental principles. One of those is accountability for student results. A second is additional resources. 
   If I could put it in a common form, we believe you will not make the cow bigger by just weighing the cow every day; that you have to provide the resources in order to be able to achieve the goals, the high goals, and to meet the accountability standards we believe are necessary to set for our children in order to achieve our national objectives. 
   We also are believers in the principle of greater flexibility at the State and local levels; that our Federal programs should be more focused and concentrated. We believe the primary focus of Federal programs should be on the children in the greatest need, the at-risk children, the children who too often fall through the cracks of current American education. 
   Individual members of our group will speak to the various principles of this legislation. I want to use the remainder of my time to talk about the issue of accountability because, in my opinion, that is a central and fundamental issue. It is a word that has many different meanings. Some people define accountability in the context of an accountant--that accountability is to be certain you have properly accounted for all of those things that were input into the education system; that you have the appropriate number of books in the school library, as an example. We believe those are important. 
   We do not believe that is the accountability the Federal Government should be looking for from States and local school districts. We also do not believe that accountability is accountability for student performance alone. We recognize that student performance is heavily influenced by many factors, particularly the socioeconomic circumstances of the family of the student. The challenge, rather, is an accountability that focuses on those aspects of the experience in the school and the classroom that has contributed to the students' educational growth and development. 
   So we will be attempting to present an accountability that is school based, school focused, but is determined by how much educational value the school experience has added to the students' progress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this group of Senate Democrats appreciates this opportunity and accepts the challenge. We understand that education is fundamental to the growth of America today and even more fundamental to our progress tomorrow. Our willingness to invest intelligently in our children is a test of our Nation's intelligence about shaping its future. I am pleased to be joined by my colleagues in this effort and look forward to their illumination on these principles of our education proposal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I express my appreciation to my colleagues in the Senate, our new Democrats, for having so eloquently outlined the goals of our amendment and what those goals represent in our vision of American public education. 
   We believe American public education is fundamental to our Nation's progress. We are going to be faced with enormous economic challenges from around the world. The only way America will be able to maintain its current standard of living and improve that standard for the next generation is by an investment in our people, which means an investment in public education. 
   We believe passionately in the importance of that. We recognize that the States and local school districts have the primary responsibility, but we think the Federal Government should be a meaningful and constructive partner and that the principles in this amendment and the principles we will be offering when we debate the Elementary and Secondary Education Act are critical to achieving that constructive partnership. 
   The most obvious thing this amendment will do--since we are talking about an amendment to a budget resolution--is to reserve an additional $15 billion, over the next 5 years, for the purposes of the Federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   We do that because we believe that additional amount of Federal contribution, particularly with the flexibility, targeted at the most in-need students, with an accountability system that relates to student performance in the classroom, that that investment is going to be a necessary part of lifting the performance of our American students, especially those who are most in need. 
   If we fail to do that, if we fail, at the Federal level, to make that additional commitment to their education, I am afraid we are consigning the next decade of American public education to the same critique we hear so much of today--that we are not doing an adequate job of preparing our children for the future, that we are contributing not just to a digital divide but to a socioeconomic divide among our children, and that those children who do not have the kind of support we have traditionally associated with the family's contribution to child development will continue to fall further and further behind their fellow students who are more advantaged. 
   We believe this is a pragmatic approach to a passionately held goal of improved American education. 
   Mr. President, I urge the adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, for far too long, the health and welfare of America's children have been jeopardized by a relatively unregulated tobacco industry. 
   ``The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has amply demonstrated that tobacco use, particularly among children and adolescents, poses perhaps the single most serious threat to public health in the United States.'' 
   These words aren't mine. They are Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's, the author of the majority opinion in Food and Drug Administration v. Brown and Williamson--the recent case which prevents the FDA from effectively regulating tobacco. 
   We have worked hard to protect our children from the perils of tobacco, but we clearly have not done enough. 
   A study recently released by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) shows that over 18 percent of youth between the ages of 12 and 17 are smokers. 
   That translates into 4.1 million kids. And, every day, another 3,000 children join the ranks of their smoking peers. 
   Not only are these children exposing themselves to the long-term health risks that we know tobacco to pose, they are increasing the likeliness that they will develop other harmful addictions. 
   SAMHSA's study has revealed that children who smoke are over 11 times more likely to use illicit drugs and 16 times more likely to drink heavily than are their nonsmoking peers. Specifically, children who smoke are 100 times more likely to also smoke marijuana and 32 times more likely to use cocaine than nonsmoking children. 
   Today, of the 4.1 million children who currently smoke, approximately: 35% smoke marijuana; 8% take hallucinogenic drugs; 5% use cocaine; and 4% sniff inhalants. 
   The Supreme Court has placed the burden of protecting not only these children, but all children from tobacco squarely on the shoulders of the Congress. This is indeed a heavy weight to bear, but it is one from which we cannot afford to shy away. 
   We are here today to announce that we have accepted this charge, and are introducing legislation that will provide America's children with real protections from tobacco. 
   Currently, the FDA has the authority to regulate virtually all products which we consume or apply to our skin--food, drugs, cosmetics and medical devices--protecting Americans by ensuring that these products meet certain health standards. 
   Yet, today, FDA authority--and thus, FDA protection--does not apply to tobacco. 
   Congress can extend these protections by giving the FDA the authority to truly regulate tobacco products. 
   Our legislation would do just that. It would give the FDA authority to: (1) reduce harmful components--such as nicotine--in tobacco products; (2) impose appropriate advertising and marketing restrictions to reduce teenage tobacco use; (3) require manufacturers to submit information about the health effects of their product to the FDA; (4) require strong warning labels; and (5) regulate health claims and ``Reduced Risk'' products. 
   Mr. President, we are all in agreement that it is our responsibility to promote a healthier America. This legislation will help us achieve that collective goal, by giving the FDA the authority to regulate the tobacco industry. I urge my colleagues to support this important measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000404</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I thank Senator ROBB, for introducing this important amendment. 
   Today, we have before us the opportunity to achieve our collective goal of reforming the Medicare program. To do so, we must both realize and accept the fact that the face of health care has changed since the inception of Medicare in 1965. 
   In 1965, America's health system focused upon the inpatient setting, reacting to both acute and chronic conditions. In turn, Medicare followed this model. 
   Today, our health care system benefits from the advantage of new technologies, preventive measures and prescription drug therapies. Unfortunately, Medicare does not share these advantages, due to our inability to put reform first. 
   Mr. President, my colleagues have spoken eloquently about the need to include a prescription drug benefit in the Medicare package--certainly before we turn to tax cuts. This benefit would be an essential part of updating Medicare to adequately service the health care needs of today's seniors. 
   Currently, private health care plans cover medication because it is a vital component of modern health care. Prescription drugs are viewed as integral in the treatment and prevention of diseases. 
   Accordingly, we must find an approach to a Medicare prescription drug benefit that will best provide the most meaningful coverage for the most beneficiaries. And, I would argue that we take one step further and recognize that the development of a prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries is directly related to the need for preventive care. 
   As one of the primary guardians of the Medicare program, the Senate has the sobering responsibility to design a program that focuses on health promotion and disease prevention for all Medicare beneficiaries. This approach will slow the growth in costs to the program in the future, and, more importantly, will improve the quality of life for older Americans. 
   It has been proven time and time again, that a combination of preventive services and appropriate medication can reduce the incidence of stroke, diabetes, and heart disease among other serious and costly illnesses. 
   Detailed programmatic changes--changes based upon the realization that prescription drugs and preventive services go hand in hand--are necessary to convert the current Medicare system into one that will best serve our seniors. 
   Mr. President, I am not convinced that the tax cut that is incorporated into this budget resolution will achieve our goal of muchly needed reform. 
   Our seniors have been pleading with this Congress to create a drug benefit. And, maybe it is because I hail from a state where nearly one-fifth of the population is over age 65 . . . but I have not heard such impassioned pleas for tax cuts. 
   We are very fortunate to be living in an age of prosperity. But, I cannot sit idle while this Congress squanders our good fortune on the folly of tax cuts. 
   Instead, I implore you to take advantage of these good economic times and use the dollars that are available to us today to implement change that will benefit us tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to discuss an injustice to a group of Central American and Caribbean nationals who for many years have resided in the United States. As I speak, a clock is ticking. A deadline to gain legal status in the United States is one day away. How did we get to this point? 
   In 1997 and 1998, Congress passed legislation to protect Central American, Cuban and Haitian refugees from deportation. Action was needed because of the passage of the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act which changed immigration rules retroactively. Under the Presidency of Ronald Reagan, the United States offered protection and legal status to many Central American nationals who were fighting for Democracy in their home country, or fleeing the war that ensued. 
   Similarly, during the Presidency of George Bush, Haitian nationals were forced to flee after the overthrow of elected President Jean Bertrand Aristide. They were offered protection and legal status in the United States. 
   By 1996, these Central American and Haitian nationals had been living in our nation for years, in the cases of Central Americans, often longer than a decade. They established businesses, had families, bought homes, and strengthened their communities. 
   Then, in 1996, with the passage of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, these Central American and Haitian Individuals and families were made retroactively deportable. These deportations would have occurred years and years after these nationals had established full lives in the United States. 
   Congress protected their legal status here by passing the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act in November of 1997 and the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act in October of 1998 by making certain sections of the 1996 immigration law non-retroactive. 
   Since 1997, we have waited for final regulations to guide applicants through the process of applying for relief under NACARA. Since 1998, we have waited for final regulations to assist Haitian nationals with this process. And now, seven days before the application deadline, final regulations are issued. This is not an example of ``good government.'' 
   Under legislation I introduced in February, the new deadline for relief will be one year after the date the regulations became final. This new deadline, March 23, 2001, reflects the added time needed by the INS to develop regulation. This will not cover any additional individuals who will then have rights to live in the United States. It just creates a more realistic, and fair deadline for individuals Congress has already passed legislation to protect. 
   We are now one day away from the deadline coming and going, and the Senate has yet to take action on this legislation. The Senate Judiciary Committee will not be able to meet this week to approve this legislation. We cannot purport to offer our constituents good and fair government if we let this deadline come and go without the simple action of extending the deadline by one year. When I spoke on the Senate Floor earlier this year, I tried to put a human story with this legislation. It's her story, and others, that should spur us to action on this legislation. 
   Immigration attorneys in Florida are trying to help a young woman I will call ``Francis.'' She is 22 years old this year. Her parents fled Haiti in the 1980's when she was very young. Her family settled in Florida and she now has 3 U.S. citizen brothers and sisters. 
   Then tragedy struck her family. Her father died when she was seven. Her mother died when she was in her early teens. She finished high school and is raising her younger brothers and sisters while working. She is an orphan, protected by our 1998 legislation. 
   She is trying to pull the documents together to apply to stay in the United States, and not be separated from her U.S. citizen brothers and sisters--the only family she has left. The 1-year extension and the ability to apply for relief under final regulations will make a huge difference in the life of this young woman. 
   I ask for the Senate's quick action on this timely and important matter. Many in the Senate worked diligently to protect Cuban, Haitian and Nicaraguan nationals in the original legislation. Let's not put these families at risk by our failure to act now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000329</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Commercial Space Partnership Act--legislation to encourage the commercial development of space through the long term lease of real and personal property held by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). 
   The Cox Commission Report identified the need to expand domestic launch capacity to meet the rapidly growing demand for commercial U.S. launch services. It is vital that we increase our domestic launch capacity, reduce our dependence on foreign launch providers and help eliminate the transfer of critical U.S. technology. The Cox Report specifically recommended that congressional committees ``report legislation to encourage and stimulate further the expansion of such capacity of competition.'' 
   Mr. President, the Commercial Space Partnership Act is the third piece of legislation I have introduced with the goal of increasing our domestic launch capacity. The first was the Commercial Space Act, which became law in 1998. The Act helped break the federal government's monopoly on space travel by establishing a licensing framework for the private sector's reusable launch vehicles. It also provided for the conversion of excess ballistic missiles into space transportation vehicles, thus helping to reduce our nation's cost of access to space. 
   Last year, along with a similar bipartisan coalition, I introduced the Spaceport Investment Act. This bill would allow spaceports to issue tax-free bonds to attract private sector investment dollars for launch infrastructure. It achieves the dual purpose of reducing pressure on the federal budget while stimulating this crucial industry. 
   Mr. President, the third leg of this effort is the Commercial Space Partnership Act. Presently, NASA holds real and personal property that would be invaluable in developing new domestic launch resources. At the same time, however, NASA has no appropriations with which to cover the costs that result from integrating new commercial launch facilities into its existing infrastructure. The Commercial Space Partnership Act is designed to resolve this problem by allowing public and private interests with development money to lease property from NASA for the purpose of expanding commercial launch capacity, and by permitting NASA to make use of some of the lease proceeds to cover the resulting costs it incurs. 
   The Commercial Space Partnership Act will empower NASA to assist the commercial space industry in expanding the domestic launch capacity at no cost to the taxpayer. Under this new lease authority, NASA will receive fair market value for its property and will further be empowered to apply the lease proceeds to cover the full costs resulting from the integration of the new commercial launch facilities into NASA's existing infrastructure. The Act further provides that any lease proceeds in excess of NASA's full costs shall be forwarded to the U.S. Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. 
   The fair market value approach also ensures that NASA property will be leased to industry at a price which is comparable to other similar commercial properties. NASA's property will thereby be leased in a fair and equitable manner that will give in an unfair advantage to those with preexisting launch facilities in commercial locations. 
   Mr. President, the Commercial Space Partnership Act can only encourage and stimulate the domestic launch capacity of our country. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join us in this important effort by co-sponsoring this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, members of the Senate, I am proud to offer my support for the legislation. As many before me have said, this bill is the product of extended debate and compromise on all sides of this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, in 1991, I spent one of my monthly workdays at a Winn-Dixie grocery store in Santa Rosa County, FL. I worked as a bagger standing at the end of the checkout line putting the groceries of the customers of that store into a paper or plastic bag they had selected and then taking it out to their car. 
   The man I worked with throughout that day was Jim Young. Jim has a history that is typical of many retired Americans. He had worked both in a military and a civilian capacity. He had looked forward to his retirement time in a place of paradise and came to a place where he thought he could find paradise. Unfortunately, Jim had a few difficulties that had the effect of necessitating he seek employment in order to supplement his retirement income. It was then that he encountered the restrictions on earnings after retirement and the impact that this was about to have on his Social Security. Jim, therefore, had to go through an elaborate process of adjusting his work schedule so as to minimize the adverse effect of the earnings limit on his total income and to be able to fashion his way through what he found to be an inexplicable restriction on his capacity to work, make a contribution, and supplement his income. 
   It was that experience with Jim as much as anything that caused me to be interested in the issues before us today. I am pleased to have played a role in the 1996 action which was described by our colleague from Kentucky, which substantially raised the cap on earnings to its current $17,000 and gave significant relief to people such as Jim Young. 
   Today, we are finishing the job. With the passage of this legislation, we will eliminate any earnings restraint on Social Security retirement income. We will no longer be shackled by a 1930s concept that we have to discourage older workers from continuing their productive lives in order to open up positions for younger workers. If there ever was a time in our Nation's history where that concept has been rendered an anachronism, it is at the beginning of the 21st century. We need the productive talent of Americans such as Jim Young. We need to encourage people to think they will be able to extend their period of working and contributing to our Nation's economy as long as it is in their interest to do so, and not by applying arbitrary restraints to their earnings in the form of a penalty against their Social Security income. 
   I will be very pleased tomorrow when we vote on what I anticipate will be an overwhelming majority in favor of eliminating this 1930s dinosaur which still occupies too big a space in the living room of Social Security. 
   I wish to use this opportunity to talk about another dinosaur that is occupying too much space. That is the dinosaur of an excessive focus on Social Security as we think about the retirement lives of older Americans. In fact, Social Security is becoming a declining portion of the total revenue of retired Americans, and will continue to decline as a portion of their income for the foreseeable future. 
   Retirement in America is today based on a three-legged stool. Those three legs are employer-sponsored retirement plans, individual savings, and Social Security. 
   I believe, rather than talking about the issue of Social Security reform, what we should be talking about is the issue of retirement security reform so we can focus on all of the 
   relevant components of the retirement package upon which most Americans rely. We need to add a fourth component to this discussion; that is, a much more intense effort at encouraging Americans to plan for their retirement. 
   It has been said--and not only in jest--that most Americans spend more time planning a 2-week summer vacation than they do the 15, or 25, or more years they will live in retirement. That may have been a practice that was acceptable when retirement was not as complex as it is today, when retirement did not involve as much self-responsibility as it does today, when retirement did not include as many facets, from long-term care to providing for your physical health and well-being. 
   I believe these four components--employer-sponsored retirement plan reform, encouragement of individual savings, strengthening Social Security, and the promotion of preretirement planning--are the basis of an American national effort at enhanced retirement security. The goal of that enhanced retirement security should be to place all Americans in a position to be able to, with reasonable assurance, anticipate that they will have in retirement a significant percentage of their preretirement income. Many have suggested that the appropriate goal would be 75 percent of preretirement income as the reasonable attainable goal of America. 
   What do we need to do in order to reach a 75-percent goal? Soon I will be introducing legislation that will encompass the subjects of employer-sponsored retirement plans, individual savings, strengthening Social Security, and the promotion of preretirement plans. 
   This afternoon, in the context of the elimination of one old attitude from our Social Security system; that is, the necessity to cap the earnings of retirees, I will lay out a few comments about the elimination of another old attitude, that the only thing we need to focus on is Social Security reform. We need to focus on employer-sponsored retirement plans, particularly as they relate to small businesses. 
   In my State, in the last 5-plus years, we have added well over 1 million new jobs. Most of those new jobs have come from businesses that employ less than 25 people. In fact, over 70 percent of the new jobs in America are from small businesses with less than 25 employees. It is exactly those small businesses that are the least likely to have an employer-sponsored retirement plan. 
   I believe--and so does Senator GRASSLEY of Iowa, with whom I have worked closely on these matters--that the principal focus of our attention needs to be to encourage small businesses to provide pension benefits for their employees. We introduced legislation to this end. That legislation, styled as S. 741, contains the following components: 
   It expands coverage by providing incentives for small businesses to begin offering pension coverage. 
   As an example, it will assist small businesses in paying some of the startup costs in the establishment of a pension plan. 
   It increases portability, making it easier for employees to move retirement money from one plan to another as they change jobs. We know today the average American will work at seven jobs during the course of their working lifetime. They need to be able to carry their pension benefits from one job to the next. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today, along with my colleagues, Senator JEFFORDS, Senator BINGAMAN, Senator CHAFEE, Senator BRYAN, Senator ROCKEFELLER, Senator KERRY, Senator MURRAY, Senator MOYNIHAN, Senator LUGAR, and Senator SNOWE, I introduce the Medicare Wellness Act of 2000. 
   The Medicare Wellness Act represents a concerted effort by myself and my distinguished colleagues to change the fundamental focus of the Medicare program. 
   it changes the program from one that simply treats illness and disability, to one that is also proactive. 
   Enhancing the focus on health promotion and disease prevention for Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Mr. President, despite common misperceptions, declines in health status are not inevitable with age. A healthier lifestyle, even one adopted later in life, can increase active life expectancy and decrease disability. 
   This fact is a major reason why The Medicare Wellness Act has support from a broad range of groups, including the National Council on Aging, Partnership for Prevention, American Heart Association, and the National Osteoporosis Foundation. 
   The most significant aspect of this bill is its addition of several new preventative screening and counseling benefits to the Medicare program. 
   The benefits being added focus on some of the most prominent, underlying risk factors for illness that face all Medicare beneficiaries, including: screening for hypertension, counseling for tobacco cessation, screening for glaucoma, counseling for hormone replacement therapy, screening for vision and hearing loss, nutrition therapy, expanding screening and counseling for osteoporosis, and screening for cholesterol. 
   The new benefits added by The Medicare Wellness Act represent the highest recommendations for Medicare beneficiaries of the Institute of Medicine and the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force--recognized as the gold standard within the prevention community. 
   Attaching these prominent risk factors will reduce Medicare beneficiaries' risk for health problems such as stroke, diabetes, and osteoporosis, heart disease, and blindness. 
   The addition of these new benefits would accelerate the fundamental shift, that began in 1997 under the Balanced Budget Act, in the Medicare program from a sickness program to a wellness program. 
   Prior to 1997, only three preventive benefits were available to beneficiaries, pneumococcal vaccines, pap smears, and mammography. Other major components of our bill include the establishment of the Healthy Seniors Promoting Program. 
   This program will be led by an interagency workgroup within the Department of Health and Human Services. 
   It will being together all the agencies within HHS that address the medical, social and behavioral issues affecting the elderly and instructs them to undertake a series of studies which will increase knowledge about the utilization of prevention services among the elderly. 
   In addition, The Medicare Wellness Act incorporates an aggressive applied and original research effort that will investigate ways to improve the utilization of current and new preventive benefits and to investigate new methods of improving the health of Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Mr. President, this latter point is critical. The fact is that there are a number of prevention-related services available to 
   Medicare beneficiaries today, including mammograms and colorectal cancer screening. But those services are seriously underutilized. 
   In a study published by Dartmouth University this spring (The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care 1999), it was found that only 28 percent of women age 65-69 receive mammograms and only 12 percent of the beneficiaries were screened for colorectal cancer. 
   These are disturbing figures and they clearly demonstrate the need to find new and better ways to increase the rates of utilization of proven, demonstrated prevention services. 
   Our bill would get us the information we need to increase rates of utilization for these services. Further, our bill would establish a health risk appraisal and education program aimed at major behavioral risk factors such as diet, exercise, alcohol and tobacco use, and depression. 
   This program will target both pre-65 individuals and current Medicare beneficiaries. The main goal of this program is to increase awareness among individuals of major risk factors that impact on health, to change personal health habits, improve health status, and save the Medicare program money. Our bill would require the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, known as MedPAC, to report to Congress every two years and assess how the program needs to change over time in order to reflect modern benefits and treatment. 
   Shockingly, this is information that Congress currently does not receive on a routine basis. And this is a contributing factor to why we find ourselves today in a quandary over the outdated nature of the Medicare program. Quite frankly, Medicare hasn't kept up with the rest of the health care world. While a vintage wine from the 1960s may be desirable, a health care system that is vintage 1965 is not. We need to do better. 
   Our bill would also require the Institute of Medicine (IOM) to conduct a study 
   every five years to assess the scientific validity of the entire preventive benefits package. The study will be presented to Congress in a manner that mirrors The Trade Act of 1974. The IOM's recommendations would be presented to Congress in legislative form. Congress would then have 60 days to review and then either accept or reject the IOM's recommendations for changes to the Medicare program. But Congress could not change the IOM's recommendations. 
   This ``fast-track'' process is a deliberate effort to get Congress out of the business of micro-managing the Medicare program. While limited to preventive benefits, this will offer a litmus test on a new approach to future Medicare decision making. 
   In the aggregate, The Medicare Wellness Act represents the most comprehensive legislative proposal in the 106th Congress for the Medicare program focused on health promotion and disease prevention for beneficiaries. It provides new screening and counseling benefits for beneficiaries, it provides critically needed research dollars, and it tests new treatment concepts through demonstration programs. 
   The Medicare Wellness Act represents sound health policy based on sound science. 
   Before I conclude, I have a few final thoughts. 
   There are many here in Congress who argue that at a time when Medicare faces an uncertain financial future, this is the last time to be adding new benefits to a program that can ill afford the benefits it currently offers. Normally I would agree with this assertion. But the issue of prevention is different. The old adage of ``an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure'' is very relevant here. Does making preventive benefits available to Medicare beneficiaries ``cost'' money? 
   Sure it does. 
   But the return on the investment, the avoidance of the pound of cure and  the related improvement in quality of life is unmistakable. 
   Along these lines, a longstanding problem facing lawmakers and advocates of prevention has been the position taken by the Congressional Budget Office, as it evaluates the budgetary impact of all legislative proposals. 
   Only costs incurred by the Federal Government over the next 10 years can be considered in weighing the ``cost'' of adding new benefits. From a public health and quality of life standpoint, this premise is unacceptable. 
   Among the problems with this practice is that ``savings'' incurred by increasing the availability and utilization of preventive benefits often occur over a period of time greater than 10 years. 
   This problem is best illustrated in an examination of the ``compression of morbidity'' theory developed by Dr. James Fries of Stanford University over 20 years ago. 
   According to Dr. Fries, by delaying the onset of chronic illness among seniors, there is a resulting decrease in the length of time illness or disability is present in the latter stages of life. This ``compression'' improves quality of life and reduces the rate of growth in health care costs. 
   But, these changes are gradual and occur over an extended period of time--10, 20, even 30 years. 
   With the average life expectancy of individuals who reach 65 being nearly 20 years--20 years for women and 18 years for men--it only makes sense to look at services and benefits that improve quality of life and reduce costs to the Federal Government for that 20 year lifespan. 
   In addition to increased lifespan, a 10 year budget scoring window doesn't factor into consideration the impact of such services on the private sector, such as increased productivity and reduced absenteeism, for the many seniors that continue working beyond age 65. 
   The bottom line is, the most important reason to cover preventive services is to improve health. 
   While prevention services in isolation won't reduce costs, they will moderate increases in the utilization and spending on more expensive acute and chronic treatment services. 
   As Congress considers different ways to reform Medicare, two basic questions regarding preventive services and the elderly must be part of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I could not agree more with the comments that were made by the distinguished chairman of the Finance Committee relative to the importance of America investing in its future, and education is one of the most fundamental ways in which we are able to shape our future, by assuring that our young people are fully prepared to meet the challenges of this exciting new century. 
   It was for that reason that I supported this legislation when it was reported with a bipartisan vote from the Senate Finance Committee. I also supported it because it recognized another aspect of our responsibility to the future, and that is to act in a fiscally prudent manner, particularly at this rare moment of opportunity we have before us today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the issue is not whether we believe investment in education is an important part of America's future; we all agree with that. It is not even whether we believe there should be some tax reductions to encourage people to invest in their children's education as well as other desirable goals. Most of us believe in that. I certainly do. The question is, How do we have a rational process of deciding how we are going to use the opportunities that are presented to us here today? 
   It is interesting to me that as we start the third full century of America's national history we might reflect back on what happened at the beginning of the 19th century and the 20th century--the two other full centuries of this Nation's existence. In both of those periods, there seemed to be an energy that came from a new century and the new beginnings that it represented--an energy that was channeled into areas that have had a lasting, positive impact on our Nation. 
   In the beginning of the 19th century, the President of the United States was one of the gentlemen whose bust appears above our Presiding Officer--Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson had the vision to see that America's future was not in being a scattering of States along the Atlantic but, rather, as a continental empire. And at a time  when our country was small and struggling, and in some areas of Europe derided as a false dream of a democracy, Thomas Jefferson had the boldness to commit us to purchase from France the Louisiana Territory and fundamentally reshaped America and created the possibility of the great Nation we are today. That was the vision Thomas Jefferson and his colleagues had for America at the beginning of the 19th century. 
   In the beginning of the 20th century, another man whose bust is close to this Chamber, Theodore Roosevelt, was our President. He had a vision of an America that would begin to achieve its international goals. The Panama Canal was a statement not only of America's great technological capacity but also America's understanding of its role in the world. Theodore Roosevelt also understood the importance of investing in this country. During his Presidency, we added to our national land trust an amount of land that would be the equivalent of every acre from the State of Maine to my State of Florida along the Atlantic coast of America. Those were bold visions of the generation of Thomas Jefferson and the generation of Theodore Roosevelt. 
   We have the opportunity now, both because of the start of a new century and a new millennium and because we have paid the price to get our national financial house in order, to begin to think boldly of what we want to have history write about what America did at the beginning of the 21st century. The concern I express today is that we are dissipating that opportunity through a series of incremental, uncoordinated, nonprioritized decisions that are going to have the effect of continuing to dissipate the resources that could be used to do something as bold as purchasing Louisiana or building the Panama Canal. 
   The chairman of the Finance Committee said that the Budget Committee has indicated we will have a budget surplus over the next 10 years from non-Social Security funds of almost $2 trillion. Well, I say, let's wait until we pass a budget resolution that indicates that is going to be the amount of our 
   budget surplus. As you will recall, we made a commitment in 1997 that we were going to exercise budget discipline and abide by budget caps. Those decisions would have caused us, last year, to have had a discretionary spending account of approximately $575 billion. In fact, we ended up spending over $620 billion. We crushed and we pulverized the budget ceilings that were supposed to be the hallmark of fiscal discipline. 
   I want to be sure that we are going to declare that our 1999 actions were an aberration rather than the path of future lack of fiscal discipline before I conclude that we are going to have a nonbudget surplus of $1.9 trillion. We are being asked to take a leap of faith that runs directly counter to what we did a matter of a few weeks ago when we passed that bloated final appropriations bill--that that was a mistake, and that we asked for the repentance of the American people, and we are going to go back to the fiscal discipline that would be required to have a $1.9 trillion non-Social Security surplus, which is the discipline of returning to those 1997 budget caps. I want to see us make that commitment and live up to that commitment before we start spending the money. Let's eat our spinach before we start having our ice cream party. 
   Second, in addition to not having set a budget resolution, which is the architecture of our fiscal policy, we haven't even had a serious debate on what our strategic priorities should be at the beginning of this century, that capability which fiscal discipline would give us. We haven't decided what we are going to do about the fact that, whereas today there are approximately 40 million Americans on Social Security and Medicare, at the end of the next generation we are going to have 80 million Americans looking to Social Security and Medicare--looking to the solemn contract that exists between the Government of the United States of America and the people of the United States of America to provide them financial and medical security in retirement. I think we ought to be figuring out how we are going to meet that solemn obligation before we do any of these other items--as attractive, desirable, and important as we might think they are. I believe those are our first two priorities. 
   I am seriously concerned that the course we are on, which is following exactly what we did in 1999, is going to lead us to a dissipation of our capacity to set rational priorities, 
   that we will become the first political leadership of America at the beginning of a new century, and instead of being the giants of Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt, we will be the Pygmies in the toy store trying to fulfill our immediate desires and needs without focusing on what is in the best interests of America in this 21st century. 
   This vote today is not a giant vote of fiscal policy. I said in my concluding remarks that this does not even purport to fund the bill that is before us, in large part because the bill before us has been growing almost hourly since it has been on the floor. This amendment the Senator from Delaware offered would be the most gargantuan growth of this bill we have experienced since it has been on the floor, an addition of approximately $10 billion over 10 years. 
   I do not purport that this amendment will fund fully this bill. I say this amendment is a critical statement of whether we are serious about fiscal discipline, whether we are serious about setting a plan for the fiscal future of this Nation--at least a plan for the next fiscal year before we start spending our non-Social Security surplus--and whether we are serious about setting some longer range priorities to meet these very significant legal and moral obligations the American Government has to the American people. That is what this vote is about. 
   Are we willing to take the very minor step of saying that we are willing to strip out of this bill five relatively small tax changes, all of which have been passed by this Senate, in most cases on multiple occasions, and ask our grandchildren to pay out of the non-Social Security surplus they will be contributing to over the next 10 years, or are we going to step up and say this is the time we will make a statement, a commitment, a pledge for fiscal discipline? 
   It is my strongest wish we in the Senate do not see this as some kind of a partisan divide. We were able to contain the deficits and get to the point that we are because we worked together as Americans, not as members of any particular party or representatives of any region or interest of this country. It is in America's interest that we exercise this fiscal discipline. 
   Today is the day we can make an important statement that we are prepared to do so. I urge us not to let this opportunity pass. 
   Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask that the yeas and nays be ordered on the second-degree amendment, No. 2870. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will be offering an amendment which is entitled Transition to Teaching. This amendment came to my attention as a result of a series of personal experiences. 
   One set of those experiences related to the military and specifically the U.S. Navy in Pensacola. Several years ago, facing the downsizing of the military and aware that there were going to be a lot of people with talents, particularly in areas such as science and mathematics, who would be looking for a second career, the U.S. Navy in Pensacola, the State university in Pensacola, and the University of West Florida formed a partnership. That partnership was to provide training for naval personnel who were within a few months or years of their retirement date so that when they did reach retirement, they would be prepared to go into the classrooms of America with full certification and commence a second career educating the next generation of young Americans. 
   This has been a very successful program. It has assisted scores of schools in my State and many more across the country. This program has been generally referred to as the Troops to Teachers Program. 
   Last August, I did one of my monthly workdays at North Marion High School north of Ocala, FL. There I met a man by the name of Bill Aradine. Bill teaches automobile mechanics at North Marion. North Marion, as do many schools in America, every year faces a major challenge in how to recruit enough young new teachers to fill the ranks. 
   We are facing, in the next decade, something on the order of 2 million American teachers who are going to retire. These are teachers who largely came to the classroom in the 1950s and 1960s, are now reaching their retirement period, and are going to create tremendous demands for new teachers to fill those ranks. Bill Aradine filled one of those positions at North Marion High School. 
   What is peculiar about Bill is not just the fact that he is considered to be an outstanding teacher who motivates his students and has prepared students for very good paying jobs upon their graduation from his automobile mechanics program, 
   but what is most peculiar about Bill is the fact that he is a man who already had a career. The career was that, at first, he was an automobile mechanic and then the lead mechanic of one of the large automobile dealerships in Marion County, FL. So when he came to the classroom, he was a fully mature adult with a lot of experience in the area he was going to teach, credibility with the students, and the ability to be beyond a teacher, a mentor, a counselor, and the bridge from the classroom to employment for his students. 
   Now, Bill made that transition to the classroom out of his own grit, his interest in being able to share with young Floridians what he had learned in a lifetime of automobile mechanics. But Bill, unfortunately, is a rarer commodity than he should be. We ought to be encouraging more people at midcareer to consider the classroom as their second career. We ought to be facilitating their ability, as the Navy and the University of West Florida did, to get certified so they can move  seemlessly into the classroom. We ought to recognize the fact that a student at 40 is different than a student at 18, in terms of their class schedule and their other responsibilities, both family and economic; and we ought to try to make it easier for those Americans to be able to pursue their desire at a second career in the classroom. 
   That is what the transition to teaching legislation intends to do. It focuses on two of the principal inhibitors to persons pursuing a second career in education. The first of those occurs at the universities. The universities are very well prepared to train people who are right out of high school, who don't have many family or economic responsibilities, and who, at the age of 22 or 23, will go into the classroom. They are not so well prepared to deal with the student who is in their forties, who has all these responsibilities and has to have a greater degree of flexibility in their schedule. As the University of West Florida found, they had to redo their curriculum in order to be able to respond to the needs of the Navy personnel. I suggest the same thing is going to be required if we are going to move the Bill Aradines from a rare exception to a significant stream of persons coming into the classroom as a second career. So the first part of our transition to teaching is focused on the universities to provide them some stimulation and resources to commence the process of restructuring their curriculum so they can be responsive to the needs of the middle-age second career student. Second is to provide stipends to these students while they are undergoing this process of change, recognizing that they have other responsibilities, typically, in terms of supporting their families and the other obligations that an adult would typically have. 
   So those are the two targets of this legislation in order to facilitate more Americans being able to consider a second career in education and to be able to contribute to that 2 million new teachers that America is going to need in the next 10 years in order to meet the tremendous demands that will be caused by the impending retirements of many hundreds of thousands of current teachers. 
   I will offer, for purposes of consideration as an amendment to the legislation that is pending before us, an amendment on which I have been joined by Senators BINGAMAN and ROBB, entitled ``Transition to Teaching.'' I will urge its consideration and vote at the scheduled time of 2 o'clock. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I now send my amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, when I introduced Transition to Teaching in October last year, I talked about my workday with Bill Aradine. 
   He teaches 150 students, from 9th to 12th grade at North Marion High School near Ocala, FL. 
   He teaches auto mechanics, and has sparked an interest in students that may lead to rewarding, lucrative, and challenging careers for them. 
   But Mr. Aradine brings something else to his first year in North Marion High School--eleven years of on-the-job experience. 
   He has years of experience in a local Chevrolet car dealership, and he is starting a second career in teaching. 
   The students look at him with a different perspective: When he says that ``you will need to know this to succeed'' they know that he knows. 
   Having just come from the automotive industry, he teaches at the cutting edge. 
   The information that he brings to his students is what he was actually doing in the workplace not that long ago. 
   Mr. Aradine is also a bridge between North Marion High students and the world of employment. 
   He offers them advice, counsel, and real-life connections to future jobs. 
   As Bill Aradine made the mid-career transition into the teaching profession, students gained a valuable instructor and mentor, and North Marion High School was able to fill a vacancy and ease its teacher shortage. 
   Every August and September--another school year begins for thousands of young Americans. 
   Almost every year at this time, I hear from school districts in Florida about teacher shortages: 
   Miami-Dade hired 1,700 new teachers for the 1999 school year, and still had 300 vacancies to fill on the first day of classes. 
   Hillsborough County hired 1,493 teachers for the start of the school year and were still 238 teachers short when the first class bell rang. 
   Orange County needed 1,300 teachers for the new year, and still had 50 vacancies several months after school started. 
   These concerns will only get worse: 40 percent of current schoolteachers are over age 50, on the verge of retirement. 
   Who will be the future role models to the next generation of Americans? 
   The importance of having high-quality teachers, and in sufficient numbers is crucial when we look at the challenges facing education in the future. 
   The American family structure will change in two key ways: Half of all children will spend some of their childhood in single-parent homes, and are more likely to live in poverty. And, of the children who grow up in a nuclear family, very often both parents will work, thus are less able to be involved in a child's school and schoolwork. 
   Second, societal expectations for students upon graduation will be greater. 
   In the middle of this century, 20 percent of the jobs needed skilled workers. 
   At the end of this century, 80 percent of jobs will need skilled workers. 
   Thus, the American student will need to graduate from school better prepared for the hi-tech world than ever before, but single parent families and dual-income families, in general, will face more challenges in being actively involved in their child's education. 
   These challenges, and others, will face the American educational system. 
   I rise today to take one step forward in easing the nationwide teacher shortage, and offering challenging new opportunities for America's professionals by introducing the Transition to Teaching Act of 1999. 
   Representatives JIM DAVIS of Florida and TIM ROEMER of Indiana have taken the lead in the House of Representatives on this issue. 
   We have a very successful model on which to build the Transition to Teaching program. 
   Since 1994, the ``Troops to Teachers'' program has brought more than 3,000 retired military personnel to our classrooms as math, science, and technology teachers. 
   Florida schools have the benefit of more than 270 individuals who have successfully completed the Troops to Teachers program, and are bringing their life-experience to the classroom today. 
   Troops to Teachers, and now Transition to Teaching, overcome two of the main obstacles that mid-career professionals face when becoming a teacher. 
   It streamlines the teaching certification process. 
   It provides money to mid-career professionals to become certified. 
   It's not impossible to do this now, as Mr. Aradine has shown, but this legislation will assist with and simplify the process. 
   The first issue that is addressed involves teaching colleges within universities. 
   They are often set up for traditional students, in their early-20's, just starting out in their professional lives. 
   These programs are generally taken over a multi-year period as a full-time college student. 
   This legislation encourages teaching colleges to develop curriculum suitable for an individual who has many years of work experience. 
   These programs are more streamlined, more flexible in school hours, and recognize that the professional brings more life and work experience than a traditional college student. 
   By developing such programs, colleges can maintain high standards, but allow a mid-career professional, making the change into teaching to become certified in a more efficient, streamlined manner. 
   Teaching colleges are also asked to develop programs to maintain contact with and support for these new teachers during at least their first year in the classroom. 
   Second, Transition to Teaching will assist teachers who come to the profession in mid-career in a very tangible way. 
   Grants will be awarded, up to $5,000 per participant, to offset the costs of becoming a certified teacher. 
   In return, the teacher agrees to teach in low-income schools for three years, as determined by the percentage of Title One students in the school population. 
   Thus, two of the biggest obstacles to becoming a teacher in mid-career are alleviated by this legislation: 
   First, the certification process is streamlined, and second, stipends are provided to offset the cost of this additional education. 
   By expanding the ``Troops to Teachers'' program into ``Transition to Teaching,'' law enforcement, attorneys, business leaders, scientists, entrepreneurs, and others in the private sector, should be encouraged to share their wisdom with students. 
   This amendment is timely. We are on the cusp of the retirement of millions of baby boomers. 
   By encouraging recent retirees, or mid-career professionals, to become certified through Transition to Teaching and spend a few years in the classroom, we will bring the life skills of experienced professionals to our youngest citizens. 
   I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   Our nation's children deserve our best efforts to provide them with a world class education. 
   Let me just add an economic component to this amendment. This amendment would be in the nature of an authorization. The President has in his budget an item of $25 million, which would be the basis of supporting this program, as well as the current Troops to Teachers Program. 
   It is estimated that approximately half of the persons who would be trained with that $25 million appropriation that has been recommended by the President would be military personnel and the other half would be civilian. As we begin to stabilize the reduction of the military, the proportion of those persons who would be trained for a second career in the classroom would probably begin to shift with a larger number being from the civilian sector. It is estimated that the cost per student for this program will be approximately $3,500 to $4,000 a year for their training, with the average person  taking between 1 and 2 years to be trained to the point they are certified to go into the classroom. 
   I believe this is a very reasonable and prudent investment for America to make in Americans who have demonstrated their accomplishments in a first career and are now ready to share their experiences with American youth in a second career in the classroom. This will help to facilitate that transition to teaching for the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator LINCOLN and Senator FEINSTEIN be added as cosponsors. I have no further comments to make on behalf of this amendment. I believe both sides have agreed to accept it. I ask for a voice vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote, and I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as I understand it, the sequence of amendments is such that there will be a Republican amendment after the amendment by Senator DODD, and then there will be a Democratic amendment by Senator ROBB, and then another Republican amendment. 
   I ask unanimous consent that I might offer the transition teaching amendment immediately after the Republican amendment, which will follow Senator ROBB's amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I could offer this amendment with the understanding that if there is someone who needs to go ahead of me I would yield at that time. I was on the floor this morning and now this afternoon for purposes of trying to get in the queue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I don't have any remarks to make on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that upon the completion of the two votes which are currently scheduled to commence at 2 p.m. I be granted 20 minutes as in morning business for the purpose of a bill introduction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor this afternoon to introduce legislation which has as its objective to assure a greater measure of fairness to a particularly vulnerable group of Central American and Caribbean nationals who, in many cases, for many years have resided in the United States. 
   I appreciate the support of my colleagues: Senators MACK, KENNEDY, DURBIN, and FEINSTEIN, who join in this effort as cosponsors. 
   For some background: In 1997, and again in 1998, Congress passed legislation to protect, first, a group of Central American and Cuban nationals and then a similar group of Haitian nationals who were refugees and were threatened with deportation. 
   Action was needed in those 2 years because of passage of the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, which changed immigration rules and did so, in many instances, retroactively. The history of this group of people started during the Presidency of Ronald Reagan. The United States offered protection and legal status to many Central American nationals who were fighting for democracy in their home country or fleeing the war that had ensued. Similarly, during the Presidency of George Bush, Haitian nationals were forced to flee after the overthrow of the elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in  1994. They were offered protection and legal status in the United States. 
   In 1996, these Central American and Haitian nationals had been living in our country for years; in the cases of the Central Americans, often longer than a decade. They established businesses. They formed and raised families. They bought homes. They strengthened the communities in which they lived. Then in 1996, with the passage of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, these Central American and Haitian individuals and families were made retroactively deportable. These deportations would have occurred years and years after these nationals had established their lives in the United States. 
   Congress moved quickly to protect their legal status here by passing the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act in November of 1997, and then the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act in October of 1998. These two bills made certain sections of the 1996 immigration law nonretroactive. We mandated in those two pieces of legislation 
   that to apply for relief from deportation under this measure, applications had to be made by a date certain: March 31, 2000. 
   The sad fact is, in 3 years after one of these pieces of legislation was passed and more than 2 years after another, we are still waiting for the final regulations to be issued for both of these pieces of legislation. The final rules that would help families apply for relief have not yet been issued. Interim regulations were issued for both bills in 1998 and 1999, but in neither case have the regulations become final. There is the very real possibility that the application deadline, March 31, 2000, could come and go before the final regulations, which establish the rules and procedures by which applications will be submitted and evaluated, have even been issued. 
   Both for reasons of fairness and to promote good Government, we should extend the application deadline for relief. Under this legislation, the new deadline for relief will be 1 year after the date the regulations become final. 
   I point out to my colleagues that this legislation will not cover any additional individuals who will have the right to apply for the right to live in the United States. No additional persons will be granted eligibility as a result of this legislation beyond those who were made eligible in 1997 and again in 1998. What this legislation does is create a more realistic and fair deadline for individuals Congress has already passed legislation to protect. 
   This action should be taken because it is fair. First, it is fair to the immigrants. We shouldn't expect them to go through the arduous and very costly application process without the certainty that the regulations which will govern their applications are final. 
   It is easy to put a human face on this issue. There are scores, hundreds, thousands of examples. Let me just cite one which was brought to my attention by a prominent immigration attorney in Florida. I will call this young woman, in order to protect her privacy, Frances. She is a real human being. Frances is 22 years old. Her parents fled Haiti in the 1980s, when she was a child. Her family settled in Florida. She now has three U.S. citizen brothers and sisters. Tragedy has struck her family on several occasions. Her father died when she was just 7 years old. Her mother died when she was still in her early teens. She finished high school and is now raising her younger brothers and sisters while working. She is an orphan. She would be in the class of persons protected by the 1998 legislation. She is trying now to put together the documents necessary to apply to stay in the United States and not be separated from her U.S. citizen brothers and sisters, the only family she has left. 
   The 1-year extension and the ability to apply for relief once regulations are final will make a huge difference in the life of this woman, will make a huge difference in her ability to comply with procedures which are probably the most significant in her life. 
   Today, I am introducing this in an effort to secure as rapid a resolution of these concerns as possible. I am not unmindful of the magnitude of the task Congress has asked the Immigration and Naturalization Service to perform. I don't want to imply that the INS and other Federal agencies should rush through these technical pieces of legislation. However, in situations such as this, where a longer time than expected was needed to develop the regulations, it is only fair to allow a 
   longer time for those who are going to be affected by the law. 
   I understand the INS has been very thorough and understanding. It has met with individual groups on all sides of this issue. Many of them have been my constituents in Florida. I commend the INS for its willingness to hear all points of view and be thorough in their review before issuing final regulations. However, having said that, I believe nearly 3 years is a reasonable amount of time to have finalized these regulations. 
   The Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act took only nine pages of text in Public Law 105-100 when it was passed. Similarly, the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act took less than two pages to print in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. These were concise, targeted pieces of legislation. They were not lengthy, complex overhauls of major components of the immigration law. It is plain unfair to give someone a deadline and charge them a substantial fee to file and then to be uncertain as to what the rules will be that will govern those applications. With this legislation, I seek the flexibility to allow more time to apply for relief in a situation where more time than expected was necessary by the agency, the INS, to issue the regulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send the legislation to the desk, which has been cosponsored by Senators MACK, KENNEDY, DURBIN, and FEINSTEIN. I ask my colleagues for their understanding and their support for this legislation--legislation that will ensure the most basic elements of fairness in our democratic system, which will allow people who have fled war and persecution to come to the freedom of the United States and to be treated fairly by our laws. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent during the introduction of my bill, that congressional fellow Terry Ceravolo and intern Ernest White be allowed privileges of the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that an intern in my office, Mr. Chris Polaszek, be allowed floor privileges during the introduction of S. 2058. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the following newspaper article appear in the RECORD following my statement on H.R. 1180, Work Incentives/Tax Extenders Conference Report.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, to quote Yogi Berra, it's deja vu all over again. A little less than a year ago Congress passed an Omnibus Appropriations bill for fiscal year 1999. That legislation combined eight separate appropriations bills and included $200 billion in discretionary spending. Last year's Omnibus spending bill also included $21 billion in emergency spending--$13 billion of which directly reduced the surplus for Fiscal Year 1999 and $5 billion of which reduced the surplus for Fiscal Year 2000. Members decried the process that led to last year's bill, threw themselves on the mercy of the American public asking forgiveness, and vowed that it would never happen again. 
   One senior Republican, speaking on condition of anonymity about the level of frustration with last year's budget process, said earlier this year: ``We are looking for ways to avoid what happened last year. We are determined not to go through that again this year.'' Unfortunately, Mr. President, here we are again--only worse. This year's bill clearly demonstrates that Congress has not learned from its past mistakes. 
   What makes this bill even more insidious is that we not only repeat last year's mistakes, but in fact, build upon them with even more creative ways to flaunt fiscal discipline. For that reason, I will oppose it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today, the Senate is considering a multi-billion package focused on adjusting certain Medicare provisions in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. 
   That historic legislation made changes in payment structures for programs and providers within Medicare and Medicaid. 
   Many in the Medicare provider community are concerned that these changes have negatively affected their ability to provide adequate access and quality care to their patients. 
   Mr. President, I commend the Administration and my colleagues for completing the difficult task of designing a bill that addresses many of these concerns. 
   I have heard from hospitals, physicians, community health centers and a variety of other Medicare providers, all of whom are very concerned that the quality of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries may decline significantly if cuts to provider payments are not softened. 
   There are many provisions in this bill that I would like to see enacted. These include a moratorium on the $1500 therapy cap, support for the skilled nursing facilities, cancer centers and disproportionate share hospitals, and enhancements to Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   But while there is some clear evidence that Congress may have erred in designing some of the Medicare provisions in the Balanced Budget Act, that fact does not relieve us of our fiduciary responsibilities to the American public. 
   Our commitment to revisiting Medicare provider adjustments must be accompanied by a commitment to pay for these actions. 
   By refusing to pay for this bill, we are funding changes to a balanced budget agreement in a way that steals from future generations. 
   This is an irony we cannot afford. 
   Mr. President, allow me to explain. 
   To date, we have spent all of our anticipated revenue for Fiscal Year 2000. Any further government spending comes straight from the Social Security surplus. 
   It is easy to spend money when it is not your own. 
   Didn't we prove that during the last thirty years of ``borrow and spend'' budgeting--a period in which our national debt rose from $366 million in 1969 to $5.6 billion today? 
   Let's not start down that slope again. 
   Mr. President, I clearly remember the day we passed the Balanced Budget Act in 1997. We all congratulated each other on a job well done. 
   We slapped each other on the back and took full and deserved credit for balancing the budget for the first time in a generation. 
   Now we are facing up to some of the realities of that great achievement. 
   Just as we took responsibility for our accomplishments in 1997, we must now take responsibility for fixing some of our mistakes. 
   If Congress believes that provider relief is necessary, then it must exercise fiscal responsibility and pay for it with true offsets--not surplus funds. 
   Congress has clearly stated that ensuring retirement security for the American public is its top priority. 
   Democrats and Republicans have made clear that saving Social Security and Medicare must be the first items of business on any legislative agenda. 
   But future generations are depending on our deeds--not our words. 
   Mr. President, we must hold true to our commitment to ensure Social Security's solvency until 2075 and to strengthen and modernize Medicare before we look to the surplus for any other purpose. 
   During his State of the Union Address, President Clinton made a commitment to bolster Social Security and  Medicare. Congress has joined him in that commitment. 
   A test of our commitment to protecting Social Security surplus is being played out on the Senate floor today. 
   Since the beginning of this debate I have offered proposals to restore payments to providers without stealing from Social Security and Medicare. 
   When the Finance Committee marked up its bill, I offered an amendment that would have fully offset the cost of this package through a series of modest, non-Medicare-related revenue increases. 
   It was my hope that the Committee would have shown the same enthusiasm for fiscal responsibility as it did two years ago. 
   However, it thwarted our commitment to save Social Security and Medicare by a vote of 14 to 6. 
   I also offered an amendment that would have put a down payment on true Medicare reform, while saving the Medicare system $4 billion over 10 years--nearly one third of the overall cost of the bill. 
   This focused on five proven and tested proposals, including a competitive bidding for part B services provision that was passed unanimously by the Finance Committee in 1997. 
   By fulfilling our obligation to help the Medicare system provide quality care while promoting cost efficiency, this amendment embraced the same principles that helped us achieve a balanced budget in 1997. 
   But our dedication to these principles now appears to have vanished. 
   The audacity of paying for this bill with the Social Security surplus is exacerbated by the fact that it includes provisions that actually do away with cost saving programs enacted in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 
   Allow me to direct your attention to two of the less heralded provisions in this package. 
   First, the postponement of the enactment of the ``inherent reasonableness'' provision in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 until final regulations are published. This provision prevents beneficiaries from realizing millions of dollars in savings by blocking the government's ability to negotiate rates with home oxygen and durable medical equipment suppliers. 
   By reimbursing providers on a market basis, the competitive bidding process will save the system money by setting a true price for medical goods and services, while ensuring that beneficiaries continue to receive comprehensive coverage. 
   By putting off the implementation of this provision, potentially for years, we are essentially taking $500 million of potential savings out of the pockets of Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Second, is the inclusion of the following language in the conference report concerning the risk adjuster for Medicare+Choice plans: 
   ``The parties to the agreement note that in 1997, when Congress required the Secretary to develop a risk adjuster for Medicare+Choice plans, it was concerned that those plans that treated the most severely ill enrollees were not adequately paid. The Congress envisioned a risk adjuster that would be more clinically based than the old method of adjusting payments. The Congress did not instruct HCFA to implement the provision in a manner that would reduce aggregate Medicare+Choice payments. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office did not estimate that the provision would reduce aggregate Medicare+Choice payments. Consequently, the parties to the agreement urge the Secretary to revise the regulations implementing the risk adjuster so as to provide for more accurate payments, without reducing overall Medicare+Choice payments.'' 
   Mr. President, the Health Financing Administration (HCFA) currently estimates that risk adjustment will decrease plan payments by approximately $10 billion over ten years. This estimate is based on the additional money that plans are paid relative to fee-for-service Medicare after adjusting for health status. Plans that serve a higher proportion of sicker beneficiaries would not see a decrease in payments. Plans that skim the healthiest patients from the Medicare population would see the biggest decrease in payments. 
   Since first learning that HCFA was planning to decrease plan payments under risk adjustment, lobbyists for the managed care industry have been claiming that congressional intent was for risk adjustment to be budget neutral, and they have been lobbying this issue on the Hill. They tried to get it into the Senate Finance Committee report but were unsuccessful. The language was included in the House Ways and Means committee report, however. The House-Senate agreement language comes straight from the House report. 
   It's telling that the statute does not explicitly state that risk adjustment should be budget neutral. In addition, it's telling that lobbyists for the managed care industry have not publicly stated that congressional intent was to make risk adjustment budget neutral. 
   In terms of what congressional intent actually was in BBA 97--I think the story is not entirely clear. It could be that no one thought much about the issue. But regardless of whether you are sympathetic to managed care plans or not, it is disingenuous to claim definitively that congressional intent was not to reduce plan payments in BBA. 
   This is an outrage Mr. President. 
   I believe that we should correct mistakes that were made in the BBA and pay for those mistakes. Equally, it is my feeling that we should seize the opportunity to make fundamental reforms to the Medicare program in order to modernize and improve services for Medicare beneficiaries. 
   In passing this legislation, we are trading fiscal responsibility for fiscal recklessness. We are ignoring innovation in favor of the status quo. 
   Mr. President, I am committed to working to find a solution to the difficult problem of bringing Medicare into the 21st Century and keeping it solvent. 
   It was my hope that we would have the opportunity to vote today on a package that represented good public policy and included an offset that upheld our commitment to fiscal responsibility. 
   I regret that this is not the case. 
   But most of all, I regret the overt lack of concern that this body has shown for the future generations whose Medicare and Social Security benefits hang in the balance. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today, I rise with my colleague Senator MACK to take a moment to recognize our Florida state park system, which recently received the prestigious 1999 National State Parks Gold Medal from the National Sports Foundation, Inc., a part of the 25,000-member National Sporting Goods Association. The State Parks Gold Medal is awarded every other year to the state park system considered America's best. We are proud and honored that Florida's state park system, which includes 151 diverse state parks throughout the state covering more than one-half million acres, received this recognition in October at the National Recreation and Park Association Annual Congress in Nashville, Tennessee. 
   Congratulations to Governor Jeb Bush, Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Secretary David Struhs, and the Department's Division of Recreation and Parks Director, Fran Mainella, on this achievement. 
   This nation's state parks play a key role in our society--they provide much needed recreational opportunities to Americans while protecting key resources. These parks create the link between our national parks, dedicated specifically to protection of the resources for which the park was created, and our local parks, dedicated specifically to recreation. Without a strong state park system, the resources in our national parks will become stressed as people seek to fill unmet recreational needs. We are proud that the state of Florida recognizes this connection, and works to maintain a strong state park system. 
   In honor of ``Florida's State Parks--Voted America's Best,'' Governor Bush and the Florida Cabinet have designated Saturday, November 20 as a ``free day'' when admission charges to Florida state parks will be waived for all visitors. We invite all of our colleagues to a free day in one or more of America's best state parks that day. 
   Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity to recognize these outstanding natural areas, preserved forever for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have been to the floor many times in the past to speak about the expense smoking has cost this great country--both in terms of dollars that the federal and state governments have paid for the care of those afflicted with tobacco-related illnesses and in terms of lives lost from this dreadful addiction. 
   I have supported state and federal efforts to recoup a portion of these lost dollars from the tobacco industry, as well as their efforts to begin education campaigns that would teach all Americans about tobacco's harmful effects. 
   And, most importantly, I have worked with my colleagues to ensure that tobacco companies are no longer targeting our youth. 
   Tobacco companies must stop marketing their wares to our most vulnerable population, be it through magazine ads that depict smoking as the ``cool'' thing to do or through the strategic placement of billboard advertisements near their schools and play areas. 
   Mr. President, I am here today to let this distinguished body know that in Florida our message is being heard. 
   Florida's children are learning about the health hazards that tobacco poses, and they are deciding not to smoke. 
   This great news is due, in large part, to the successes of our innovative anti-tobacco pilot program--the ``Truth'' campaign. 
   Funded with the monies awarded in Florida's 1997 tobacco settlement, the ``Truth'' campaign has a very simple mission--to counter the misinformation that our youth hear about smoking. 
   Funded with the monies awarded in Florida's 1997 tobacco settlement, the ``Truth'' campaign has a very simple mission--to counter the misinformation that our youth hear about smoking. 
   Much of this truth-telling is done by students working in what are known as SWAT teams. 
   The Students Working Against Tobacco concept was created in February 1998. 
   Today, SWAT teams are operating in all 67 counties of Florida, with more than 10,000 members throughout the state. 
   With a goal of reducing teen smoking through youth empowerment, the SWAT teams have formed partnerships with their communities and developed both marketing and education campaigns to impart the truth about tobacco. 
   Although SWAT teams have been operational for less than two years, they are already making progress in the war against tobacco. 
   Statewide studies are showing that over 95 percent of Florida's youth recognize the ``Truth'' Campaign and know its message to be anti-tobacco. 
   Additonally, surveys are showing that teenage smoking has decreased since SWAT's 1998 inception. 
   Tobacco use among high school students has dropped by 8.5 percent, and middle schools have seen a dramatic 21 percent decline in student tobacco use. 
   This reduction is particularly significant when compared to national statistics showing that states without an anti-tobacco campaign have seen an approximately eleven percent rise in tobacco use. 
   Florida's success may be due to SWAT's willingness to employ both education and mass media as means of spreading their message. 
   Ads that are designed by students are played on local television stations, informing teens of the perils of tobacco use. 
   Similarly, billboards that the SWAT teams have designed are displayed within the communities. 
   These are complemented by an education component that is adaptable for all school grades. 
   Health classes provide an opportunity to discuss the impact smoking has upon the body, from halitosis to lung cancer. 
   In reading classes, young children learn to read using books that are about how to stay healthy and smoke-free. 
   Science courses have moved the anti-tobacco campaign into the technology age, employing CD-Rom programs such as ``Science, Tobacco and You,'' an innovative computer program that demonstrates tobacco's effects on the body--from first puff to final drag. 
   Students scan their photo into the computer, becoming a virtual reality smoker. 
   As the program progresses, students watch their teeth, skin, bones and lungs begin to deteriorate. 
   Currently, SWAT teams are strengthening their community outreach and grassroots work. 
   In their current effort, students are working to get tobacco ads removed from magazines that have either one million youth readers or over ten percent of total readership under age 18. 
   They are collecting these ads and returning them in bulk to the tobacco companies, with a cover letter stating that Big Tobacco needs to strengthen their commitment to reducing teen smoking. 
   SWAT teams have offered to meet with industry representatives to share ideas about how this mutual goal might be met. 
   Once again, the SWAT program has achieved success. 
   At their next board meeting, they will be joined by representatives from Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company to discuss how to better target tobacco ad campaigns to adults, not youth.  
   Mr. President, I am very proud of these young people. 
   I am here today to commend them publicly, and to share their accomplishments with all of you because they are truly making a difference in the battle against teenage smoking. 
   Florida has encouraged its youth to creatively combat one of the foremost problems facing today's teenagers, entrusting them with the tools and means to successfully meet their goals. 
   As other areas work towards the development of a youth-based anti-tobacco initiative, SWAT will be the model upon which their programs will be based. 
   To the over 10,000 members of SWAT, thank you for your efforts to educate Floridians about the dangers of tobacco. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I understand we are in a period of morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for up to 30 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Stacy Rosenberg, a staff member of my office, be granted floor privileges for the duration of today's session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you very much, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, on October 31 of this year, I saw yet another example of the challenges we are facing in our National Park System. 
   Two weekends ago, I visited Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico, located about 1 hour west of Santa Fe. 
   Bandelier National Monument was claimed a national monument under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service in 1916. In 1932, it was transferred to the National Park Service. 
   Bandelier contains 32,737 acres, of which 23,267 acres are designated as wilderness. It is a park that is intended to preserve the cliff houses of the Pueblo Indian. 
   I draw your attention to this photograph taken near the entrance to Bandelier National Monument. One of the cliff homes can be seen at the base of this large cliff which forms the most dramatic signature of Bandelier National Monument. This photograph gives some idea of the magnitude of the cultural resources which are located in this park. 
   In addition to the preservation of the cultural resource of the monument, the outstanding superintendent at Bandelier, Mr. Roy Weaver, also contends with preservation of historical resources such as 1930s CCC buildings which were constructed in order to properly present the park to its many visitors but which have fallen into a sad state of disrepair. 
   Using funds from the recreation fee demonstration program, Bandelier National Monument has refurbished several of these existing structures to a functional condition. This park, as many of our Nation's parks, is faced with a degradation of its core resources. One of the significant challenges is the unnatural pace of erosion within the monument's wilderness area. 
   This problem is in part due to intense grazing which occurred prior to the designation of the lands as a national monument in 1916. This activity ended over 60 years ago but is still impacting the resources and the health of the park. The heavy grazing prior to 1916 reduced the underbrush, allowing the pinon tree to take over the landscape. This tree is now firmly established and has prevented the growth of other natural species in the canyon of Bandelier. Without the diverse plant species in the forest to retain the soil, erosion occurs at a much more rapid pace. This erosion is one of the principal 
   reasons why the archeological sites for which the monument was established are now severely threatened. We are in grave danger of losing artifacts, structures, and information about a people who spent hundreds of years building a society in the Southwest. 
   In addition to cultural resource damage to the unnatural state of the environment at Bandelier, human behavior has also had negative impacts. One of the first areas visitors to Bandelier approach, and just off the main trail, is a series of cave dwellings. Ascending the ladder into the cave is stepping back hundreds of years into a different culture. One arrives at the cave only to find the stark realities of contemporary America by a desecration of these caves with graffiti. This photograph showing an example of that desecration speaks a thousand words about the level of respect which we as a society have paid to our national treasures over the years. 
   There is some hope. In 1998, the Congress and the administration established a program at the suggestion of the National Park Service. It is called Vanishing Treasures. This program was the brain child of the national park superintendents from Chaco Culture National Historic Site, Aztec Ruins National Monument, and the Salinas Pueblo Missions National Monument. 
   The Vanishing Treasure Program seeks to restore the ruins to a condition where maintenance scheduled at regular intervals rather than large-scale restoration projects will be sufficient to keep the ruins in good condition. The program also has another very significant objective: Training the next generation of preservation specialists who can perform this highly specific, complex craftsmanship of maintaining national treasures such as these caves at Bandelier National Monument. 
   The original outline of the Vanishing Treasures Program called for $3.5 million in the first year, increasing by $1 million per year until it reached $6 million in the year 2001, after which it would decrease slightly until the year 2008. We hoped during that time period to have been able to have dealt with the residue of issues such as the desecration of the caves at Bandelier. 
   Unfortunately, beginning in fiscal year 1998, the funding was not at the recommended $3.5 million level but, rather, was at $1 million. In fiscal year 1999, it was increased to $1.3 million. The current Interior appropriations bill, which has been passed by both the House and the Senate, contains $994,000 for the Vanishing Treasures Program. 
   At this level of funding distributed throughout the entire Southwest, some 41 national park sites benefit from this program. At that level of funding, we cannot possibly come close to meeting the needs for the protection of our cultural treasures in the Southwest. We are effectively making the decision that we are prepared to see these cultural and historic treasures lost before we make funds available for their preservation. 
   We are at a crossroads in our Nation's historical efforts to protect and preserve those national treasures which are the responsibility of the National Park Service. The history of our Nation is marked by activism on public land issues. The first full century of the United States' existence--the 19th century--was marked by the Louisiana Purchase which added almost 530 million acres to the United States, changing America from an eastern coastal nation to a continental empire. 
   One hundred years later, President Theodore Roosevelt set the tone for public land issues in the second full history in our Nation's history. He did it both in words and action. President Theodore Roosevelt stated:  
   Conservation means development as much as it does protection. I recognize the right and duty of this generation to develop and use the natural resources of our land; but I do not recognize the right to waste them, or to rob, by wasteful use, the generations that will come after us.  
   Roosevelt took action to meet these goals. During his administration, the United States protected almost 230 million acres of lands for future public use. The question for us as we commence the third full century, the 21th century of the United States, is, can we live up to this example? Can we be worthy of the standards of Thomas Jefferson at the beginning of the 19th century and Theodore Roosevelt at the beginning of this century? 
   I have discussed today the issues I witnessed at Bandelier National Monument and the small efforts being made to rectify this situation. Estimates of the maintenance backlog throughout the National Park Service system range from $1.2 billion to over $3.5 billion, depending on the calculation method. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed at the conclusion  of my remarks an article which appeared in the Wall Street Journal of November 12 of this year entitled ``Montana's Glacier Park Copes With Big Freeze On Funds To Maintain Its Historic Structures.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The National Park Service this year requested $194 million for its operation and maintenance. In this year's appropriations process, the House and Senate had the good judgment to actually increase the National Park Service request to $224.5 million. This is a good step forward, and I commend the Appropriations Committee for having taken it. 
   However, if we are to prevent the existing backlog from growing, we must support periodic maintenance on the existing facilities in the Park System. I see we have now as our Presiding Officer a person who has probably studied more, thought more, and done more to deal with this problem than any Member of the Congress, the distinguished Senator from Wyoming. 
   I wish to take this opportunity to commend the Presiding Officer for his efforts in the program of the demonstration recreational fee in the Park System. I showed a moment ago a photo of a portion of some buildings at Bandelier National Park in New Mexico which were in serious disrepair. Largely because of the ability to direct some of those national park demonstration funds to their rehabilitation, they are now being saved and will serve for many years to come. It is a very constructive role in this national monument as well as protecting other valuable historic structures within the national monument. 
   I wish to thank the distinguished Senator from Wyoming for the leadership he has given in that regard. 
   I am sad to report that the Interior conference report, which will probably soon be before us, has recommended a reduction in the cyclical maintenance of the National Park System and repair and rehabilitation accounts. While these reductions are relatively small--$3 million in the case of cyclic maintenance and $2.5 million in repair and rehabilitation--failure to meet these basic annual maintenance requirements will only add to our backlog of unmet needs. We cannot make the progress we must make in protecting our national treasures with these Band-Aid solutions. 
   I suggest, building on the leadership you provided through the Demonstration National Park Fee Program, and the changes that were made in the relationship of the parks to their concessionaires, that we can go further in assuring the long-term well-being of our National Park System. 
   In my judgment, what the National Park Service needs is a sustained, reliable, adequate funding source that will allow the Park Service to develop intelligent plans based on a prioritization of need, with confidence the funds will be available as needed to complete the plans. This approach will allow common sense to prevail when projects are prioritized for funding. 
   In some cases, such as one with which I am personally very familiar, committed, and engaged--the Florida Everglades and the Everglades National Park--natural resource projects can be compared to open heart surgery. You simply cannot begin the operation, open the patient, and then fail to complete the operation if the money runs out before the surgery is finished. To do so is to assure the patient will die in the surgery suite. 
   In cases such as Bandelier National Monument and the Ellis 
   Island National Monument, another great national treasure, which I visited on September 27 of this year, we are in a race to complete a known cure before the patient is lost. Bandelier's superintendent, Roy Weaver, is taking every effort he can to preserve the resources in his park. He is focusing the park entrance fees on repairing and maintaining historical structures. He is using funds available through the Vanishing Treasures Program to restore the multitude of cultural resources in the monument. 
   Mr. Weaver is a superintendent whose knowledge of the history of the people who resided in this area of the country hundreds of years ago and whose desire to preserve their culture are evident even in a brief visit. Mr. Weaver's enthusiasm and dedication embody the conservation ethic of President Theodore Roosevelt and the National Park Service. It is our responsibility to give Mr. Weaver and his colleagues across America the tools they need to put their enthusiasm to work. It is time to take the next step. 
   Earlier this year, with Senators REID and MACK, I introduced S. 819, the National Park Preservation Act. This act would provide dedicated funding to the National Park Service to restore and conserve the natural resources within our Park System. This legislation seeks to address the long-term efforts required to truly restore and protect our natural, cultural, and historic resources in the National Park System. This legislation would allocate funds derived from the use of a nonrenewable national resource--offshore drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and gas--to a renewable resource, restoration and preservation of natural, cultural, and historic resources in our National Park System. 
   At the beginning of this century, in a time of relative tranquility, President Theodore Roosevelt managed to instill the Nation with a tradition of conservation. He did so with this simple challenge: Can we leave this world a better place for future generations? 
   We are at the end of this century and at the end of the first half of the 106th Congress. As we embark on the third century of our Nation's adventure and the second half of the 106th Congress, let us keep the vision of Theodore Roosevelt in mind. Let us take action to protect our National Park System. 
   In the words of President Theodore Roosevelt:  
   The conservation of natural resources is the fundamental problem. Unless we solve that problem, it will avail us little to solve all others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it has been said that the core issues in politics are: Who wins, who loses, and who decides. Historically, the decision as to the level of exemption of a person's homestead has been set by the States. 
   In my State, it has been set in a constitutional amendment which required a vote of a majority of the citizens of Florida. I believe that is where the decision should continue to rest. 
   The amendment that is being offered by the Senator from Texas, and her supporters, would provide for the States to continue to exercise that authority, by making an affirmative election to opt out of the arbitrary $100,000 limit which is being proposed by the advocates of the underlying amendment. 
   I urge adoption of the second-degree amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am extremely pleased to join with my distinguished colleagues, Senator BINGAMAN and Senator FEINSTEIN, in introducing the Police Athletic League (PAL) Youth Enrichment Act of 1999. This legislation is designed to reduce both juvenile crime and the risk that youth will become victims of crime. By providing productive activities during non-school hours in communities across this country, we can provide the healthy environment that our young people deserve. Outside the home, there is no safer place in any community than a school, a playground, a community center, or a park where law enforcement personnel are coordinating the activities. 
   The Police Athletic League actually started back in the 1910's. A group of  New York youth tossed a rock through a shopkeeper's window. That rock pioneered a new approach to juvenile delinquency prevention. Lieutenant Ed Flynn used that incident to create the Police Athletic League--an organization that makes police officers into role models and friends rather than enemies. PAL brings cops and kids together in activities where mutual trust and respect can be built. It is a statement to young people, particularly in less advantaged neighborhoods, that the community cares about them. It extends a hand of friendship to children--boys, girls, young men and women--who do not have many opportunities. 
   Mr. President, there is clearly a direct link between crime prevention and PAL participation. Young people who are idle have the potential to be drawn into crime. In Baltimore, the PAL centers have cut juvenile crime by 30 percent and decreased juvenile victimization by 40 percent. In El Centro, California, PAL has reduced juvenile crime and gang activity in the HUD Housing Development by 64 percent. 
   PAL, staffed by police officers, has numerous success stories of helping to shape the lives of individuals. In my own state of Florida, former PAL kid Ed Tobin is now a successful attorney. Steve Colin is a well known radio station personality in Miami Beach. In Jacksonville, 23 Sheriff's Officers were PAL kids. Derrick Alexander of the Cleveland Browns and Shawn Jefferson of the New England Patriots were both PAL kids. 
   Our legislation seeks to expand services of current chapters and provide seed money for 50 new chapters per year for the next 5 years (2000-2004). New chapters will offer programs providing a combination of mentoring assistance; academic assistance; recreational and athletic activities; technology training; and drug, alcohol, and gang prevention activities. This list is by no means exhaustive. PAL centers also offer health and nutrition counseling; cultural and social programs; conflict resolution training, anger management, and peer pressure training; job skill preparation activities; and Youth PAL conferences or Youth Forums. 
   PAL currently has 320 chapters serving over 3,000 communities with a network of 1,700 facilities. Today, they mentor and serve more than one and half million young people, ages 6 to 18, throughout the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. In my home state, the Miami-Dade PAL serves over 13,000 youth annually, and Jacksonville serves over 12,000. We know, however, that many areas are still undeserved by PAL chapters. 
   Law enforcement, community organizations, and local governments strongly support this bill. Mr. President, this investment in our youth will pay for itself many times over in reduced crime and law enforcement costs. I urge all my colleagues to support the passage of this much needed legislation. Together with the Police Athletic League, we can fill playgrounds instead of prisons.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 5 minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the beginning of this congressional session was filled with hope and promise. A strong economy and improvements in the Federal budget gave us a wonderful opportunity to make important investments in our Nation's future. A portion of these surpluses could be used to extend the solvency of the Social Security program. A portion of the surplus could be used to restore solvency to Medicare and to modernize its benefit structure to reflect current medical practices. A portion of the surplus could be used, as was urged in the full-page ad in the Washington Post of October 28, ``to use this opportunity to preserve our parks and open spaces forever.'' This could be accomplished by such things as fully funding the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and a portion of the surplus could be used to fund tax relief and economic stimulation. 
   Instead of devoting the surplus to these important matters, Congress is dribbling away the surplus with a combination of get-out-of-town spending and budgetary trickery. Our actions--emergency spending, scorekeeping adjustments, administrative directives--have one simple result: They are spending our surplus. Once current revenues are spent, the non-Social Security surplus will be spent and the Social Security surplus will be spent. If Congress continues on this gimmick-potholed path, we will be harshly judged by the American people for our shortsightedness. 
   On October 4 of this year, the Washington Post ran an article on the 10-year anniversary of the reunification of Germany. In that article, Wolfgang Schaeuble, the Christian Democratic leader and Chancellor Kohl's most trusted adviser, lamented the fact that Germans had avoided making the tough political choices 10 years ago that would have made their country stronger today. The spirit of reunification created an atmosphere for reform. The Germans could have used that spirit to make fundamental changes to their overly generous social contract that all acknowledged was unsustainable. They deferred, and the result was a tripling of the national debt in less than a decade. 
   We face the same choice today. Our positive economic outlook creates a similar potential for the United States. The budget surplus gives us the resources to convert a substantial part of that potential to reality. 
   At the beginning of the year, the Congressional Budget Office estimated we would have a non-Social Security surplus of $21 billion. What have we done in the last 10 months? The combination of excessive spending and the budget trickery designed to disguise even greater spending have placed the on-budget surplus in serious jeopardy and threatened to undermine the Social Security surplus. These actions--spend and then hide--have occurred in waves throughout 1999. As with our coastline, no single wave erodes our beaches. Rather, it is a succession of waves that erodes the sand. These spending waves have eroded our surplus, eroded our opportunities, eroded our vision of what could be accomplished. 
   In May of 1999, the Congress passed a supplemental appropriations bill which provided for $15 billion for everything from reconstruction aid for Central America and the Caribbean to farm loan assistance. Much of the May supplemental bill was designated as an emergency. No spending cuts or revenue increases were enacted to offset the emergency spending contained in that May 1999 supplemental appropriation. The consequence? A $15 billion reduction in the non-Social Security surplus. 
   The May supplemental appropriations lowered for 1999 the surplus by $4 billion. That was a significant number because without that additional $4 billion of unpaid-for spending, we would have actually ended 1999 with an on-budget surplus. But because of it, we have ended 1999 with an on-budget deficit of $1 billion. 
   The May supplemental will lower the current fiscal year 2000 on-budget surplus by $7 billion. It will lower the next fiscal year 2001 by $2 billion; 2002 by $1 billion; and 2003 by $1 billion. 
   By this action, we not only adversely affected the fiscal status of the year in which the action was taken but for 4 years into the future. 
   This chart shows we started with a $21 billion on-budget surplus; as a result of that portion of the supplemental appropriations which was applied to fiscal year 2000, we reduced it by $7 billion. So now we only have a $14 billion on-budget surplus. 
   The next wave hit in August of 1999, the Agriculture Appropriations Act: $8 billion of emergency spending, again, none of which was offset by reductions in spending elsewhere or increased revenues. So we have reduced the on-budget surplus by another $8 billion from $14 billion to $6 billion. 
   In October of 1999, the Defense appropriations bill included more than $7  billion in emergency spending, of which $5 billion reduces this year's on-budget surplus. So our $6 billion on-budget surplus is now down to $1 billion. 
   Also, in October of 1999, the Commerce-State-Justice appropriations bill designated $4.5 billion of spending for the emergency of the decadal census. More than $4 billion of that amount will come directly out of the 2000 on-budget surplus and, thus, as a result of that, we have exhausted our on-budget surplus, and we have reduced the Social Security surplus from $147 billion to $144 billion. 
   What have we done thus far? We have initiated a series of waves of unfunded spending which have gone through all of our regular revenue for the year 2000 and now have gone through all of the on-budget surplus and have eaten into the Social Security surplus by $3 billion. 
   That was not all. In addition to this spending, we have also had a series of accounting tricks. In the summer of 1999, to give the appearance of meeting the discretionary spending caps established as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the Budget Committee directed the Congressional Budget Office to alter its estimates of spending included in several of the appropriations bills. These so-called scorekeeping adjustments which total $17 billion make it look as if we are spending less in the current year than is actually the case. 
   The Budget Committee justifies these directions by claiming they are more in line with those used by the Office of Management and Budget. 
   What is happening is we are cherry picking. For example, the Office of Management and Budget spending estimate for the year 2000 for the Department of Defense is lower than the Congressional Budget Office. Therefore, the Budget Committee says: Use the Office of Management and Budget. But guess what. When we turn to the energy and water appropriations bill where the reverse is true--that is where CBO's spending is lower than the Office of Management and Budget--they said: Use the Congressional Budget Office 
   estimate. 
   It is a case of trickery: Pick the lowest estimate of spending and force that lower estimate to be the one used to assess whether or not we have eaten into the Social Security surplus. The analogy would be a business which used two sets of books. The difference is that the business man or woman who did that would go to jail. 
   No Halloween mask can hide our identities as we engage in these trick-or-treat charades. When these scorekeeping adjustments are added to the emergency spending listed previously, Congress will have spent the entire amount of its current revenue, the entire amount of its on-budget surplus, and will have spent at least $20 billion of Social Security surplus for fiscal year 2000. 
   The trickery does not end there. Another bit of trickery is directed at administrative action. In an effort to avoid paying for additional spending, congressional leaders have asked the administration to make changes in the Medicare rules allowing for higher reimbursement levels to Medicare health care providers. These payments, anticipated to be approximately $4.5 billion over the next 5 years, will not show up in any action taken by Congress, but they will certainly result in higher spending and smaller surpluses. 
   The analogy is to a family which sends a son or daughter to college and gives him or her a credit card to pay for college expenses. The credit card receipts may not be signed by the parents, but they are ultimately going to be responsible. At the day of reckoning, they will have to pay for them and reduce their bank account in so doing. 
   The threat to the on-budget and Social Security surpluses are not confined to the current fiscal year. There are other waves that have yet to hit the beach but are forming on the ocean's horizon. 
   As an example, we are proposing paybacks, additional reimbursement to Medicare providers for the current fiscal year of $1 billion; for the fiscal year 2001, $5 billion; and over the next 10 years, $15 billion. None of those are currently proposed to be offset by either spending reductions or revenue increases. In the House of Representatives, they are proposing to marry a minimum wage increase with tax cuts. Those tax cuts over 10 years will total $95 billion. They are not proposed to be offset by either spending cuts elsewhere or revenue increases. 
   Mr. President, $5 billion of the discretionary spending authorized in the last few months will not occur in the current fiscal year but, rather, have been pushed into 2001, and another $2 billion has even been pushed into the year 2002. The spending limits of fiscal years 2001 and 2002 are even more restrictive than this year's limit. The spending cap for 2000 was set in 1997 at $579 billion. We are probably going to spend in excess of $610 billion before this session concludes. We have blown through the spending cap for this year by some $31 billion. 
   The problem gets worse because in fiscal year 2001, we have set ourselves a spending limit of $575 billion, $35 billion below what we are spending this year. In the fiscal year 2002, the spending cap is $569 billion, another $6 billion below current year spending. 
   Given the fact that Congress cannot pass spending bills within this year's limit of $579 billion, it is wholly unrealistic to believe Congress will have even greater success with the significantly lower--$35 billion next year and $41 billion 2 years out--limits than we have today. Spending above those limits will further threaten the Social Security surplus. 
   In fiscal year 2000, we will spend all of the tax revenue we collect, we will spend all of the on-budget surplus, and we will dip into Social Security by about $20 billion. In the year 2001, we will spend all the revenue we collect, and at this rate, we have already spent all but $3 billion of the on-budget surplus. 
   Why is this recounting of the reality of our spendthrift year of 1999 important? Some say it does not matter if we spend the Social Security surplus; we have done it for 30 years, so why not 1 more year? Why stop the spend-and-borrow party today? Spending the Social Security surplus is stated to be good for the economy. 
   I argue just the opposite, that preserving the Social Security surplus is intricately linked to a strong American economy. Most economists agree that increasing national savings is important to maintaining a strong economy. Greater savings results in greater investment in plant and equipment, which creates jobs and raises productivity. Greater productivity translates into a higher standard of living. The surest way to increase national savings is to reduce the Federal debt. 
   The Finance Committee even has a subcommittee dedicated to this proposition. It has a subcommittee with the title, Long-Term Growth and Debt Reduction. We have denominated one of our very institutions to the proposition of the relationship between economic growth and debt reduction. 
   Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, told the Senate Finance Committee earlier this year:  
   Increasing our national saving is critical. The President's approach to Social Security reform supports a large unified budget surplus. This is a major step in the right direction in that it would ensure that the current rise in government's positive contribution to national saving is sustained.  
   I would say that quotation is even more relevant today, as we have just gotten the latest monthly report on the national personal savings rate and it is virtually at an all-time low. It is, in fact, the savings that are occurring at the national governmental level that are providing most of the savings which are available in our economy. 
   Reducing the Federal debt frees capital for use in the private sector. Lowering the public debt reduces the Federal Government's interest costs, freeing scarce resources for other important public investments. 
   The Office of Economic Policy reported in August that over the last 7 years, because of the greater fiscal discipline that has been practiced at the national level, we have saved for the American taxpayer $189 billion in interest costs--$189 billion which is now available for other constructive public uses, including financing tax relief for American taxpayers. 
   Reducing the Federal debt also has a positive effect on individual American families. When the Federal Government decreases its borrowing, it results in greater availability of capital for all other borrowers. The same Office of Economic Policy estimates that a typical American family with a $100,000  mortgage on their home will save about $2,000 a year in mortgage payments if interest rates are reduced 2 percent as a result of the Federal Government's more austere fiscal policy. 
   So saving the Social Security surplus is important in the economic life of our Nation and for individual American families today. It also will be a critical factor in the challenge we are going to be faced with in the next two decades as Social Security begins to meet the demands of the baby boom generation. 
   Demographic changes taking place in our country will dramatically alter the Social Security program. An aging post-World War II generation, declining birthrates among young- and middle-aged adult Americans, and increasing life 
   expectancies will quickly deplete the assets which are currently accumulating in the Social Security trust fund. 
   By law, surpluses generated by Social Security may only be invested in U.S. Government or U.S. Government-backed securities. The Social Security surpluses being generated today were planned as part of the changes made to the program in 1977 and then in 1983. The surpluses were created for the express purpose of prefunding the retirement benefits of the baby boom generation. It is much like the biblical principle of saving during 7 good years to prepare for 7 lean years. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 5 minutes to complete my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair and my colleagues. 
   Under current projections, these surpluses will reverse in the year 2014 when the baby boom generation begins to retire. Their demand for retirement benefits will outpace the revenue collected from payroll taxes after the year 2014. These shortfalls will require that the assets, the Federal Government's securities which have been accumulated by the Social Security trust fund, be redeemed. 
   In essence, the Social Security trust fund, with a large pile of several trillion dollars' worth of Federal securities, will now be going to the Federal Treasury and saying: We are going to turn these pieces of paper back to you, and we need the cash they represent in order to meet the current obligations to Social Security beneficiaries. 
   The most effective way to plan for the demands that will be created by the baby boomers' retirement is to utilize the current Social Security surpluses in a very thoughtful and prudent manner, in a manner to reduce that portion of the national debt which is held by the public. 
   Lowering our outstanding debt today will put the United States in a much stronger financial position should we need to borrow funds to redeem the U.S. Treasury securities currently held by the Social Security trust fund. The cash obtained from redeeming those assets will be used to pay benefits when the baby boom generation retires. 
   The Social Security surplus can lower the debt held by the public by $2 trillion if we do not waste it. That $2 trillion reduction in debt held by the public will serve as a critical cushion to meet our Social Security obligations. 
   In summary, we are about to lose a great opportunity to address the long-term fiscal challenges facing our country. Instead of preserving both the on-budget and the Social Security surpluses for uses in saving Social Security, Medicare, investing in America, or returning it to the taxpayers in the form of tax relief, Congress is frittering the money away. 
   We have spent the fiscal year 2000 on-budget surplus, and we have spent at least $20 billion of this year's Social Security surplus. The outlook for 2001 and 2002 is not any better. We should stop these actions now, pay for the spending we enact, and avoid the use of accounting gimmicks. 
   We stand at a unique point in history. Two months from now, we will move into a new century and, indeed, a new millennium. Instead of taking a ``get the appropriations bills done and get out of here approach,'' we should direct our sights to larger goals. We should be prepared to act boldly. We can seize upon this opportunity provided for us by a strong economy and an improved financial state of affairs and embark on a fiscal agenda that will pay rich dividends for decades to come. 
   Our predecessors, at the beginning of the 19th and 20th centuries, faced similar opportunities and challenges. Each chose the bold approach. The Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the building of the Panama Canal in 1904 were emblematic of a proud, vigorous, bold new nation at the beginning of a new century. Although controversial in their day, the Louisiana Purchase and the building of the Panama Canal are examples of courageous endeavors that have stood the test of time. 
   The question facing this Congress is whether we will live up to the example of the 19th century and the 20th century as we commence the 21st century or whether we will squat in the narrow, visionless box built for parliamentary pygmies. Will we validate Proverbs 19:18, wherein it says: ``Where there is no vision, the people perish''? 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. WYDEN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I ask that we return to morning business for a period of 30 minutes for remarks on the Labor-HHS conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, the business before the Senate will soon be the conference report on Labor Department and Health and Human Services and Education appropriations bill. We are now considering various trade measures. Since we will be taking up the D.C./Labor-HHS conference report tomorrow, I appreciate the Presiding Officer's generosity in allowing me to discuss this very important piece of legislation. 
   I think it is fair to describe that one night within the last few weeks, through back-door negotiations, various members of the Senate and House of Representatives Appropriations Committees crafted the conference reports that we have before us today. The end result was that a very large elephant, weighing $313.6 billion, The Labor/HHS conference report, being placed upon the back of a relatively small and not particularly compliant ant weighing $429 million, the District of Columbia's Appropriations bill. 
   Out of that marriage of elephant and ant, we now have before the Senate the  conference report on the District of Columbia with the enormous addition of a $313 billion of Labor-HHS ``rider''. 
   Unfortunately, when these bizarre marriages occur, the public interest is not necessarily served. This parliamentary tactic has stolen from Members of the Senate the right to offer motions instructing the conferees on how we believe they should proceed in conference. We have also lost the right to challenge the existence of authorizing legislation on an appropriations bill during the process of negotiation between the two Houses. There will be no opportunity for Congress or the President to independently consider the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill. While one is an elephant and one is an ant, they are both important and deserve separate and distinct consideration. 
   There is not the opportunity to protest the inclusion of items which were not included in either the Senate or the House bill, or were so altered as to be unrecognizable. This bill is purely the creation of that late-night negotiation. 
   This lack of democracy has allowed the will of a small minority to triumph on a variety of provisions of great importance. I will take the opportunity this afternoon to focus on only two of the issues that are a part of this marriage of elephant and ant: First, the proposal to terminate competitive bidding for Medicare's payment of health maintenance organizations' reimbursement; and, second, preventing the Congress from fully funding the Social Service Block Grant Program. 
   Let me begin the discussion with the absconding of funds from two congressionally authorized competitive pricing demonstrations. This takes us back 2 years to 1997 during the consideration of the Balanced Budget Act. Both Houses of Congress voted to create demonstration projects based upon community participation in an attempt to learn more about how HMOs, which provided services to Medicare beneficiaries, could be priced; that is, how the amount of that reimbursement from the Federal Government could be determined by competitive bidding. 
   In order to understand what this issue is about, I am afraid some discussion of how HMOs currently are priced when they provide services for a Medicare beneficiary is required. In a simplified form, the way in which an HMO receives reimbursement when it provides funds to a Medicare beneficiary is a function of how much is paid within that county for fee-for-service payments. While there are some modifications to this overly broad statement, basically if, let us say, in a particular county the average payment for a fee-for-service Medicare patient is $5,000, then the HMO is reimbursed at, more or less, 95 percent of that level, or $4,500. There is some blending of the national fee-for-service rate and the local fee-for-service rate, but as of today, and in the past and in the immediate future, the description I have given is essentially an accurate representation. 
   What has been the result of this reliance on a percentage of fee-for-service within a narrow, local area on the amount that HMOs are reimbursed? It has resulted the fact that in many areas of your State and mine, where fee-for-service charges are relatively low--that is particularly true in rural areas--there are no HMOs. Why? Because HMOs cannot economically justify operating with the reimbursement levels they would get based on 95 percent of those relatively low fees for service. 
   On the other hand, in some areas which have very high fees for service--for instance, an area that has a large tertiary hospital, particularly one associated with a medical school where costs tend to be very high because of the nature of the service they provide--that community will have a high fee-for-service rate. Therefore, 95 percent of that high level will result in high reimbursement levels for HMOs. So, you have not just one HMO, but typically many HMOs that want to compete to get that fixed-formula-based percentage of fee-for-service reimbursement. 
   The purpose of the 1997 action of the Congress was to try a different model; to not rely on this central planning use of fee-for-service but rather go out and test the marketplace. What will the market in a rural area say is called for to engage managed care as an option for Medicare beneficiaries? What is the appropriate level of HMO reimbursement in a large urban area with high fee-for-service costs? That was the purpose of this competitive bidding demonstration project. 
   The Balanced Budget Act, in conjunction with the Health Care Financing Agency, set up a structure which included area advisory committees. These committees consisted of health plans, providers, and beneficiary representatives. It was decided the two communities in which demonstrations would take place were Kansas City and Phoenix. The function of the area advisory committees was to recommend how to best implement the competitive pricing demonstrations in these two communities. 
   Unfortunately, in the bill that will be before us tomorrow, the bill that the conference has reported as the funding for 
   Departments of Labor, HHS, and the District of Columbia, all funding for these two demonstrations in Kansas City and Phoenix has been removed, removed by those who do not want to find out if there is a means to use the competitiveness of the marketplace to arrive at what should be the appropriate reimbursement level for health maintenance organizations. 
   Experience has shown us in other areas of the Medicare system that there is the potential for preserving high levels of quality and saving money by using the dynamism of the marketplace as determined by competitive bidding. Let me use an example from my own State. One of the other provisions in that 1997 Balanced Budget Act was to set up competitive bidding on the Part B, or hospital component of Medicare, as it related to a variety of items, including durable medical equipment. The demonstration for durable medical equipment was settled to be in Lakeland, FL. 
   In its first year, this project has substantially reduced the amount Medicare pays for the five products that were included in the demonstration, and in that one community has saved Medicare approximately $1 million. 
   What are the areas that are being competitively bid? Let me say that these products, durable medical equipment, for most of America today are the subject of a price list. It would be as if you suddenly needed, let's say, a wheelchair--you had broken your leg and you had to have a wheelchair for temporary use--and the way you would pay for that wheelchair, or decide what was the appropriate rental for the wheelchair, was to have Government give you a price list and say this is what thou shalt pay to purchase or lease that wheelchair. That is exactly what Medicare does today for a list of hundreds of durable medical equipment items. So we are going to find out, was there a different way to establish what those prices should be? Was there a means by which we could use the marketplace to set the price? That was the purpose of the demonstration in Lakeland, FL. 
   What results? Competitive pricing has reduced the price of oxygen supplies and equipment by 17.5 percent over what was on that price list, for exactly the same oxygen supplies and equipment. Competitive bidding for hospital beds and ancillary hospital items has been reduced by 29.8 percent by competitive bidding as opposed to the price list. For enteral nutrition, where a person is taking his or her nutrition through intravenous means rather than more normal oral means, the price of that has been reduced by 29.2 percent as a result of competition, rather than using the price list. Surgical dressings have been reduced by 12.9 percent, and urological supplies by 20 percent. All of these savings were accomplished by the use of competitive bidding as opposed to relying on almost a Soviet system of a prescribed price list. 
   It is estimated, if this Lakeland demonstration were to be applied on a nationwide basis and applied to a broader range of items that are just as susceptible to competitive bidding as the five which were selected for the demonstration in Lakeland, we could save the Medicare programs over $100 million a year. The Medicare program is a big program, but even for that big program, even for the Federal Government, saving $100 million a year is an important achievement. 
   It is interesting that, while we are about to take a vote on whether we  should terminate even a demonstration on competitive bidding to establish the appropriate price for HMO reimbursement, we are applying competitive bidding in other areas. We are using the competitive marketplace, rather than centralized planning, to determine what is a fair price. 
   For example: In 1998, Congress reformed the means by which national parks reimbursed their concessionaires. To put it more accurately, the concessionaires paid for the privilege of operating within one of our national parks. Previously, prior to 1998, concessionaires had a preferential right of renewal allowing them to match any other offers, thus eliminating competition. 
   You can imagine if, Madam President, there were a firm which had a concession in a national park in your beautiful State of Maine and they knew that in order to keep that concession, all they had to do was match any other competitor who would deign to try to take the concession. That would not encourage very many people to go to the effort of offering a competitive bid because they knew all the incumbent concessionaire had to do was just match their best price and they would continue to have the concession. 
   In 1998, we changed the system. We said we would go to an open, competitive bidding process and let those who could offer the highest quality and the best return to the park system be the concessionaires. 
   Yesterday, I had the privilege of visiting Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico. It exemplified the concession's contract law's positive effect on the national parks system. The new concessionaire improved the quality of products and provided such things as handicapped access to facilities that had not been available previously. 
   We can anticipate that the rates of return to the Government at Bandelier and other national parks will increase because we have a good example at Yosemite National Park. At Yosemite, the application of competitive bidding resulted in almost a 15-percent increase in the rate of return to the Government of the lease of their various concession facilities. 
   I commend Senator CRAIG THOMAS, our colleague, who was the leader in assuring this movement towards a fair price and quality goods and services for the users of our national parks. Unfortunately, the zeroing out of funds for competitive bidding demonstrations in Phoenix and Kansas City, as this conference report on the Labor-HHS/District of Columbia appropriations will do--it ensures that we will never know if we can achieve similar savings in the Medicare+Choice Program; that is, we can never know there will be a better, fairer way of reimbursing health maintenance organizations, which provide services to Medicare beneficiaries than what we are getting today through this percentage of fee-for-service formula. 
   Here is a riddle for the Senate to answer: Why would the appropriators eliminate funding for a program that saves money without harming quality, that gives us the opportunity to learn if there is a free-enterprise approach to reimbursing HMOs as opposed to a socialist approach? 
   Madam President, it does not take a Sherlock Holmes to solve this mystery. 
   Chapter 1 of our mystery: It is July, 1999. The United States spends a full week debating managed care reform. The end result of this debate is vapid, weak legislation that impacts less than one-third of all Americans whose health care is covered by HMOs. It has weak standards on issues such as emergency room, access to specialists, a woman's right to use an OB/GYN as a primary physician, the right to continue to use a doctor if an HMO changes its plan. The legislation the Senate passed earlier this summer also had very limited enforcement and no right to sue. 
   It is interesting that the House of Representatives has written a different chapter with a much stronger and more effective bill of patients' rights when they are members of a health maintenance organization. 
   We have a second chapter in our book. The Senate is about to eliminate two demonstration projects that will allow us learn whether the marketplace might be an appropriate determinant of how Medicare HMOs should be reimbursed. Chapter 2 continues with the 
   Senate Finance Committee designing a bill to give funds back to providers who have made the case they have been negatively, excessively impacted by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. It is the same Balanced Budget Act that weaves its way through this whole volume. 
   What does the Senate Finance Committee decide to do? Nearly one-third of the money that will be provided back to physicians, hospitals, home health care agencies, skilled nursing facilities --a whole variety of medical providers--nearly one-third of the total money goes to the health maintenance organizations that provide services under the Medicare+Choice Program. 
   The irony is that only about 15 percent of the beneficiaries of Medicare receive their health care through a health maintenance organization. The remaining 85 percent of Medicare beneficiaries get their Medicare through the traditional fee-for-service system; that is, they make an unrestrained choice as to what doctor they want to see and then receive the services of that physician, and they, along with Medicare, then reimburse that physician. 
   The 85 percent of Medicare beneficiaries who use fee for service get only two-thirds of the additional payback money. Clearly, there is something fishy about the way these critical funds, intended to allow for the providers of health care to Medicare beneficiaries avoid draconian cuts in their service levels, were divided. Clearly, there is something amiss when one-third of the money in the Balanced Budget Act ``add back'' measure goes to one-sixth of the Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Adding to this peculiar situation is the Congressional Budget Office's estimate that up until the end of this decade, the number of Medicare beneficiaries receiving their reimbursement through an HMO will still be less than the one-third of the total Medicare population. Yet, one-third of the money in the Balanced Budget Act ``add back'' bill is allocated to Medicare HMOs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Under the headline ``GOP Leaders Order Hyde To Kill Bill On Doctor Bargaining'':  
   Managed care lobby pushed to halt measure allowing doctors to negotiate with health plans. 
   After an intense lobbying campaign by managed care plans, House GOP leaders have killed for this year--at least--a bill that would allow doctors to bargain collectively with health plans. 
   The bill (H.R. 1304), sponsored by Tom Campbell, R-Calif., had been scheduled for a markup in the House Judiciary Committee Tuesday. But Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., on Monday asked committee Chairman Henry J. Hyde, R-Ill., to yank it. 
   ``It won't be dealt with this year,'' Hyde said. ``The leadership decided that they were involved with other health care issues and this was the.....one that broke the camel's back. It's extra weight on a complicated issue. They felt it was another area of focus they don't need right now.'' 
   On Oct. 7, after months of heated negotiations and debate, the House passed a broad patients' rights measure (H.R. 2723, later H.R. 2990) after voting down a much narrower package backed by Hastert. The issue has long been a thorn in the side of the GOP leadership, which favors allowing the marketplace--rather than government--to regulate managed care. 
   The Campbell bill would for the first time allow independent doctors who contract with health plans to bargain collectively on everything from fees to who determines the treatment a patient receives. Health insurance groups strongly oppose the bill, arguing that doctors would be able to fix prices and drive up health insurance premiums. Doctors, led by the American Medical Association, backed the measure. They say health plans are beginning to monopolize the patient market, and that doctors often have no choice but to sign restrictive contracts in order to stay in business. 
   Hyde said that, along with Hastert, rank-and-file members who had been contacted by the health insurance industry asked him to pull the bill.  
   The chairman said he still wants to pursue the issue in the future but could not say if he would ever mark up the Campbell bill. ``I don't know,'' he said. ``I'm interested in doing something with the difficult relationship between doctors, HMOs and insurers. I don't think the problem will go away, nor will our responsibility [to address it].''  
   We have had the HMO industry delude, almost to total lack of effectiveness, the Patients' Bill of Rights in the Senate. We have had the industry increase its reimbursement at twice the rate that fee-for-service medicine is having its reimbursement increased as a part of the Balanced Budget Act ``add-backs'' legislation that we will soon be considering. We have had the House kill a bill to allow doctors to collectively bargain when they negotiate with HMOs. And now, after the HMOs have said what they want is to have the marketplace, not Government, run their business, they seem to have said they do not want to participate in the competitive bidding process to determine their levels of reimbursement. It appears that they would rather rely on the socialist-based theory of percentage of fee-for-service cost. 
   The managed care industry has successfully used its influence to move forward one of its key policy objectives: To strengthen Medicare managed care at the expense of Medicare fee for service. You might think that my statement is extreme, but I assure you it is accurate. 
   The policy objective is very clear. Using the words of the former Speaker of the House, Speaker Newt Gingrich, which he used to describe his view of Medicare reform, I quote from an Associated Press article of July 30, 1996, in a speech given to the Health Insurance Association of America. This is what the Speaker said:  
   We don't get rid of it [Medicare] in round one because we don't think that's politically smart, and we don't think that's the right way to go through a transition. But we believe it [traditional Medicare] is going to wither on the vine.  
   ``Wither on the vine.'' 
   If you had to have a series of events that all had as their common objective diverting energy, resources, and attention away from the program where 85 percent of the Medicare beneficiaries receive their health care services towards the program where 15 percent receive their health care services--and nobody is estimating that within the next 10 years any more than 30 percent of the Medicare beneficiaries will receive their health care through HMOs--you couldn't have had a better strategy than the chapters that we have either written or are in the process of writing in the Congress in 1999. 
   On behalf of the 39 million Medicare beneficiaries in America today, and the millions more who will rely on the program tomorrow, I pledge to make certain that when Congress embarks upon true Medicare reform it will be focused on what is best for all beneficiaries, both fee-for-service and Medicare+ Choice participants alike. 
   We must reverse the course of this Congress. This Congress has shielded HMOs from patient protections, balanced negotiations with physicians, and competition in pricing. This Congress has rewarded HMOs with one-third of the additional money for one-sixth of the Medicare beneficiaries. And this Congress has refused to enhance the fee-for-service programs for 85 percent of the Medicare beneficiaries. 
   This Congress can begin to reverse this record by sustaining the President's veto of the outrage which describes itself as the Labor-HHS/District of Columbia appropriations bill. I am confident that the President will reject this legislation. We will have our next opportunity when we sustain his veto. 
   Madam President, having talked about just one of the outrages in this bill, let me turn to a second. That is the funding of the social services block grant. 
   On September 30, by a 57-39 vote, the Senate placed its strong bipartisan support behind the continued funding of the Social Services Block Grant Program at its authorized level of $2.38 billion. 
   The Social Services Block Grant allocates funds to States, enabling them to provide services to vulnerable, low-income children and elderly, disabled people. The Social Services Block Grant is a mandatory program established under Title XX of the Social Security Act. 
   The purpose of Title XX is to intervene with vulnerable populations before they reach the point of disability or other condition that might make them eligible for a Social Security entitlement program. 
   In 1996, the Senate Finance Committee joined the House Ways and Means Committee, and then the full Chambers, in promising that this program of social services block grants would be funded at the authorized level of $2.38 billion for the fiscal year 2000. In fact, we made a commitment to the States that the social services block grant would be guaranteed at the $2.38 billion annual level until welfare reform was fully completed in the year 2002. 
   When this commitment was recommended to be breached by the Senate version of the Labor-HHS appropriations bill, on September 30, the Senate stood up, and by that vote of 57-39 voted to restore full funding to comply with our commitment to our constituents and to the States. 
   Once again, the appropriators have nullified our vote. They have voided our promise to the States. In the conference report that will be before us, the Labor-HHS/District of Columbia appropriations bill, the Social Services Block Grant Program will be recommended for funding at $1.7 billion--over a half billion dollars below what is our authorized level, what is our commitment to the States. This figure is below what was approved by the Senate. This figure is also below the $1.9 billion that the House Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee approved for this program. 
   The raiding of the Title XX program should serve as an example of what can happen when a program is block granted. Our experience with the social services block grant should serve as a red flag as we structure other social services funding. 
   Those, for instance, who might succumb to the siren call of block grants for education should take note. A Federal program which serves a largely politically voiceless group of Americans, as Hubert Humphrey described, those who live in the dawn of life, our children, those who live in the twilight of life, our elderly, and those who live in the shadows of life, the disabled, these are the Americans who will be at risk, just as they are at risk today with the slashing of funding of the social services block grant. They will be at risk if we move towards the same pattern of funding for important national programs such as education. Because they will not have the HMOs' lobbyists, they will not have the PACs to represent their interests, to ensure they get their share when the Federal largess is divided, they are likely to get the scraps that are left over. 
   I urge the President of the United States to veto this legislative elephant which is squashing the ant. I urge that he veto the legislation that would fund the Departments of Labor and HHS, and the District of Columbia because we, the Congress, can do better. We need to be given the opportunity and the challenge to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today I introduce legislation which is entitled ``Transition to Teaching. This legislation starts from a personal experience. 
   Bill Aradine is a first-year teacher. He tells me he is greatly enjoying his experience in the classroom. He has 150 students from the 9th to the 12th grade at North Marion High School near Ocala, FL. Mr. Aradine teaches automobile mechanics. He has sparked an interest in students that may lead many of them to rewarding, lucrative, and challenging careers. I know Mr. Aradine because I did one of my workdays--in fact, my most recent workday--at North Marion High School. It is the story I learned that day at North Marion that brings me to the Senate floor today. 
   Up to this point, it may not seem that unusual of a story--a beginning teacher facing new challenges--but Mr. Aradine brings something else to his first year at North Marion High School. He brings a previous career of 11 years on-the-job experience. He has years of experience in a local Chevrolet car dealership. He is now starting a second career as a teacher. The students look to him with a different perspective. When he says, you will need to know this if you are going to get the job done, they know he knows what he is talking about. Having just come directly from the industry, he teaches at the cutting edge. 
   The information he brings to his students is what he was actually doing in the workplace not that long ago. Mr. Aradine is also a bridge. He is a bridge between North Marion High School students and the world of employment. He offers them advice, counsel, and real-life connections to future jobs. 
   Mr. Aradine learned of the opening at the high school when one of the automobile mechanic's teachers retired. He applied for the job. He was allowed to obtain a temporary teaching certificate based on his prior work experience. He will take four courses over the next 3 years to obtain a permanent teaching certificate. North Marion High School principal, Walter Miller, could not be more pleased with the situation. Mr. Aradine is doing an excellent job with the students. North Marion High School was able to fill a vacancy and ease its teacher shortage. 
   More and more schools will be turning to teachers who are in their second career. The Washington Post of October 4 of this year remarks on the trend of professionals entering teaching after years of work in a nonacademic job. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Every August and September, another school year begins. Thousands of young Americans enter the classroom. Almost every year at this time, I hear from school districts throughout Florida about teacher shortages. What did I hear in 1999? I heard from Miami Dade that they had hired 1,700 new teachers for the 1999 school year but still had 300 vacancies to fill on the first day of classes. Hillsborough County, Tampa, hired 1,493 teachers for the start of the school year. They were still 238 teachers short when the first school bell rang. Orange County, Orlando, needed 1,300 teachers for the new year and still had 50 vacancies a month after school started. 
   These concerns will only get worse. Forty percent of current schoolteachers are over the age of 50. They are nearing retirement. Who will be the future role models to the next generation of Americans? Who will take their places in the classroom? The importance of having high quality teachers in sufficient numbers is crucial, if we are to look at the challenges facing education in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Dr. McCabe raises several crucial demographic and societal changes that will affect American education in the coming years. Let me mention two of these issues. 
   First, the American family structure will change in the coming decades. Half of all children will spend some of their childhood in single-parent homes and are more likely to live in poverty. 
   Of the children who grow up in a nuclear family, very often both of their parents will work; thus, they will be less able to be involved in the child's school and schoolwork. That is what is happening to American families. That is what will increasingly in the family environment from which American schoolchildren will enter the classroom. But as they exit the classroom, societal expectations for students upon graduation will be greater. 
   In the middle of this century, 50 years ago, 20 percent of American jobs required a specific skill. At the end of this century, today, 80 percent of jobs need skilled workers. Thus, the American student will need to graduate from school better prepared for the high-tech world than ever before; but single-parent families and dual-income families, in general, will face more challenges in being able to be actively involved in the support of that child's education. 
   These challenges, and others, will face the American educational system. I rise today to take one step forward in easing the nationwide teacher shortage and offering challenging new opportunities for America's professional working people by introducing the Transition to Teaching Act of 1999. 
   Senator KENNEDY is to be commended for his work in including similar language in the Elementary and Secondary Education Reauthorization Bill. Representatives JIM DAVIS of Florida and TIM ROEMER of Indiana have taken the lead in the House of Representatives on this issue. 
   We have a very successful model on which to build the Transition to Teaching program. Since 1994, the Troops to Teachers program has brought more than 3,000 retired military personnel to our classrooms, particularly as math, science, and technology teachers. 
   Schools in my State of Florida have benefitted by more than 270 individuals who have successfully completed the Troops to Teachers program, and are bringing their life experience to the classroom today. 
   Troops to Teachers, and now Transition to Teaching, assist in overcoming two of the main obstacles that mid-career professionals face when they want to become a teacher. It is not impossible to do this now, as Mr. Aradine has shown; but this legislation will assist with and simplify the process. 
   The first issue that is addressed involves teaching colleges within universities. These teaching colleges are often set up for the traditional students in their early twenties, right out of high school, just starting their new lives. 
   These programs are generally taken over a multiyear period as a full-time college student. This legislation encourages teaching colleges to develop curriculum suitable for an individual who already has many years of experience. These programs are more streamlined, more flexible in school hours, and recognize that the mid-career student brings more life and work experience than does a traditional college student. 
   By developing such programs, teaching colleges can maintain high standards, but allow a mid-career worker, making the change 
   into teaching to become certified in a more efficient, streamlined manner. 
   Teaching colleges are also asked to develop programs to maintain contact with and support for these new teachers during at least their first year in the classroom. 
   Second, Transition to Teaching will assist teachers who come to the profession in mid-career in a very tangible way. 
   Grants will be awarded, up to $5,000 per participant, to offset the costs of becoming a certified teacher. Why are these grants appropriate? The traditional college student comes directly from a family setting. They typically have limited personal or family financial obligations. In contrast, people like Mr. Aradine have their own families, spouses, children, and they have a house and car payments. They have the kind of financial obligations that would be typical of any mid-career adult. They would need this financial assistance in order to give them that little degree of support and help that will allow them to make this transition to become a certified teacher and move into a second career in the classroom. 
   Thus, this legislation deals with two of the biggest obstacles to becoming a teacher in mid-career. The certification process is streamlined, and stipends are provided to offset the cost of this additional education. 
   The success can be highlighted best with a personal story--a personal story, not like Mr. Aradine who is in his first year, but the personal story of a man who is already well into his second career. Ronald Dyches grew up in a military family. His father was a noncommissioned officer. When Mr. Dyches attended college at Sam Houston State, he followed in his family's military footsteps and enrolled in the ROTC. 
   When he graduated, he became a commissioned officer in the U.S. Army. For more than 21 years, Mr. Dyches served our Nation as an Army intelligence officer, living throughout the United States and Europe. He feels the highlight of his career were the three years he spent on General Norman Schwartzkopf's staff at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa during the Gulf war. Mr. Dyches retired from the Army in 1995. But you can say his service to the country did not end. 
   With the help of the Troops to Teachers program, Mr. Dyches began a second career teaching social studies at Bloomingdale High School in Brandon, FL. He has been on the faculty at Bloomingdale since 1995--and this year he is teaching three periods of Honors World History and two periods of an elective class that he created: The History of the Vietnam War. 
   Mr. Dyches' military experiences are an integral part of his classroom teaching. In addition to developing new elective courses, such as the one on the Vietnam war, Mr. Dyches uses the wealth of knowledge acquired living and working twelve years in Europe with the military to enliven his World History class. With his background, he offers advice and counsel to students including those considering a military career or wishing to attend one of the Nation's service academies. 
   Mr. Dyches feels that this classroom experience would not have been possible without the Troops to Teachers program. It rekindled his interest in teaching from his college days, and it opened doors to certification that would have been closed to him. 
   In some sense, Troops to Teachers helps make ``perfect marriages.''  Bloomingdale High School needed a social studies teacher. Ron Dyches needed a challenging, rewarding second 
   career. He, the school, and all of Bloomingdale's students have benefited from this perfect marriage. 
   Other professionals, other workers, should be allowed to follow in the footsteps of the retired military personnel like Mr. Dyches, who have set such a shining example for us and the students that they serve. 
   Law enforcement, attorneys, business leaders, scientists, entrepreneurs, technically competent men and women, and others in the private sector should be encouraged to share their wisdom with students. 
   As I mentioned, under the Transition to Teaching Act, colleges and universities would be awarded grants to design educational programs modeled after Troops to Teachers to train mid-career professionals, and others, to become teachers. 
   Individuals would be eligible for grants of up to $5,000 to pay for the courses and training they need to become qualified teachers. 
   In return for the training, the new teachers would agree to teach in low-income schools, determined by the percentage of title I students in the school population, for three years. 
   This legislation is timely. We are on the cusp of retirement of millions of baby boomers. 
   By encouraging recent retirees, or mid-career professionals, to become certified through Transition To Teaching and spend a few years in the classroom, we will bring the life skills of experienced professionals to our youngest citizens. 
   I encourage my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Our nation's children deserve our best efforts to provide them with a world class education that they will need in the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send to the desk the legislation and ask for its appropriate reference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I have a question of the leader. Will the majority leader agree to delete No. 279 from the list of nominations? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. In light of that, Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have a statement to make on legislation which I will introduce this evening. But prior to that, I express my gratitude for the eloquence of the remarks the Senator from Utah has just delivered on behalf of our friend, John Chafee1. Many of us have attempted to reach into our souls and express the depth of our affection for this special man. The Senator from Utah has succeeded in that effort. I commend him and thank him for sharing those emotions. 
   Mr. President, I have a second item before I turn to my remarks for purposes of an introduction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have exercised the prerogative, which is each Senator's, to place a hold, which means legislation cannot be brought up without at least referring to and discussing it with the Senator who has placed the hold. In this case, I did so on the legislation which is commonly referred to as the tax extender bill. This is legislation which extends the life of a number of current tax provisions. 
   As a member of the Finance Committee, I support this legislation and I will vote for this legislation. I am going to announce publicly that I am withdrawing the hold I had on that legislation. I will give a brief explanation. 
   First, I am doing so because I think, in the spirit of comity and the effort to get important work accomplished during what I hope will be the relatively few days remaining in this first session of the 106th Congress, it is appropriate to allow the Senate to take up this legislation without further delay insofar as it is the product of my action. 
   Second, an explanation of why I imposed the hold in the first instance: I supported this legislation. I supported it in large part because it meets what I think is a fundamental test--it is paid for. This legislation contains increases in certain taxes sufficient to cover the cost of the tax relief which will be made available through the extenders. Not to do that would have had the effect of dipping into the surplus. Now that means dipping into the Social Security surplus, since we have already spent the non-Social Security surplus. This bill meets the test of being fiscally prudent. 
   However, I alert the Senate that there was another bill, which in many ways was a companion of the tax extender legislation, voted out of the Finance Committee almost simultaneously with the tax extender legislation. That is legislation which will provide for increases in the reimbursement level to providers of various health care services under the Medicare program. Again, I support the concept that there is a justifiable case for increasing those reimbursements. We have done so, in this legislation that the Senate will possibly soon be considering, in the amount of approximately $1 billion in fiscal year 2000, $5 billion in fiscal year 2001, and an additional $9 billion over the next 8 years, for a total of $15 billion. 
   My criticism of that legislation is, unlike the tax extender bill, it is not paid for. Therefore, we will be asked to vote for $15 billion of additional spending, which will have to come directly out of the Social Security surplus. It had been my intention, by holding the tax extender bill, to propose an amendment to the tax extender bill which would have been the additional reimbursement for Medicare providers but with an appropriate offset so that there would be $15 billion either of reduced spending elsewhere or additional taxes to pay for the additional reimbursement for Medicare providers. It had been my thought that by merging these two bills together and using this as an opportunity to provide the offsets for the Medicare reimbursement increases, we would be able to send to the House of Representatives legislation which it might both consider and favorably vote upon. 
   It now appears that, in fact, we are not going to take up the increased reimbursement to Medicare providers, at least not take it up as separate legislation. Rather, it will be either delayed to some future date or taken up as part of the likely end-of-session major financial compromise. 
   It appears as if there is no purpose to be gained by holding the tax extender bill for purposes of offering an amendment to a bill which is not going to be taken up anyway. For those somewhat convoluted reasons, but reasons which I hope will be satisfactory to the Members of the body, my colleagues, I am announcing that I am lifting the hold on the tax extender bill. It is my hope that we will soon pass it and that it will serve as a model for other legislation when we decide that it is important enough to extend a tax benefit to a certain class of taxpayers, or important enough to increase spending in the form of additional appropriations to certain citizens of this country, that we will have the fortitude to make the judgment as to how we are going to pay for either those reductions in revenue from one source or increase in appropriations to another. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today, I am pleased to introduce The Food Stamp Outreach and Research for Kids Act of 1999. 
   Along with my House colleagues Representatives WILLIAM COYNE and SANDER LEVIN, I created this common sense piece of legislation with the goal of guarding children and their families against hunger. 
   In 1998, over 14 million children lived in households that could not afford to buy food. 
   That was an increase of almost 4 million children from 1997. 
   At the same time, the number of poor children not getting Food Stamps reached its highest level in a decade. 
   My bill, the Food Stamp Outreach for Kids Act of 1999 (the FORK Act), would help us to give children who are currently going hungry the Food Stamps that they need. 
   Some time ago, food banks in Florida started telling me that the number of people coming to them for assistance was increasing, and that if demand continued at the current rate, they might run out of food. 
   This crisis was not specific to Florida, Congressman COYNE and Congressman LEVIN were hearing the same concerns from food banks in Pennsylvania and Michigan. 
   When we asked them whom the new people coming to the food banks were, we were told that they were mostly low-income working families. 
   When the food banks screened these families using eligibility guidelines, it looked as if the majority of the new people coming to the food banks for assistance should have been receiving food stamps but were not. 
   The General Accounting Office (GAO) researched this issue, and in their July, 1999 report found that while a number of people who have left the Food Stamp program because of the improved economy, economic growth alone does not explain the drop in Food Stamp participation. 
   The GAO found that demand for emergency and supplemental food was increasing and that some state agencies were not correctly following federal laws regarding Food Stamp benefits. 
   Perhaps most disturbing of all, the GAO found that almost half of the people who have lost Food Stamps since 1996 are children. 
   The FORK Act is designed to address GAO's findings and recommendations to make certain that children and families in this country are not going hungry. 
   The FORK Act would provide grant funding to food banks, schools, health clinics, local governments and other entities that interact with working families. The grants would allow those organizations to develop and expand innovative approaches to Food Stamp outreach, which would help the Food and Nutrition Service enroll many of the eligible families that currently go hungry. 
   The FORK Act would require the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) to conduct onsite inspections of state Food Stamp programs to identify barriers to enrollment and work with states to develop corrective action plans. 
   The FORK Act would authorize FNS to conduct research, which will help it to improve access, formulate nutrition policy and measure program impacts and integrity. 
   The FORK Act would require the Departments of Agriculture and Health and Human Services to work with state Temporary Assistance for Children and Families (TANF) programs to train caseworkers and make sure that prospective and former TANF recipients are property informed about Food Stamp eligibility. 
   Finally the FORK Act would authorize private-public partnerships to expand nutrition education programs. 
   Mr. President, I do not believe that there is a member in this Congress who ever intended for children to go hungry because their parents left welfare to go to work. 
   Now that we know it is happening, we must act quickly to make certain that the Food Stamp program works for children and families in need. 
   I hope that my Senate colleagues will join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I wish to recognize our Presiding Officer who is also one of the stalwart advocates of this reform in agricultural farm labor, as well as the Senator from Oregon who has given such leadership on this issue. 
   In my opinion, those voices who you anticipate will decry the proposals we are making have to carry the burden of defending the status quo. In my opinion, that is an impossible defense. What has the status quo led to in this country? It has led to over 600,000 people who pick the fruits and vegetables upon which American families depend, upon which much of our agricultural economy is relying--600,000-plus of those persons ranging between a third and a half of all of the migrant workers in the country are illegal. They are here without documents. They are here without any legal status. Can we call the current system a humane system when it puts 600,000 people in the shadows of our society because they are without legal status or legal protection? I think not. 
   It is also a system which denies benefits, ironically, to U.S. citizens and U.S. legal permanent residents who work as migrants in American agriculture, which we make available to non-U.S. citizens who come here under a temporary work visa that we call a H-2A visa. For instance, we provide transportation assistance to foreign visa workers that we do not provide to U.S. citizens. We provide housing benefits to foreign workers that we do not provide to U.S. citizens. We provide even a higher wage rate, a higher base salary to foreign visa workers than we do to U.S. citizens who work as migrant workers in American agriculture. 
   We also have a system which is--to say antiquated is to give it a status that is beyond justification. We are using a system that is bureaucratic, that does not apply contemporary methods of technology, communication, which, while it approves some 90 percent of the petitions that are filed to make it possible for those non-U.S.  visa workers to come into the United States, oftentimes the delay in getting that ultimate approval is so extended that by the time the approval arrives the crops have already rotted in the field. 
   Anyone who wishes to attack our ideas, I think, has the burden of either attempting to defend a clearly--not broken but smashed status quo, and then to come forward with their own ideas. A few days ago, Senator WYDEN and the Presiding Officer and myself offered an amendment to a Department of Labor appropriations bill in which we directed that the administration should come forward with its ideas as to how to correct the broken status quo of migrant farm labor in America. We look forward to receiving that response. We have been asking for that response for the better part of 2 to 3 years. 
   I hope now that we are on the verge of introducing legislation, we will see an engagement by all the parties who have professed an interest in this issue so we can get their ideas. We do not believe, as thoughtful as we hope this legislation will be seen, that it came down from the mountain on plates of stone. It is the product of our best human effort and we invite others who have their ideas to participate in this process. But I believe we can all start from the fundamental position that the status quo is inhumane, illegal, and unacceptable to the United States of America as a great nation entering the 21st century. 
   The legislation we are introducing--and we are actually introducing two pieces of legislation--the first is the Agricultural Job Opportunity Benefits and Security Act of 1999, which we intend to acronym into AG-JOBS, which is the comprehensive bill which includes all the elements the Presiding Officer outlined in his introductory remarks. We will then introduce a second bill which will be called the Farm Worker Adjustment Act of 1999, which will include only those provisions that relate to the adjustment of status by the some 600,000 undocumented aliens who are currently in the United States. 
   We invite our colleagues to consider both of these pieces of legislation. We hope they would be inclined to cosponsor both of these pieces of legislation. 
   What would be the consequence of passage of the legislation that we introduce this evening? What would be the consequences, first, for farm workers? Farm workers would receive better wages. Instead of having as the base the minimum wage, the base, as the Presiding Officer indicated, would be the greater of the minimum wage or the adverse wage rate plus 5 percent. In my State of Florida, the current calculation of the adverse wage rate plus 5 percent would be approximately $7.45, as compared to the current minimum wage of $5.15. 
   Second, domestic farm workers, U.S. citizens, and permanent residents, as well as those who would have the temporary work permits under the adjustment of status legislation, would all be entitled to housing, either housing onsite or, if it were determined by the Governor of the State there was adequate housing in the vicinity of the agricultural work site, it could be a housing allowance, a voucher which would allow the farm worker to select their own places to live. 
   It would also provide for the first time for domestic workers, citizens, permanent residents, and temporary work permit holders, access to a transportation allowance. If they had to go more than 100 miles to get from one job to the next, they would be entitled to compensation for their transportation. They would also receive the benefits of some modern technology. Just as we currently have a worker registry system for much of nonagricultural employment in America, this would provide a computer registry for agricultural workers where they can indicate: I am prepared to work in the following crops. I am prepared to work in the following locations and during the following time periods of the year. They would be permanently registered, so when a farmer was looking for workers who met those criteria, he would find this employee's name and a means by which to access that potential worker. 
   We would increase worker protection. Farm workers would now be covered by the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act. We would not have this shadow workforce of 600,000 people without legal protection. 
   There would be stricter penalties for employers who failed to follow the law. Employers could be barred from the H-2A program, including a permanent bar for violations of the rights of workers. 
   The legal status would be available to all of the persons. They would either be working as a citizen, a permanent resident, a holder of a temporary work permit, or an H-2A visa. But our goal would be to create a situation, both legally and economically, in which all of the persons picking the fruits and vegetables in America's fields would be legal. 
   How would the farmers benefit? The farmers would have access to this efficient, modern, streamlined register as a means of determining who is available to do the work that I need. 
   They would have assurance that all of their workers were legal. We have had situations in the last few months in which there were raids on fields--Vidalia onion fields in Georgia, fruit fields in the Pacific Northwest where persons who could not show they had documents--and many could not--were arrested, where the farmer was put into a situation that his livelihood, his crop for the year was about to be lost because he would not have the people necessary to harvest the food. 
   We would also provide to the farmer the assurance that there would be a streamlined means by which, if necessary, they could access non-U.S. workers to assure they had a full complement of workers to carry out the task. 
   Mr. President, you have stated with force and eloquence the rationale for this legislation and what we hope to accomplish. I hope in the vein within which you entered this to ask our colleagues to carefully consider this legislation, particularly in the context of the unacceptable status quo. We look forward to engaging with their ideas and the ideas of others who have an interest in this issue so that this session of Congress will have as one of its achievements the closure of a chapter of inhumane abuse of hundreds of thousands of people and a denial to American agriculture of what it wants--a legal, humanely treated agricultural workforce to pick the fruits and vegetables upon which our Nation depends. 
   I join with you and our colleagues as we start this effort this evening and will shortly be sending to the desk the legislation on the adjustment of status of agricultural workers. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Reserving the right to object. I say to my colleague from Idaho, I believe the junior Senator from Washington also wishes to make a statement after the Senator from Oregon. And I wish to make a statement  after the junior Senator from Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to honor two visionary statesmen--President Theodore Roosevelt and Senator John Chafee. Today, October 27, 1999, we celebrate what would have been President Theodore Roosevelt's 141st birthday. Last Friday, we celebrated John Chafee's 77th--and much to our sadness his last. 
   Working at opposite ends of the 20th century, these two outstanding leaders contributed greatly to the cause of preserving our precious natural resources for this and especially for future generations. 
   President Roosevelt was born on October 27, 1858, in New York City. He is remembered as one of our finest Presidents. He is honored as such by being the only 20th century President to join Presidents Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln at Mount Rushmore. 
   In 1901, after the assassination of President McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt became America's youngest President. As a child, Roosevelt was faced with poor health and asthma. To escape the pollution of New York City, Roosevelt's father would often take him to Long Island for extended visits. It was there that Roosevelt began his lifelong devotion to the outdoors and to vigorous exercise. His dedication to the ``strenuous life'' was a hallmark of his career. 
   In 1884, his first wife, Alice Lee Roosevelt, and his mother died on the same day. Roosevelt spent much of the next two years on his ranch, the Elkhorn, located in the Badlands of the Dakota Territory. 
   Today, a portion of this ranch is included in the national park named in his honor--the Theodore Roosevelt National Park in North Dakota. History shows Roosevelt to be a true visionary as one reviews his many accomplishments. The Panama Canal, one of the world's engineering marvels, would not have been complete without President Roosevelt's tenacious leadership. He is remembered by business and labor as a ``trust buster'' who spearheaded the dissolution of a large railroad monopoly in the Northwest using the Sherman Antitrust Act. 
   In 1905, Roosevelt won the Nobel Peace Prize for mediating an end to the Russo-Japanese War. 
   But perhaps his greatest contribution to future generations of Americans was his passionate advocacy of conservationism. The history of our Nation is marked by activism on public lands issues. The beginning of the 19th century was marked by President Thomas Jefferson's purchase of the Louisiana Territory. That one purchase added almost 530 million acres to the United States. The Louisiana Purchase changed America from an eastern coastal Nation to a continental empire. 
   Roosevelt set the tone for public lands issues at the beginning of the 20th century. His words and his actions created a new call to America's environmental ethic. Theodore Roosevelt said, ``We must ask ourselves if we are leaving for future generations an environment that is as good, or better, than what we found.'' 
   He lived up to his challenge. Mr. President, listen to what Theodore Roosevelt contributed to the public lands legacy of the United States. During his period in the White House, from 1901 to 1909, Theodore Roosevelt designated 150 national forests; the first 51 Federal bird reservations; 5 national parks; the first 18 national monuments; the first 4 national game preserves; and the first 21 reclamation projects. 
   Theodore Roosevelt also established the National Wildlife Refuge System, beginning with Pelican Island in Florida, which was designated in 1903. Together, these projects equaled Federal protection for almost 230 million acres--a land area equivalent to that of all the east coast States from Maine to Florida and just under one-half of the area of the Louisiana Purchase. 
   Theodore Roosevelt's contributions to the public land trust cannot be equaled. Perhaps even greater was his contagious passion for the ethic of conservation that he managed to instill for the first time in America's consciousness, the idea of conservation and environmental protection as goals worthy of pursuit. 
   Mr. President, Senator John Chafee was a leader in the Theodore Roosevelt model. Senator Chafee was a major participant in every piece of environmental legislation that passed the Congress since the early 1980s. He authored the Superfund program, created in 1980 to direct and fund the cleanup of hazardous waste dump sites and leaking underground storage tanks. 
   In 1982, he sponsored the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, a law that resulted in the preservation of thousands of acres of coastline throughout the Nation. 
   He led major reform of the Clean Water Act in 1986, introducing more thorough controls on industrial pollution and a new emphasis on non-point source pollution. 
   He created the National Estuary Program to protect coastal resources and  steered the bill to enactment over a Presidential veto in 1987. 
   In the 1980s, Senator Chafee turned his attention to the air, leading efforts to adopt the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, taking steps to control acid rain and toxic chemical emissions. 
   In 1993, Senator Chafee wrote the law establishing the nation's first indoor air hazard research and response program. 
   With his clear head, methodical mind, and ability to broker a compromise, Senator Chafee led us through these legislative battles to today's result--a legal infrastructure of environmental law that ensures our own health and safety and preserves the public land trust established by Theodore Roosevelt. 
   On this day, as we celebrate the 141st anniversary of the birth of Theodore Roosevelt and pay tribute to the work of Senator John Chafee, we must ask ourselves, ``Can we meet the challenge posed by Theodore Roosevelt and leave an environment for future generations that is as good or better than it was when we found it?'' Are we worthy inheritors of the legacy of John Chafee? 
   Senator Chafee leaves us with his model to follow as a member of this body which took Roosevelt's challenge to heart and led the Environment and Public Works Committee to take actions on the environment that have left us better off than when he arrived in the Senate. 
   Sadly, I argue that we, the Senate, are struggling with a backlog of neglect and are ill prepared to assure the well being of one of the most prominent examples of America's environmental heritage: our national parks. 
   In 1916, Congress created the National Park Service ``..... to conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wildlife therein and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations.'' 
   My friend and colleague, the Presiding Officer, and I have the privilege of living in two of our States which have been especially blessed by God and blessed by preceding generations willing to take the steps to protect the beauties of the Yellowstone, or of an Everglades. The challenge that we have is worthy of the standard that has been set by Theodore Roosevelt and the others who have made it possible for us to enjoy those wonders of nature. 
   Today, the ``unimpaired'' status of our national parks is at-risk. 
   On April 22, 1999, the National Parks and Conservation Association identified this year's ten-most endangered parks. 
   In his opening remarks, Mr. Tom Kiernan, president of the NPCA, stated that these parks were chosen not because they are the only parks with endangered resources, but because they demonstrate the resource damages that are occurring at all of our parks. 
   These parks demonstrate the breadth of the threats facing our park system. 
   For example, Chaco Culture National Historical Park in Chaco Canyon, New Mexico, contains the remains of thirteen major structures that represent the highest point of Pueblo pre-Columbian civilization. 
   What is the status of this great world treasure? 
   In the words of the NPCA, it is ``......falling victim to time and neglect.'' Weather damage, inadequate preservation, neglected maintenance, tourism impacts, and potential resource development on adjacent lands threaten the long-term life of these structures. 
   Another example: All of the parks in the Florida Everglades region were included on the list of the most endangered. 
   In this area, decades of manipulation of the water system led to loss of significant quantities of Florida's water supply to tide each day, a 90-percent decline in the wading bird population, invasion of non-native plants and animals, and shrinking wildlife habitat. 
   Mr. President, you will be particularly interested and saddened by what the National Park and Conservation Association calls Yellowstone National Park, the ``poster child for the neglect that has marred our national parks.'' 
   We have all heard Senator THOMAS and others speak about the degradation of the sewage handling and treatment system at Yellowstone National Park--a situation that has caused spills into Yellowstone Lake and nearby meadows, sending more than 225,000 gallons of sewage into Yellowstone's waterways, threatening the water quality of this resource. 
   I recently had an opportunity to visit yet another example of neglect, Ellis Island National Monument in New York Harbor. The state of the historical resources in this important part of the history and heritage of America--the space through which millions of people first gained their exposure and appreciation and commitment to America--is unconscionable. 
   While there are a handful of buildings that have been restored to their previous level of majesty, over 30 buildings where immigrants came to the United States lie abandoned, in disrepair, and deteriorating. 
   Particularly troubling was damage to the hospital buildings, which, when restored, will be a valuable tool in recreating an important era in our nation's history. 
   The hospital on Ellis Island provided care for immigrants who were detained temporarily for medical reasons. 
   This marked one of our country's earliest efforts at providing for public health and disease control and prevention. 
   Broken windows and leaky roofs have allowed the elements to wreak havoc on these buildings and trees are sprouting from the floorboards of what was once an immigrant dormitory. 
   Lead paint flakes fall from the walls and rats scurry down historic hallways. 
   There are efforts being made to block further deterioration, but the existing damage is extensive. 
   Small scale actions to prevent further destruction are wholly inadequate in the face of the extensive damage to these buildings which are so important to our nation's history. 
   Mr. President, the sad circumstances of Chaco Canyon, of the Everglades, of Yellowstone, of Ellis Island, the sad circumstances of these few examples by no means mean that they are the extent of the challenge of our national parks. 
   In fact, estimates of the maintenance backlog at our national parks reach as high as $3.5 billion. The National Park Service has now developed a 5-year plan to meet this requirement based on its ability to execute funds and the priorities of the National Park System. 
   This year the National Park Service requested $194 million in order to commence the process of meeting this accumulated backlog of maintenance needs. 
   I am pleased to say, Mr. President, that I believe Members of Congress should take some pride in the fact that as a result of this year's appropriations process the House and Senate have modified the National Park Service request of $194 million and increased it to $224.5 million. This is a very commendable step forward. 
   I am proud of the actions of the appropriations committees. I know that there is likely to be further executive and legislative considerations of the budget of the National Park Service before we complete our action. But I hope that we will continue to maintain this level of commitment to meeting the backlog of urgent maintenance needs in our national parks. 
   Although these actions demonstrate a willingness to work to meet the needs of the National Park Service, I believe we cannot adequately address the extent of needs, including the needs of natural resources within the Park System and the external threats to those natural resources with a piecemeal approach. 
   There is a limit to what we can do with the tools we have today. The Senate is working to fund 21st century needs for construction and natural resource preservation using a 19th century, year-to-year annual appropriations process. What the National Park Service needs is a sustained, reliable funding source that will allow it to develop intelligent plans based on a prioritization of needs with confidence that the funds will be available when they are necessary to complete those plans. This approach will allow common sense to prevail when projects are prioritized for funding. 
   Let me use the example which is closest to me. That is the effort about to be launched for restoration of the Florida Everglades. We are now over half a century into man's major manipulation of the Florida Everglades, a  manipulation which has had many positive effects in terms of protecting millions of people from the ravages of flooding but has also very fundamentally changed the character of the Florida Everglades. The Corps of Engineers has presented to the Congress its recommendation of how to remedy the scars that have been imposed on the Everglades. If authorized by this Congress, the Everglades restoration plan of the Corps of Engineers will be the most extensive restoration of an environmental system ever undertaken in our Nation's history and, in all probability, in the history of the world. It will be an effort at the beginning of the 21st century of the scale, boldness, and challenge that 
    the Panama Canal was at the beginning of the 20th century. 
   This is also going to be a project which will challenge America financially. The estimate is that over the 20 years to complete this project, the total cost will be approximately $8 billion. The State of Florida will pay half; the Federal Government will pay half. The math indicates that for each year for the next 20 years, the average demand on Federal resources for this restoration project will be approximately $200 million. 
   I think it is critical before we begin this restoration we have the maximum assurance of the resources necessary to complete the restoration. I use the analogy of open-heart surgery. If one is going to open up a system and take a great knife and begin to cleave the changes that have occurred in the Everglades over the last 50 years so that at the conclusion of this operation we will have a healthier, more natural system, it is incumbent upon those who start the surgery to be assured they will have the resources to complete the operation. Failure to have those resources at any stage throughout this 20-year process will certainly result in the death of the patient. 
   We have taken some steps to attempt to assure a more reliable source of funds for the National Park Service. Your colleague, Senator THOMAS, led the way to reform with his landmark legislation on the National Park Service called Vision 2000. This legislation adopted for the first time both concessions reform and science-based decisionmaking on resource needs within the Park Service. We took a big step forward last year with the extension of the fee demonstration program. The fee demonstration program allows individual parks to charge entrance fees and to use a portion of the proceeds for maintenance backlog and natural resource projects. This action generated about $100 million annually for the Park System. 
   Now it is time to take the next step. Earlier this year with Senators REID and my colleague, Senator MACK, we introduced legislation entitled ``The National Park Preservation Act.'' This legislation would provide dedicated funding to the National Park Service to restore and conserve the natural resources within our Park System. This legislation seeks to address the long-term efforts required to truly restore and protect our natural, cultural, and historic resources within the National Park Service. 
   This legislation would allocate funds derived from the use of a nonrenewable resource, our offshore drilling in the outer continental shelf, to recover the American resource of oil and gas. We would then convert those funds derived from the Federal royalty on offshore oil and gas drilling for a program of restoration and preservation of our natural, cultural, and historic resources within the National Park Service. These funds provided by our bill would assure that each year the National Park Service would have the resources it needed to restore and prevent damages to its resources. 
   At the beginning of this century, at a time of relative tranquility, President Theodore Roosevelt managed to instill a nation with a tradition of conservation with this simple challenge: Can we leave this world a better place for future generations? 
   At the end of this century, we honor Senator John Chafee who leaves a legacy of a legal infrastructure that provides a foundation upon which we can continue to meet President Theodore Roosevelt's challenge. Let us keep the vision of these great leaders in mind as we embark together on our efforts to protect 
    the National Park System into the new century. 
   In the words of President Theodore Roosevelt: Nothing short of defending the country during wartime compares in importance with the great central task of leaving this land even a better land for our descendents than it is for us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am prepared to yield time to the Senator if he is prepared to speak at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator from Minnesota yield? I had indicated to our colleague, the Senator from Louisiana, who wishes to make a memorial statement for our colleague, Senator Chafee, that he would have an opportunity to do so at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Louisiana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Illinois. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, before yielding time to the Senator from Minnesota, I will take a few moments to also share some thoughts about our departed colleague, John Chafee. 
   I had the great privilege of serving with John Chafee for nearly 13 years. We served together on the Environment and Public Works Committee and on the Finance Committee and had many opportunities to work closely together. 
   John Chafee was the kind of public servant whom citizens in a democracy hope to have representing them. He represented a small State, both geographically and relatively, in population. It is the kind of State where the citizens have an intimate relationship with their elected representatives; they know them personally; they can evaluate their character; they are not dependent on a flickering 30-second television ad to give them information about the people who are seeking their vote. 
   Election after election, in a largely Democratic State, Republican John Chafee received the vote of the people of the State of Rhode Island, a great tribute to the fundamental character of the citizens of that State and the man who gave his life in the service of that State. 
   John Chafee's life was epitomized by the word ``service.'' As Governor, as Secretary of the Navy, as a Senator, he displayed wisdom, dedication, and patriotism. Those qualities had been molded in the flames of World War II and the Korean war, where he served in some of the most intense combat. I imagine when some people suggested that a vote in the Senate was a testing vote, a difficult vote, he might have put that in the context of what he experienced in his young adult life at Guadalcanal. 
   As a colleague, I particularly admired the thoughtful, pragmatic manner in which he approached his duties in the Senate. He was a mentor. I remember the first committee meeting in which I participated, which was a markup, a meeting in which legislation was before the Environment and Public Works Committee for action and then recommendation to the full Senate. It was the 1987 version of the transportation bill, always a controversial matter. 
   I had come to that committee with a number of ideas from my previous State experience in Florida. I was enthusiastic and had some amendments to propose. On the first day of committee consideration of this legislation, I was fortunate to get two of my amendments adopted. After the vote on the second amendment, Senator Chafee, speaking across the committee room from his position on the Republican side, said to me: Good work; now I recommend you quit. 
   That was good advice for that day. 
   His willingness and distinctive ability to reach out to Senators with all points of view kept the Senate at the reasonable center of American politics. John Chafee was proud to be categorized a moderate, proud to assume the label of a centrist. He brought common sense to our deliberations. 
   The Senate has sometimes been analogized to ``the saucer,'' as in a cup and saucer. It is the place where the hot tea or coffee is poured so that it can be cooled before it is consumed. That was  one of the rationales of our Founding Fathers, establishing a bicameral legislature with one house being very close to the people and one house being, hopefully, a more deliberative body. John Chafee epitomized that concept of the place where the hot passions are reconciled. 
   John Chafee was also the kind of person who was more interested in results than with recognition. There probably are some pieces of legislation that are known as the Chafee act, or have his personal name associated with them. But, frankly, today, I cannot recall what that might be. I think John Chafee is perfectly satisfied with that. His goal was not to have his name etched in legislative marble or stone but, rather, to achieve a result. He was interested in building the edifice, not whose name was on the cornerstone of the edifice. That was the kind of human being John Chafee was. 
   As a result of his commitment to results rather than recognition, in fact, some of the Senate's most memorable achievements in recent years bear his imprint. Expanded environmental protections, a balanced budget, and an improved transportation system were the results of his leadership and influence. 
   As with all of us, John Chafee was a good friend, a trusted colleague. John will be sorely missed. He leaves a legacy that adds distinction to this body and to the title of public servant. We all send our deepest sympathy and best wishes that solace will be found in the great accomplishments of this truly great man, and that his family and the thousands of persons fortunate enough to call John Chafee a friend will find a solace and a capacity to deal with the grief that we all suffer today. 
   Mr. President, I yield such time as he may wish to the Senator from Minnesota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this sad and somber day, we recall our wonderful friend John Chafee and begin to appreciate how much he will be missed. We extend our love and respect to his family. I suspect John would like us to move forward with the business of the Senate. As Senator BYRD has just said, he was a crusty New Englander, and I believe John would be very happy with that description. One of the many admirable traits of crusty New Englanders is that they like to get down to business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, one of the last conversations I had with John  Chafee just a few days ago was about the legislation we are now considering. John Chafee, as in all things, was a commonsense pragmatist. I do not know how he would have voted on these measures, but I think he would have been appealed to by the practical rationale for the United States moving forward in the way this legislation directs us. 
   This legislation, which was a product of the Committee on Finance, on which Senator Chafee served with such distinction, a committee in which he had voted for this legislation as a member of the committee during the time it was being considered there, I believe embodies many of the principles for which John Chafee stood. I want to particularly talk about one component of this legislation, and that is the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement Act component. 
   Since the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, our Caribbean and Central American neighbors have been at a competitive disadvantage. There is now a benefit of in the range of 5 percent to 10 percent, having the identical production factories located in Mexico as opposed to in Central America or Caribbean nations which are members of the Caribbean Basin Initiative. It has been stated we should have dealt with this issue when the North American Free Trade Agreement was first adopted. Unfortunately, we did not. Today, we have the opportunity to begin the consideration of the restoration of parity and balance within our region. 
   I thank Senator Lott for his support in bringing this important legislation to the floor. 
   I also thank Senator ROTH and Senator MOYNIHAN for the leadership which they have provided through the consideration of this legislation in the Senate Finance Committee. 
   Over the last 5 years, I have worked to enhance and build upon our existing trade relationship with our neighbors in the Caribbean Basin region. On February 3 of this year, in response to the overwhelming devastation and destruction caused first by Hurricane Georges and then by Hurricane Mitch, I introduced the Central American and Caribbean Relief Act. This bill represented a broad and comprehensive strategy to provide immediate disaster relief, economic and infrastructure recovery, and long-term trade enhancement that would benefit both the United States and the countries in the region. 
   On March 23, 1999, we passed legislation that provided immediate disaster relief to the countries in the region that were impacted by Hurricanes Georges and Mitch. This legislation included $41 million of debt relief. We wiped out all of the bilateral debt of these countries to the United States and contributed to a Central American relief fund which will be beneficial in terms of reducing other forms of indebtedness of those countries that were so ravaged by the hurricanes. 
   I am pleased that now we are considering a bill that includes many of the long-term trade enhancement provisions that were part of the Central American and Caribbean Relief Act. Enacting this legislation is critical to the continued economic growth and health of our Nation and the economic health of our closest neighbors in the Caribbean and Latin America. It is also in the national security interest of the United States of America. 
   Let me review what are some of the compelling reasons for the adoption of this legislation. 
   First, humanitarian. I have made three trips to Central America and the Caribbean since the devastation of Hurricane Georges and Hurricane Mitch. As a Floridian, I have had some exposure to the destruction that hurricanes can inflict upon a community. I can say I have seen nothing the likes of which I saw in Honduras after Hurricane Mitch. I know that many of my colleagues have also seen the destruction caused by these hurricanes. These two destructive storms caused a level of death and devastation not seen in the Western Hemisphere in over 200 years. 
   We have all heard of the tremendous loss of life, the economic disruption, the human suffering caused by these hurricanes. As a neighbor, a friend, and a great Nation, the United States has both a history and a current obligation of response with assistance to those in need, especially those nations and those peoples who are our closest neighbors. Providing enhanced trade benefits will be a significant part of that humanitarian response. It will allow nations that had major parts of their economies, particularly agricultural economies, devastated by these hurricanes to begin to rebuild on a more diversified and stable economic basis. 
   A second reason to pass this legislation is economic. Caribbean Basin enhancements are in the best economic interest of the United States. Experience shows us that providing trade benefits to the Caribbean Basin is good business for the United States. Following the enactment of the Caribbean Basin Initiative in 1983, our trade position with the region has improved from a trade deficit of $3 billion with the Caribbean Basin, which we suffered in 1983, to today approaching a $3.5 
   billion trade surplus. These are not only good neighbors, but they are good trading partners. They are trading partners who, on a per capita basis, have consistently outpaced all other regions of the world in terms of the U.S. trade surplus. 
   Between 1983 and 1998, U.S. exports to the region increased fourfold, while total imports into the U.S. region grew by less than 20 percent. In fact, since 1995, U.S. exports to the CBI countries have increased by approximately 32 percent. There are over 58 million consumers in the 24 countries represented by the CBI region. Seventy percent of their nonpetroleum imports come from the United States. 
   Let me repeat that: 58 million consumers in 24 countries close to the United States; 70 percent of their nonpetroleum imports come from the United States. Yet there is another reason to strengthen the Caribbean economies, and that is the importance of the stability of our closest neighbors. 
   When the CBI bill was adopted in 1983, the Caribbean Basin, particularly Central America, was in flames with violent conflicts and rampant drug trafficking. The primary goal of the initial CBI legislation was to stabilize the region by building stronger, more diverse economies. These economies were seen as a critical element in supporting democratic governments. 
   Our national security and our continued interest in reducing the level of flow of illegal drugs and illegal immigrants into the United States was also at stake in the stability of the region. 
   According to the Department of State's Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, increased law enforcement efforts along the Southwest border of the United States have again encouraged drug traffickers to reactivate their old, well-established smuggling routes in the Caribbean and Central America. Recent cocaine seizures in the regions bear this out. In 1998, authorities in the Dominican Republic seized 2.4 metric tons of cocaine. During the same period, Guatemalan authorities seized 9.2 metric tons of cocaine, and Panamanian authorities seized 11.8 metric tons of cocaine. Cocaine seizures in the Bahamas during 1998 totaled 3.7 metric tons, the highest level in that country since 1992, while at the same time an estimated 54 metric tons of cocaine flowed through Haiti. 
   Experience tells us the vast majority of this cocaine was destined for the United States of America. Without assistance to restart the regional economy, without assistance to make it possible for people to provide for their families, the nations in this region will be even more susceptible to the scourge of drug trafficking. The people of this region must have opportunities in the legal economy so they may feed their families and resist the financial temptations associated with drug trafficking. 
   Failing to enact CBI enhancements will increase the pressure for illegal immigration into the United States. The people of the CBI region must have the real opportunity at home so they are not forced to turn to illegal immigration to find employment and feed their families. 
   The painful lessons of the 1980s need not be repeated as we move into the new century. We can act--we must act--to prevent it. 
   Today, I want to focus on yet another reason why passing the Caribbean Basin Initiative enhancement legislation is so critical. The reason can best be demonstrated by looking at these two shirts. 
   This golf shirt is made in  China. It is made from fabric that was grown by Chinese farmers, woven in Chinese textile mills. This shirt costs approximately $4.75 to produce. This shirt was made by a Caribbean Basin country, similar plant. It was made with fabric that was grown on U.S. farms, and it was spun in U.S. textile mills. This shirt costs approximately $5 to produce. Both of these shirts were imported into the United States for sale at U.S. retail stores. There is no significant difference between these shirts, save the location, China and Nicaragua, where they were manufactured, and where the components were grown and spun into textile--China, the United States of America. Each of these shirts sells for approximately $19. That is the price the law of supply and demand has set upon these items. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to be allowed to present these shirts before the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. One might ask the question of basic economics. If the Chinese shirt is identical to the Nicaraguan shirt, if the Chinese cotton that is spun into this shirt is to the consumer essentially the same as the American cotton, which is spun into the Nicaraguan-assembled shirt, and yet the Chinese shirt costs 5 percent less to produce, sells for the same price, why is it there are any shirts being produced in Nicaragua or in the other Caribbean Basin countries? 
   Well, there are several reasons why there is a market for the more-expensive-to-produce CBI shirt. Transportation costs between the Caribbean Basin and the United States are less than the transportation costs between China and the United States. The proximity of the Caribbean Basin to the United States means that transit time for textile products manufactured in the CBI region and destined for sale in the United States is significantly less than transit time for Chinese products. This is a particularly important factor in the apparel industry with its rapid style changes. But neither of those are the most important reason. 
   The most significant reason why there is a market for the Caribbean-assembled shirt, the shirt which assembles U.S. cotton which is milled in U.S. textile mills, the most important is because there is a limitation on the number of these shirts which can be imported from China. 
   In 1999, the import quota for Chinese-manufactured shirts, such as the one I hold today, the exact number of these shirts which can be imported from China to the United States is 2,336,946 dozen per year. Imports of the shirt manufactured in Nicaragua, as well as other Caribbean Basin countries, where U.S.-grown and processed cotton is the basis of manufacture, are not subject to quota restrictions. The difference represented by these two shirts will become much more apparent in the year 2005, a watershed year for the textile and apparel industry in the United States and the Caribbean Basin. 
   Why is 2005 such a significant date on the calendar? The import quotas which are currently applicable to textile products of most Asian nations, originally imposed under the Multi-Fiber Arrangement, now the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, will be phased out. There will no longer be, for most Asian nations, a quota limitation on the number of items such as this golf shirt which can be imported into the United States. At that time, textile production in the Caribbean Basin will be 
   placed in a distinct and growing disadvantage due to its higher cost of production. Disinvestment in the region is a real potential, reducing the incentive to use any material from U.S. textile mills or cotton grown in the United States. We face the prospect in the year 2005, with the lifting of the quotas, that the already 5-percent production cost advantage of Asian countries will expand, as they are able to spread their production cost over an unlimited number of apparel items to be imported into the United States. 
   The transportation and proximity advantages of the CBI country will not be able to sustain the raw economic advantage of the lower cost of production under current standards in Asia. 
   That is why passing CBI enhancement legislation now, in 1999, is critical to U.S. textile and yarn industries as well as to U.S. cotton growers. There are 64,000 U.S. textile workers who are dependent on this partnership of textile produced in the United States and assembled in the Caribbean for their jobs. Overall, 400,000 U.S. jobs are dependent upon textile exports to the CBI region. Last year, $4.5 billion worth of U.S. textile and apparel products were exported to the CBI region for assembly. Only by providing incentives for the development of stronger relationships with apparel manufacturers in our hemisphere will we have any chance of maintaining a market for U.S. cotton and textiles after the quotas are eliminated in 2005. 
   We must see this 5-year period as a period of challenge, a period in which we must increase the production competitiveness of U.S. textiles and Caribbean apparel. If we squander these 5 years, we face the very real prospect that we will be having a debate over nothing because, with the lifting of the quotas, there will be a strong incentive for this industry and the cotton farmers and the textile workers who support it to move from the Caribbean to Asia. 
   Developing strong relations with the countries in the Caribbean Basin, therefore, will not only promote political stability, will not only be in our humanitarian tradition, but will also be critical to the economic health of an important American industry. 
   An independent economic analysis funded by the Inter-American Development Bank and prepared by Professor Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda of the UCLA School of Public Policy and Social Research and Professor Robert K. McCleery of the Monterey Institute for International Studies makes just this point. The numbers are clear. 
   According to the American Apparel Manufacturers Association, without CBI enhancement, U.S. textile and agriculture will be adversely affected, and the U.S. economy will suffer. Currently, 50 percent of the apparel items consumed in the United States are manufactured with U.S. cotton. Industry estimates indicate that if we can increase the attractiveness of the Caribbean Basin as the place of assembly, that number will grow from 50 percent of U.S.-consumed apparel made with U.S. cotton to 70 percent. But if we fail to act, if we allow this partnership of U.S. textile and Caribbean assembly to wither, this number will drop to 30 percent. Without these enhancements, the U.S. cotton content will continue to decline, as apparel producers look to reduce costs and will move towards products made from cheaper labor and cheaper materials, primarily in Asia. 
   The impact of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing and year 2005 changes on man-made fiber industries will be comparable to the cotton situation. Without CBI enhancements, the U.S. man-made fiber content of imported apparel will continue to significantly decline. Without CBI legislation and in the face of year 2005 quota reductions, producers of man-made fibers will be inclined to relocate their production facilities in order to take advantage of lower wages and production costs. If we begin to work to establish stronger relationships with the nations of the Caribbean Basin, we will be able to provide incentives to sustain these industries in our own hemisphere. 
   Inherent in our CBI enhancement efforts are public and private investment incentives that will increase productivity and the quality of life within the region. We anticipate the textile industry will provide investment capital targeted for the construction and maintenance of schools, health and child care facilities, and technology enhancements to increase the productivity of both workers and existing manufacturing facilities. A well trained and healthy workforce will be more productive and efficient as Caribbean Basin producers compete for shares of the international textile market. 
   We have an unprecedented opportunity to strengthen our economic and national security through the enhancement of our trade relationship with our neighbors in the region. We must act prior to 2005 to build a dynamic, formidable Western Hemisphere trade alliance that encourages U.S. industry to invest in the region and to make commitment to rebuilding the industrial infrastructure in the region. 
   We are about to make a fundamental decision that will impact our closest neighbors, a decision that will impact a significant part of the economy of the United States. We can choose to create  a climate where the United States and our neighbors can be competitive into the 21st century or we can repeat the same turmoil of the 1980s. The choice is clear, it is stark, and I think it is beyond reasonable debate: Will we engage or will we retreat? 
   I urge you to extend this assistance to our neighbors to expand commerce and promote economic and political stability in the region. A primary beneficiary of that stability and expansion, a primary beneficiary of the new enhanced partnership between the United States and our neighbors in the Caribbean, will be the United States of America and its citizens. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, last night, surprisingly, our session adjourned early. This morning, even more surprisingly, we had no session at all. I am sad to say I am suspicious enough to think that the reason for the early adjournment yesterday and the absence of a session this morning was in order to reduce the opportunity for those such as myself who believe the issue we are debating is extremely fundamental, albeit also extremely sensitive to some, and therefore deserves a full discussion. By the shortening of the session yesterday and this morning's termination of the session, we lost several hours that would have otherwise been used to discuss this issue with our colleagues and with the American people. 
   But there were some benefits of the fact that we were not in session last evening and we were not in session this morning. And that is that some of us--I hope many of us--had an opportunity to see a repeat of a lecture that was given in 1995 by the eminent American historian, David McCullough. The lecture was given at the LBJ school at the University of Texas in Austin, TX. It was on a general topic of ``Character Above All''--``Character Above All.'' The topic of David McCullough's lecture was Harry Truman, a man who served in this Chamber with great distinction, presided over this Chamber briefly as Vice President of the United States, and then for the better part of 8 years served as President of the United States. 
   In his lecture, Mr. McCullough outlined a number of the characteristics of Harry Truman that made him such a distinguished figure. Mr. McCullough said that he was a better American than he was a President; that he was the embodiment of the essential value of his country--a man who had been raised in rural circumstances in Missouri, was not particularly well educated but, in fact, by his own efforts became classically educated, and then rose to the highest position in the land at a time of extreme national urgency during those critical years immediately after World War II. 
   Mr. McCullough said one of the characteristics of Harry Truman that made him such an effective American, an effective President, and revered citizen of this land was the fact that he had a set of core values. He knew who he was; he knew what he stood for; he did not have to wake up in the morning and put his finger in the air to find out which direction the wind was blowing. 
   I suggest that this debate today is essentially about character--individual character, yes, but more importantly the character of our Nation, the character of our democracy at the end of the 20th century. This debate is also about fundamental values. In what do we believe? What do we consider to be worthy of asking our fellow citizens and ourselves to sacrifice for? 
   Mr. McCullough talked about the fact that some Presidents who do not rise to the highest ranks of history's estimation were Presidents who were reluctant to ask the American people to do great things; that the Presidents who have challenged us to our fullest potential as a people have been those Presidents whom we mark as being our most revered. 
   I believe those comments about character, about values, about who we are as Americans, are significant in this debate this evening because we are talking about an issue that goes to the heart of our society, to the heart of the relationship between our society of America and the formal institution of government, which is the embodiment of our society. 
   I regret to say that today the abuses, the pernicious effects of money in our political system, represent a cancer, a cancer that is eating away at the heart of our values, the heart of our compact as Americans, the heart of our democracy. There are symptoms of this cancer. They include the increased feeling of disaffection between citizens and their government, a feeling that government is not a part of the ``we'' of which we all belong, but it is the ``they'' who are in confrontation with our own personal desire; and the low level of participation--not only the low level of participation in the act of voting, but also the low level of participation in people's willingness to serve in civic activities. 
   There was a long essay recently by a Harvard professor called ``Bowling Alone,'' about the fact that some of the institutions such as civic clubs and even sports organizations that have previously been a source of our national coherence have been increasingly shredded--low participation in people's willingness to accept positions of appointed responsibility, whether it is to the local PTA or to a governmental position, low participation of people in basic citizens' responsibilities such as jury duty, the very difficulty of our voluntary military to get an adequate number of persons to fill the ranks of our Army, Navy, and Air Force. 
   I was struck over the weekend, which, frankly, was spent in part watching some football games, at how many ads were run by our services to try to entice people to join the military. Those ads are themselves an indication of the difficulty of securing the kind of citizen participation associated with our democracy--the difficulty of attracting people to run for public office. Unfortunately, many people today are running away from public office. 
   I have had some considerable personal experience trying to encourage people who I thought had talent and integrity and would bring the experience of their lives to enhance public decisionmaking. How difficult it is to get those people to be willing to expose themselves to the kind of requirements of which the necessity to raise enormous amounts of money in a way that many people believe is degrading and requires them to pander makes seeking public office unattractive and in the final analysis is an option which is rejected. 
   Another example of the symptoms of this disease of cancer eating away at the heart of our democracy is the fact that now leading business executives are declaring that they are going to opt out of this current fundraising system, that they no longer want to pick up the phone, as one of those executives said while interviewed on television, 1,000 times for people soliciting funds, and not just soliciting what might be considered a reasonable contribution but soliciting for thousands of dollars of contributions over and over and over. And so they have opted out of the system. 
   Our efforts today are a part of a larger effort to try to restore those values  of community, those values of common sharing of the excitement, the responsibilities, and the obligations of a democratic society. 
   I hope that our efforts this week will be the beginning of true reform--reform that puts our political system back in the hands of the people. 
   The current version of Senator MCCAIN's and Senator FEINGOLD's legislation focuses on soft money. That is the money which comes into a political party that is not subject to the normal regulations and is unlimited in amount; with only minor manipulation soft money now can be used for almost any political purpose. Other than soft money which we typically refer to as hard money, the money that is regulated, the money that is limited in amount, the money that is subject to full reporting, there is virtually no difference in what today's soft money can be used for and what hard money can be used for. 
   We will have other amendments to consider in other areas of needed reform in our campaign finance system. All of these are important and worthy of debate. I hope we will keep our focus on what I suggest is the single most important issue we face: How can we eliminate from our system the amount that is coming from the enormous faucet of soft money? How can we begin to restore the American public's trust and confidence in their government? The public should be confident their elected representatives are voting on the basis of honestly held convictions, not on the basis of who has contributed tens or even hundreds of thousands of dollars to a political party, which money then is used to advance that particular public official's political candidacy. 
   While we cannot legislate the trust of the American people, we can plant the seeds of confidence by enacting real campaign finance reform. We must change the path we are on to regain the public's trust. It is critical the American people have trust in their public institutions to assure the proper functioning of a democracy. 
   In 1774, Edmund Burke was a member of the British Parliament. He had cast a vote which was contrary to the will of his constituency in the community of Bristol. They berated him for not having voted the way they--those who had elected him to the Parliament--would have preferred. Edmund Burke accepted the responsibility as a representative of the people to also become an educator of the people. He said to the electors of Bristol on November 3 of 1774, your representative owes you not his industry only but his judgment; and he betrays instead of serving you if he sacrifices it to your opinion. 
   The people of Bristol may have temporarily been disappointed that Edmund Burke did not do what they felt at the moment was their desire, but they were satisfied with the fact he was giving them more than just a weather vane of their opinion; rather, he was giving them the benefit of his informed judgment. 
   Today, unfortunately, many citizens believe their representatives follow neither their judgment nor popular opinion. Instead, they believe it is only the donors of huge amounts of soft money who hold the ear and the vote of their elected representatives. 
   We are not the first branch of government to recognize the connection between our actions and our appearances and the public's confidence and willingness to respect and legitimize our actions. For many years, the Judiciary has imposed upon itself strict rules governing the conduct of judges and lawyers. These rules do not exist because it is assumed judges will engage in unethical behavior; rather, it is to make certain they avoid even the appearance of impropriety. This self-regulation helps to maintain the public's confidence in the integrity of our judicial system. I suggest we in Congress have a similar obligation to maintain the public's confidence in the integrity of the legislative system. 
   Make no mistake, by any measure, the public's faith and confidence in the political process is eroding. Voter turnout is low, youth participation is low, institutional confidence is down. It is our obligation, as it is the obligation of the judicial branch, to take those steps that will restore the necessary public confidence. 
   It is no coincidence participation and trust in our governmental institutions are at a low point at the same time 
   the pursuit of campaign money by parties and politicians is at an all-time high. The crass chase for soft money by candidates of both parties is demeaning to the contributor; it is demeaning to the political recipient. I hope we can convince Members of both parties to put an end to it. The ever-increasing focus on fundraising has fundamentally and negatively changed the nature and the purpose of a congressional campaign. Our attention has been diverted from activities which are most beneficial to voters while we chase money. This need to amass a huge campaign war chest has led to the privatization of our traditionally public campaign process. 
   Political campaigns should belong to the people, not to the few who can participate in the financing of those campaigns. Over the past two decades, we have watched as campaigns have been transformed. What used to be an effort to meet and to listen to voters has now become an exercise in raising money for carefully crafted, frequently negative television commercials. Candidates now move from the television studio to record sound bites to the telephone to solicit campaign contributions to pay to air those sound bites. This transformation has narrowed the range of issues debated to those few who can be broadcast in a 30-second commercial. 
   What is lost? Lost is the interaction with voters. Lost are real debates about important substantive issues. Most important, what could be lost is our rich political heritage of a genuine dialog between candidates and voters. What had been a publicly owned campaign system has become a privately managed and staged event. The essential purpose of a political campaign is being subverted. Campaigns should provide the opportunity for two-way growth. Campaigns should prepare the candidate to represent and govern. Meeting the public, managing a campaign, a candidate learns important lessons crucial to government. A candidate learns important insights about the people he or she hopes to represent. 
   I have suggested to newspaper editorial boards when they interview persons who are seeking their endorsement for a campaign that there are a set of questions that ought to be asked of all candidates. One of those questions is, What have you learned since you announced your intention to seek public office? What have you learned since that date that will make you a better person should you be elected to office? Has the candidate, in fact, used the campaign as a learning, growing process? 
   Similarly, a political campaign and its interaction is important to the public. The observation of a candidate allows the voter to exercise a thoughtful judgment about who should be entrusted with the responsibility to govern. The shift from hard money to soft money has obliterated much of this relationship, the relationship of the candidate learning from the citizens, and the citizens' ability to assess the qualities of that candidate for public service. 
   The shift from hard money to soft money brings many adverse effects which will move our campaigns away from this two-way growth. Soft money has no standards. It is unlimited, unregulated, unreported. It turns candidates away from seeking contributions from traditional fundraising sources. The public loses accountability. 
   In relying on soft money, the candidate loses control of his or her campaign. There are not very many things that happen in a political campaign which are real. Most of the things that occur in a campaign are contrived or manipulated. One of the things that is real is how well a candidate runs their campaign. 
   That requires acts of judgment as to the people with whom you will associate yourself in the campaign, how well you allocate resources to pursue your campaign, the kinds of priorities and issues upon which you base your campaign. Those are all indicators of how the person, if elected to office, is likely to carry out his or her public responsibilities in exactly the same area. But the heavy reliance on soft money and the ability of the candidate to turn his campaign essentially over to those who will present him or her in the most favorable television light causes the candidate to lose that control of the campaign and the public  to lose the ability to use that campaign as an indicator of the individual's potential for public service. 
   It is not just the candidate who loses control. The public also loses control. It loses the opportunity to see the candidate exercise his or her personal judgment and thereby loses an important opportunity to evaluate the candidate as a potential public servant. 
   Finally, it is clear the distinction between the uses of hard and soft money have become pure sophistry. Experience has shown us that parties can advocate for a particular candidate with soft money every bit as effectively as they can with hard money. 
   Just a few hours ago, I saw a television commercial that was a commercial which was paid for by one of the campaign committees of the Congress. The commercial was an attack against a candidate alleging that candidate had broken the trust of the people by spending Social Security surpluses for other than intended Social Security purposes. The ad did not say: Vote against candidate and current Member of Congress X. But, rather, it ran that individual's name in the ad and said: Call him and tell him to stop raiding Social Security. 
   That is the kind of ad that is being bought and paid for and disseminated over the airways with this gush of soft money. It is an ad which is intended not to enlighten the public but to distort and manipulate the public. It is the type of negative ad which has contributed so substantially to the loss of public confidence in the political system. 
   The McCain-Feingold bill will not correct all the problems in our current system, but it will give us a good start towards that solution. Banning soft money, in my opinion, is the first step. Opponents of campaign reform argue that more money is good for democracy because it increases political speech. They also argue that even modest attempts at reform violate the first amendment's protection of free speech. 
   Now, presumably these opponents, who would argue any attempts at reform violate our protection of freedom of speech, do not favor any limits on campaign donations--no limits by non-U.S. persons, businesses, or even governments. We have had a lot of investigations, a lot of bemoaning the fact that non-U.S. persons, businesses, and possibly even non-U.S. governments have made contributions to American political campaigns and potentially were doing it in order to secure favor for their particular interest within the United States. The fact is, that is a very serious and, in my opinion, extremely noxious policy that allows non-U.S. persons, businesses, and even governments to involve themselves in U.S. political campaigns. But it is not illegal under the current law. The basis of the fact it is not illegal is this enormous loophole called soft money. 
   Citizens of another country, business interests of another country, governments, foreign governments, can all contribute to American political campaigns through the gaping loophole of soft money. Yet the opponents of this legislation that is before us tonight would argue that to close even those loopholes would constitute an undue infringement on freedom of speech. How absurd. 
   The arguments against reform confuse the quantity of speech with the quality of speech. We have a great deal of evidence that pouring more soft money into our campaigns has actually harmed our electoral process. Party soft money expenditures for the 1996 Presidential and congressional elections totaled $262 million. Let me repeat that. Soft money to American political parties in the 1996 Presidential and congressional elections totaled $262 million. That figure was three times the $86 million which was spent through soft money in the 1992 Presidential and congressional elections. 
   Despite this threefold increase in soft money between 1992 and 1996, were there evidences that it had a positive effect on American participation in government? Are there evidences, as is suggested by the concept that more money is better for the political process, that these expenditures were used to energize the spirit of democracy? Oh, no. Presidential election turnout in 1996 was the lowest in 72 years. 
   When you consider what a tripling of soft money that occurred between 1992 and 1996 did to voter turnout, you can shudder to think what will happen in next year's Presidential election when soft money expenditures are expected to double again, to over $500 million. Voters seem to recognize that, while money may buy an increase in the volume of speech, it does so at the price of the quality, the thoughtfulness of speech. 
   And the volume finally drowns out the quality, and the voter turns off and retreats from participation. 
   Removing unlimited, uncontrolled soft money from the process would not infringe on anyone's right to free speech. Contributions to candidates and parties would still be not only permitted but encouraged. They would simply have to be made according to the rules, rules already in place, rules that have been sanctioned by our judiciary as being consistent with first amendment freedom of speech privileges. 
   For years we have regulated hard money and union and corporate contributions. Indeed, some of these regulations have existed since the time of Theodore Roosevelt. These regulations are consistent with the first amendment. So is the proposed ban on soft money. I believe the actual quality of political speech will be enhanced with a prohibition on soft money. It provides ample avenues for contributing to political candidates, for candidates communicating with and learning from voters, and for raising the credibility of the tattered system by which we elect public officials. We can have all of those benefits by using the system we thought we had, and that is the system that provides for controlled, limited, fully reported campaign contributions. 
   Reform will encourage more voters to participate because they will have renewed hope that their individual voices are being heard, that their individual voices will make a difference. 
   Our colleagues in the House of Representatives have acted. Many States have acted. The public is now rightfully waiting for us in this Chamber which has been described as the greatest deliberative body on Earth. Our people are waiting for us to act to put our campaign system back in order. The system is broken. We have the power, we have the obligation, to fix it. The McCain-Feingold bill is a significant step in that direction. I am proud to support it. I encourage my colleagues to do likewise. 
   Tomorrow will be the testing hour. We are asked to vote on what appears to be a procedural matter, to proceed to another piece of legislation, legislation that has considerable support, legislation that this Senate has considered on a number of occasions in recent years, legislation which this Senate will undoubtedly consider during this session of Congress. 
   Make no mistake about it, the effect of voting tomorrow morning to proceed to another piece of legislation is a vote to strike a stake in the heart of even the beginning of campaign finance reform in America because if we adopt this motion to leave this legislation and turn to another subject matter, I sadly suggest we will never return again to campaign finance reform. We will have done a disservice to the American people. 
   I hope that we will rise to the standard of character above all, that we will demonstrate we are worthy of our previous colleagues in this Senate, such as Senator and later President Harry S. Truman, that we know who we are, we know what our responsibilities are to the American people, and we are prepared to discharge those responsibilities. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I rise to speak, as I did yesterday, on the latest appropriations conference report. Yesterday I expressed my concern about the Agriculture conference report, which contained within it $8.7 billion of designated emergency spending. Adding that $8.7 billion to $7 billion, which has previously been designated as an emergency, we have now spent almost $16 billion of the $21 billion that was originally estimated to be available as the non-Social Security surplus. 
   We are clearly on the path of exhausting the non-Social Security surplus in a series of incremental decisions, without focusing on how we might use this opportunity of significant surplus for fundamental national policy issues. This legislation contains an additional expenditure of emergency funds in the amount of $7.2 billion. With the adoption of this conference report, we will have fully exhausted the non-Social Security surplus and probably will also begin to lap into the Social Security surplus. 
   Mr. President, there was an interesting quotation in the press within the last 2 weeks by a leading figure in the German Government in 1991. He talked about missed opportunities and said that Germany, in 1991, as part of reunification, had a national opportunity to deal with some of their fundamental problems which would have built a stronger nation for the 21st century. But he went on to say: We promised the nation we could do reunification without pain; therefore, we were unable or unwilling to ask the country to take those steps that would have built a stronger Germany for the 21st century. 
   I regretfully say that I believe we are ``in 1991''; we are not in Germany, we are in the United States of America, and we are missing a similar opportunity to take some important steps that will strengthen our Nation, for precisely the same reason: We are unwilling to tell the American people the truth of what we are about, what the consequences are in terms of missed opportunities, and we are attempting to hide all of this under a cascading number of gimmicks and unique accounting. In my judgment, this Defense appropriations conference report adds to that book another significant chapter which will make it more difficult for us to deal with Social Security solvency, Medicare reform, and debt reduction--three priority issues challenging America. 
   What are some of the items in this Defense appropriations bill that raise those concerns? I have mentioned $7.2 billion listed as an emergency. What are the emergencies? Things such as routine operation and maintenance. Since the Bush administration, we have operated under a definition of what an emergency is which states that an emergency shall be ``spending which is necessary, sudden, urgent, unforeseen, and not permanent.'' Those five standards were developed by President Bush, not the current administration. Those are the five standards to which this Congress has adhered. How can anyone declare that operation and maintenance in the Department of Defense is not permanent, is unforeseen, and is a sudden and urgent condition? 
   Beyond that, we are also slowing payments to contractors in order to move $1.2 billion of those costs out of the fiscal year in which we are currently operating into fiscal year 2001. We are advance appropriating $1.8 billion for the same purpose. We are offsetting $2.6 billion of this bill's cost by assuming the same level of proceeds from spectrum auction sales. This bill relies upon a direction that has been given to CBO to change the manner in which CBO estimates outlays so that $10.5 billion will occur after fiscal year 2000. 
   I am about to leave for a meeting of the Finance Committee, and there is going to be an effort made there to overturn a congressional statute by directing the administration, through the Department of Health and Human Services, to change the method by which Medicare providers are compensated in order to increase spending to those providers by an excess of $5 billion--a violation of congressional statute, a timidity of Congress to deal with changing that statute, with the consequence that we are going to take over $5 billion off budget but directly out of Social Security surplus. 
   So I regret, as my colleague from Arizona did, I will have to vote ``no'' on this legislation. But while recognizing the extreme importance of the national defense that is funded through this legislation, I believe it is also important that we exercise fiscal discipline and that we not commit ourselves to a pattern of accounting and budgetary devices which obscures the reality of what we are doing, which denies us the opportunity to use this rare opportunity of surplus to build a stronger America for the 21st century, and which I think fails to face the reality of what our long-term commitments are going to have to be to secure our national defense. 
   So I regret my inability to support this legislation. I hope this will be a brief period in our American fiscal policy history and that before we complete the calendar year 1999, we will have an opportunity to revisit these issues with that higher standard of directness to the American people and a greater sense of importance of our protecting this rare period of fiscal strength and surplus, and we have to assure that America deals with its priorities as we enter the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to offer a tribute to a great Floridian and a great American: Mr. E. William ``Bill'' Crotty of Florida, the United States Ambassador to Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean. 
   Bill Crotty died Sunday, October 10, 1999, at Shands Teaching Hospital in Gainesville, Florida. Funeral mass and burial will take place today in Bill's hometown of Daytona Beach, Florida. 
   Among Bill Crotty's many friends in this world, some of his closest friends are members of this body. On behalf of them and the United States Senate, we offer our heart-felt sympathy to Bill's wife, Valerie, and to his large and loving family. 
   During his rich and full life, Bill Crotty was many things: a five-sport athlete, lawyer, proud parent of seven children, successful businessman, Irish story-teller and political and civic activist. Above all, Bill Crotty was an ambassador. His smile, his laugh, his easy manner and his sense of humor were lifelong gifts to the countless individuals he encountered during his 68 years on this earth. 
   Bill Crotty was an ambassador for his alma mater--Dartmouth College in his native New England. He was an ambassador for his adopted home of Daytona Beach, and its Bethune-Cookman College and International Speedway. The local Chamber of Commerce declared him Citizen of the Year in 1992. 
   Late in life, Bill Crotty was officially certified as an ambassador. Last year, after Senate confirmation, he reported to our embassy in Barbados. He and Valerie have done an outstanding job representing the people of the United States in this important neighboring region. One of their efforts has been to help restore the historic home in Barbados where young George Washington once lived with his older brother. 
   Like me, Bill Crotty was born during the Great Depression. Demographers note that America's birth rate declined during the Depression, prompting some social commentators to remark that the parents of those born during this troubled era were passionate or crazy or both. 
   Bill was born with few material possessions. His strong family, his sharp mind, and agile body propelled him to top educational institutions and success in life. 
   Most importantly, Bill Crotty was my friend. I fondly recall repeat visits to his home in Daytona Beach, and his tradition of preparing bountiful breakfasts to start the day. In addition to his cooking skills, Bill was rightfully proud of his agility on the tennis court. 
   Mr. President, we mourn the loss of our friend, Ambassador Crotty, while recognizing and celebrating his many achievements in Daytona Beach, in Florida, in America, and throughout our hemisphere. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to ask the manager of the bill a question relative to fiscal provisions within this bill. The context of these questions is when we commenced this session of Congress, the Congressional Budget Office estimated the non-Social Security surplus for fiscal year 2000 would be approximately $21 billion. Thus far, we have committed $7 billion of that to the 1999 supplemental appropriations bills through the designation of various items as emergencies. 
   This bill has additional items designated as emergencies totaling $8.7 billion. The effect of this, plus prior action, would be to reduce the estimated non-Social Security surplus to $5.3 billion. 
   We also have in the offing other emergency provisions which will total approximately $15 billion and thus eliminate the non-Social Security surplus and place us in a position of having to do what we have all committed not to do, which is to dip into the Social Security surplus by in excess of $10 billion. 
   In that context, I want to ask the manager a short list of questions, and I say to my good friend, the Senator from Mississippi, I commend him for the work he has done this year and in previous years on behalf of American agriculture. I know the frugality with which he approaches his task. He has been faced, as has happened in the past, with an unusual set of circumstances affecting American agriculture and thus the necessity for emergency spending. 
   What is the level of emergency spending included in this conference committee report? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. How much has been designated for emergency spending in the Senate bill which this body passed? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. And how much had been approved by the House in its original version of the Agriculture appropriations bill? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Senator. The emergency spending items which were included in the fiscal year 2000 conference report, what is their degree of adherence to the statutory criteria for emergency spending, which are that spending must be necessary, sudden, urgent, unforeseen, and not permanent in character? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. To the extent those criteria of emergency being necessary--sudden, urgent, unforeseen, and not permanent--if those were the criteria, what proportion of the $8.7 billion of emergency spending would meet those standards? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. In the fiscal year 2000 budget, how much is budgeted for emergencies that potentially will occur in the fiscal year that began on October 1? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. If I can editorialize a moment on that question, it seems to me this would be analogous to a family which, for instance, in its budget had said: We will estimate the cost of medical care for our family will be $250. At the end of the year, they found, in fact, it was $1,000. They had to make certain end-of-the-year adjustments in order to fill that $750 missing element in their budget. When they began to write the budget for the next year, one would think prudence would say: Let's include $1,000 as our medical expenses,  not a number which has been proven to be inadequate. 
   I suggest somewhat the same analogy would be applicable here. If we have shown there is $8.7 billion of emergency spending and we have appropriated zero for those emergencies, for the future it would be prudent to begin to incorporate into our ongoing budget some funds to respond to these emergencies. We do not know the characteristics, we do not know the geographic location, we do not know when the emergency will occur, but we are pretty sure there is going to be some kind of emergency somewhere in American agriculture that will warrant a response. 
   Prudence would indicate we ought to have a fund from which to meet those needs so that every year we are not in the position of having passed an emergency appropriation which, as we know, has the effect of vitiating all of the normal budgetary rules, including budgetary rules that require we offset spending with either reductions in spending elsewhere or with additional revenue. The effect of this is to go directly to the budget surplus. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The other two questions relative to the budget relate to advance funding. Is there any advance funding in this conference report, i.e., funds that were normal fiscal year 2000 expenditures which are delayed to a future fiscal year? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Finally, relative to the payment adjustments, is there any change in this conference report relative to the timing of payments made to vendors that are beneficiaries which will have the effect of moving fiscal year 2000 costs into future years? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you very much. 
   Mr. HARKIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am here today, as I was in July, to point out to my colleagues another stealth effort to kill competition within the Medicare program. Title I, section 214, buried in the middle of this long appropriations bill on page 49, carries the following statement:  
   None of the funds provided in this Act or in any other Act making appropriations for fiscal year 2000 may be used to administer or implement in Arizona or in Kansas City, Missouri or in the Kansas City, Kansas area the Medicare Competitive Pricing Demonstration Project operated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under authority granted in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997.  
   If that statement sounds familiar, it is. Almost the same language was buried in the HMO Patients' Bill of Rights bill as it passed the Senate back in July. It passed then undebated and undiscussed as to its implications--just as we are about to do here tonight. July's action was outrageous. This action is even more so. 
   There is a certain irony here. We have just heard that the House of Representatives passed, by an overwhelming vote, a version of the HMO Patients' Bill of Rights which is very similar to the bipartisan bill offered but not considered in the Senate. Our bipartisan bill was strongly opposed by the HMO industry. Their basic argument is: let's keep government out of our business, let us operate based on a competitive model that will allow the consumer, the beneficiary of the HMO contract, to negotiate without government standards, without government sanctions for failure to deliver on those standards with the HMO industry. They wanted to have laissez-faire free enterprise; Adam Smith roams the land. 
   However, today we are about to pass a provision that says when the HMOs are dealing with their pocketbook and the question of how they will get reimbursed, how much money they are going to get paid from Medicare, they don't want to have a free market of competition; they don't want to have a means by which the taxpayers can be assured what they are paying for the HMO product is what the market says they should be paying. 
   There is a certain amount of irony there which I think underscores the motivations of a significant portion of this industry. There also is a procedural ploy here. If this provision I just quoted were to be offered as an amendment to this bill, it would be ruled out of order under rule XVI in part because it purports not only to control action in this act but in any other act that Congress might consider making in an appropriations bill. But this is not an amendment; this is in the bill itself as it has come out of the Appropriations Committee, and therefore rule XVI does not apply. 
   Normally under the procedures the Congress has followed traditionally, we would be dealing with a House bill because the House traditionally has led in the appropriations process; therefore, we would be amending a House bill. Thus, we could have excised this provision. However, because we are violating tradition and taking up a Senate bill first, we do not have the opportunity to remove it by a point of order. 
   I will state for the record that henceforth, when it is proposed we take up a Senate appropriations bill before a House bill, I am going to stand here and object. This is exactly the kind of procedural abuse we can expect in the future as is happening right now. 
   If that isn't bad enough, this is just plain bad policy. 
   It stifles innovation by eliminating the competitive demonstration which hopefully would have led to a competitive process of compensating HMOs. It forces Medicare to pay more than necessary for some services in certain areas of the country while it denies managed care to other areas of the country. 
   This HMO pricing is not without its own history. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 included the competitive pricing demonstration program for Medicare. That provision was fought in the committee and fought in the Senate in 1997 by the HMO industry and certain Members of this body, but it prevailed. One by one, the HMO industry has been able to kill or has attempted to kill demonstrations which have been scheduled in many communities across the country. Today it is Arizona and Kansas City. 
   The equation is pretty simple. It does not take rocket science to understand what is happening. Who benefits by continuing a system of paying Medicare HMOs that are not subject to competition? The HMOs benefit. Who loses when the same system is open to competition? The HMOs, because they no longer have the gravy train that exists today. Who gains by competition? Beneficiaries gain, particularly in rural areas which don't have managed care today. It would be the marketplace that would be establishing what the appropriate reimbursement level should be for an HMO in a currently unserved or underserved rural area--not a formula which underpays what the real cost of providing managed care would be in such an area. And the taxpayers lose because they do not get the benefit of the marketplace as a discipline of what the HMO's compensation should be. 
   It is curious that out of one side of their mouth, they are screaming the current system of reimbursement is putting them out of business and causing them to have to leave hundreds of thousands of former HMO beneficiaries high and dry and also to curtail benefits such as prescription drugs, but at the same time, they are saying out of the left side of their mouth they are doing everything they can to prevent the insertion of competitive bidding as a means of establishing what their HMO contracts are really worth and what they should be paid. 
   They cannot have it both ways. 
   It takes a certain degree of political courage to make this reform happen. Let me give an example. In my own State of Florida, we were part of this demonstration project. We were selected to have a demonstration for Part B services for what are referred to as durable medical equipment. Lakeland, FL, was selected as the place to demonstrate the potential savings for medical equipment such as oxygen supplies and equipment, hospital beds and accessories, surgical dressings, enteral nutrition, and urological supplies. 
   The savings that have been achieved in this project are impressive. 
   They are 18-percent savings for oxygen supplies. I know the Senator from Iowa has stood on this floor and at times has even wrapped himself in medical bandages to demonstrate how much more Medicare was paying than, for instance, the Veterans' Administration for the same items. This competitive bidding process is attempting to bring the forces of the market into Medicare, and an 18-percent savings by competitively bidding oxygen supplies and equipment over the old formula we used to use. There were 30-percent savings for hospital beds and accessories, 13-percent savings for surgical dressings, 31 percent for enteral nutrition products, and 20 percent for urological supplies. It has been estimated if that Lakeland, FL, project were to be applied on a nationwide basis, the savings over 10 years would be in excess of $1 billion. We are not talking about small change. 
   Beneficiaries have saved money from this demonstration, and access and quality have been preserved and protected. 
   I find it troubling we are again today, as we were in July, debating, at the end of a major piece of legislation, a silently, surreptitiously included item which has the effect of sheltering HMOs from the marketplace. We might find some HMOs cannot compete and others will thrive, but that is what the marketplace should determine. That is what competition is all about. 
   I urge my colleagues to examine this provision, to examine the implications of this provision in this kind of legislation and the restraints it imposes upon us, as Members of the Senate, to excise it as inappropriate legislative language on an appropriations bill. 
   I hope our conferees, as they meet with the House, will resist the inclusion of this in the final legislation we might be asked to vote upon when this measure comes back from conference. This disserves the beneficiaries of the Medicare program. It disserves the taxpayers of America. It disserves the standards of public policy development by the Senate. I hope we will not have a further repetition of this stealth attack on the Medicare program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues from Vermont and Maine for their always courteous generosity, and my colleague from Oregon, with whom I have been working so closely for approximately 2 years-plus now on this important issue. 
   There is one thing I believe we can agree on, and that is that the status quo of agricultural farm workers in America is unacceptable. It is unacceptable to have somewhere between 35 and 50 percent of all of our migratory farm work done by people who are here illegally. It is unfair to the individuals involved because it puts them in the shadows of our society. 
   If I may, I will state a personal experience. Immediately after Hurricane Andrew, which hit south Florida in August of 1992, there was great concern about communicable diseases such as cholera; therefore the Public Health Service wanted to inoculate the whole population against the potential of these diseases. There is a substantial migrant farm worker population that lives in the southern part of our State, and many of those people refused to come forward to be inoculated, nor would they allow their children to be protected against communicable diseases because they live in such a dark shadow because of their undocumented status. They were fearful that if they came forward, even with firm promises and commitments by the Public Health Service that they would not be reported for any other purpose, they were still not willing to take the risk. So they put themselves, their families, and the entire community at risk. That is one anecdote of the degree to which, by our acceptance of the status quo, we have placed hundreds of thousands of people into a status of servitude and in the dark closet of our society. 
   We also have placed honest farmers in an extremely difficult situation. They are frequently presented with documents that appear to be credible. They hire people to do necessary work during the brief period that is available to harvest the crops, and then they find out later that these people had fraudulent documents, were undocumented, and that they might be subject to various sanctions. 
   We also know that because of the current system, we have farm workers--both those who are legal citizens or residents of the United States, as well as those who are undocumented--living in horrendous circumstances of housing, being transported in vehicles that don't meet basic safety standards, being placed in a position where their salaries are held each week in order to pay off previous debts, and they live in conditions that are reminiscent not of the 21st century but of the 17th or 18th century. These people are doing extremely difficult work, work that is vital to our Nation and vital to our Nation's economy. They deserve better from us, the policymakers of America, than we have done for them in the past. 
   One thing we also know, in addition to the fact that the status quo is unacceptable, is the status quo will continue until we decide that this issue is important enough to engage in a serious debate in which we can analyze what the problems are with the status quo, and what the range of solutions to those problems are, and which of those solutions appear to be most appropriate. And it is regarding that which the Senator from Oregon has mentioned that we have had a series of efforts to try to elicit from the administration their plan. 
   Now, why have we focused so much on the administration? Well, first, they happen to have a unique perspective on the problem, since they are responsible to the Department of Labor, and, secondarily, the Department of Agriculture, for the implementation of the status quo. 
   Therefore, they should be in a specially advantaged position to analyze and recommend alteration to the status quo. 
   We also know in this form of government we have that while the legislature's responsibility is to enact law, the President, because of his role and because of his constitutional veto authority, plays a key position in terms of legislation and the law. 
   So beginning in June of 1997, we have been meeting with representatives of the administration, heads of departments, as well as representatives of the White House. Senator WYDEN and myself, sometimes accompanied by others, have met face-to-face, occasionally by conference telephone call, and occasionally by correspondence with the administration on 12 separate occasions between June of 1997 and May of 1999. 
   Each one of those had a common theme: What is your proposal? What is your diagnosis of the problem? What is your prescription against this problem?  As of today, in early October of 1999, we have yet to receive a credible response to that question. 
   Thus, the amendment that was accepted to the bill we have just adopted directs the administration to submit to the Congress such a plan. It is my hope that the administration will do so with a sense of expedition. I hope within a period of 60 or 90 days we receive its recommendations so that, if not at their first session of the 106th Congress, then at the earliest point in the second session of the 106th Congress, we would be in a position to have the administration's views as to how this very vexatious problem could be resolved. 
   I might say that the fact we have made this request, and have made it now for the better part of 30 months, is not an indication that we are going to desist until we have heard the administration's plan. While we would like to have their guidance and suggestions, we consider it to be our ultimate responsibility, as we did in 1998 when we presented to the Senate and the Senate adopted by a margin of well over 2 to 1, the proposal that we submitted. We will continue to take effective action to keep this issue on America's agenda because we cannot tolerate a continuation of the status quo which places hundreds of thousands of human beings into a position of servitude and which places hundreds of thousands of legitimate farmers in a position in which they must operate at the fringe of the law when what they want to do is to be law-abiding citizens. 
   Before this 106th Congress concludes, I hope we will have had the wisdom to reject the status quo and to have adopted humane, effective public policy which will erase the stain of the status quo of American farm workers, which will have lifted this cloud of illegality from American farmers, which will assure standards of treatment that we as fellow human beings would consider to be dignified and respectful for other human beings, and that we can move forward with a new era in America agriculture. 
   I appreciate the work of my colleague from Oregon. I also commend our other colleague from Oregon, Senator GORDON SMITH. It is an outstanding example of the people of Oregon who have sent to us these two Members of the Senate, who happen to be from different parties but understand their ultimate commitment is to America and to what is best for this great Nation. They are giving us, in this case, as in other areas, an example of what bipartisanship means and what bipartisanship can accomplish. For that, as well as for their friendship, I extend my gratitude. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to join my distinguished colleague from Oklahoma in introducing legislation that creates public and private incentives to reduce the cost of future disasters. 
   On June 1st, the start of the 1999 Hurricane Season, the National Weather Service predicted that the United States would face three or four intense hurricanes during the next six months. 
   We did not have a long wait to experience the accuracy of that forecast. From September 12-15, 1999, Hurricane Floyd dragged 140 mph winds and eight foot tidal surges along the eastern seaboard. Floyd caused flooding, tornadoes, and massive damage from Florida to New Jersey. Evacuations were conducted as far north as Delaware. This disaster claimed the lives of 68 people. Initial damage estimates suggest that Floyd could cost the federal government more than $6 billion. Just days later, Tropical Storm Harvey struck Florida's west coast. We are still assessing the combine effects of these storms. 
   Coming just seven years after Hurricane Andrew damaged 128,000 homes, left approximately 160,000 people homeless, and caused nearly $30 billion in damage, this year's developments remind us of the inevitability and destructive power of Mother Nature. We must prepare for natural disasters if we are going to minimize their devastating effects. 
   It is impossible to stop violent weather. But Congress can reduce the losses from severe weather by legislating a comprehensive, nationwide mitigation strategy. Senator INHOFE and I have worked closely with FEMA, the National Emergency Management Association, the National League of Cities, the American Red Cross, and numerous other groups to construct a comprehensive proposal that will make mitigation--not response and recovery--the primary focus of emergency management. 
   Our legislation amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. It will: Authorize programs for pre-disaster emergency preparedness; streamline the administration of disaster relief; restrain the Federal costs of disaster assistance; and provide incentives for the development of community-sponsored mitigation projects. 
   Mr. President, history has demonstrated that no community in the United States is safe from 
   disasters. From tropical weather along the Atlantic Coast to devastating floods in the Upper Midwest to earthquakes in the Pacific Rim, we have suffered as a result of Mother Nature's fury. She will strike again. But we can avoid some of the excessive human and financial costs of the past by applying what we have learned about preparedness technology. 
   Florida has been a leader in incorporating the principles and practice of hazard mitigation into the mainstream of community preparedness. We have developed and implemented mitigation projects using funding from the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program and other public-private partnerships. 
   Everyone has a role in reducing the risks associated with natural and technological related hazards. Engineers, hospital administrators, business leaders, regional planners and emergency managers and volunteers are all significant contributors to mitigation efforts. 
   An effective mitigation project may be as basic as the Miami Wind Shutter program. The installation of shutters is a cost-effective mitigation measure that has proven effective in protecting buildings from hurricane force winds, and in the process minimizing direct and indirect losses to vulnerable facilities. These shutters significantly increase strength and provide increased protection of life and property. 
   In 1992, Hurricane Andrew did $17 million worth of damage to Baptist, Miami South, and Mercy Hospitals in Miami. As a result, these hospitals were later retrofitted with wind shutters through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. 
   Six years after Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Georges brushed against South Florida. The shutter project paid dividends. Georges' track motivated evacuees to leave more vulnerable areas of South Florida to seek shelter. The protective shutters allowed these three Miami hospitals to serve as a safe haven for 200 pregnant mothers, prevented the need to evacuate critical patients, and helped the staff's families to secure shelter during the response effort. 
   In July of 1994, Tropical Storm Alberto's landfall in the Florida Panhandle triggered more than $500 million in federal disaster assistance. State and local officials concluded that the direct solution to the problem of repetitive flooding was to remove or demolish the structures at risk. A Community Block Grant of $27.5 million was used to assist local governments in acquiring 388 extremely vulnerable properties. 
   The success of this effort was evident when the same area experienced flooding again in the spring of 1998. While both floods were of comparable severity, the damages from the second disaster were significantly lower in the communities that acquired the flood prone properties. This mitigation project reduced their vulnerability. 
   We have an opportunity today to continue the working partnership between the federal government, the states, local communities and the private sector. In mitigating the devastating effects of natural disasters, it is also imperative that we control the cost of disaster relief. Our legislation will help in this effort. I encourage my colleagues to support this initiative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19991001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I understand we are in morning business with a 10-minute restriction on length of comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19991001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent to be able to speak for 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19991001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I wish to speak on an issue which has already been addressed by several of our colleagues earlier in the week. Initially, I was reluctant to discuss this matter for fear of contributing to a charge of politicization of an issue which, in my judgment, should not be thought of as political but, rather, one to be judged and decided in the finest traditions of our Nation, the relationship of each of the branches of Government carrying out their appropriate responsibilities. 
   The reticence I had to discuss this issue was overcome when I heard some of the comments made about our Justice Department and about our Attorney General relative to the decision made to file civil claims on behalf of the Federal Government and the citizens of the United States against the tobacco industry. 
   The purpose of my remarks this afternoon is not to rebut comments made elsewhere; rather, it is my purpose to remind our colleagues of the bedrock principles upon which this body, upon which our Federal Government operates, the rule of law and the separation of powers. 
   The level of rhetoric on the question of whether the Federal Government should have initiated civil litigation against the tobacco industry has been very high. The level of analysis, unfortunately, in my opinion, has been quite shallow. In their haste to spring to the tobacco industry's defense and to, once again, heap partisan abuse upon the Attorney General and the Justice Department, some Members of Congress have disregarded the very nature of our system of government. 
   I have heard it said the Justice Department suit violates both separation of powers and the rule of law. In my opinion, these accusations turn the structure of our Government completely on its head. Nearly 200 years ago, Chief Justice John Marshall explained the powers of our coordinate branches of Government. In Marbury v. Madison, the seminal decision which established the concept of judicial review, the Chief Justice wrote: The powers of the legislature are defined and limited and that those limits not be mistaken or forgotten, the Constitution is written. 
   The Chief Justice went on to say it is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is. 
   For the last 200 years, the American people have understood the respective roles of the three branches of Government. As the national legislature, our duty as Congress is to find and limit it to the role of making law. It is the executive branch's role, in part through the Justice Department, to enforce that law. It is the Judiciary's role to interpret the law. Each branch of Government must be left to do its work without interference from the other branches. 
   We in Congress have already done our job. We have made the laws which the Justice Department now seeks to enforce. Whether the Justice Department ultimately prevails is left to a third branch of Government, the judiciary. The only threat to the rule of law in filing this litigation on behalf of the American people against the tobacco industry is posed by those who seek to step beyond their proper relationship and usurp the power granted by the  Constitution to other branches of Government. It is neither wise nor right for members in the legislature to attempt to tell the executive how to enforce the laws or to tell the courts how to interpret the laws. If we practice jurisprudence by press release, we become lawmakers, law enforcers, law judges. If we have learned anything at the end of this millennium, it is that such an aggregation of power is the antithesis of the rule of law and is, instead, the imposition of tyranny. 
   Throughout the world--from East Timor to Kosovo to Cuba--we encourage other countries to follow the rule of law. We must do no less here. We have the greatest judicial system in the world. It resolves disputes based on evidence not rhetoric. Let us allow our court system to adjudicate this dispute without congressional interference. 
   Undoubtedly there have been instances when individual Members, if not a majority of the Senate, have questioned the wisdom of lawsuits brought by the Justice Department. 
   When powerful industries violate federal law, it is not uncommon for them to seek congressional interference. When individuals or groups have used their power and privilege to dominate others, and that power was challenged by the law, they have shrilled--``foul.'' 
   Many disagreed when President Theodore Roosevelt's Justice Department sued to break up Standard Oil. Similar complaints were heard when President Reagan's Justice Department sued AT&T. 
   And we can all remember the outcry in some quarters in the 1950's and 1960's when the Justice Department sought to enforce civil rights guarantees. 
   While some influential members might have advocated congressional intervention, in none of those cases did the Congress step in to attempt to tell the Justice Department whom it can or cannot sue. We must not do that now. 
   Some have asked why Congress was not consulted prior to this suit being filed. The questioners appear to have forgotten much of what has happened in the last year. 
   Setting aside the fact that the Justice Department has no obligation to ask Congress for permission to enforce the law, Congress was well aware this litigation was under consideration. 
   In his State of the Union address, the President discussed the possibility of this tobacco suit, by announcing that he had asked the Justice Department to prepare a litigation plan against the tobacco industry. Specifically, the President said:  
   So tonight I announce that the Justice Department is preparing a litigation plan to take the tobacco companies to court--and with the funds we recover, to strengthen Medicare.  
   It would have been hard to be clearer. 
   Congress also considered the potential for a federal tobacco suit when it protected the states' tobacco settlements from federal incursion. In the budget resolution, passed on March 25, 1999, I offered a sense-of-the-Senate amendment which stated that the proceeds of a successful federal lawsuit should be used to shore up the Medicare Trust Fund and help to establish a prescription drug benefit. That amendment passed without dissent. 
   In March of this year, during debate of the budget resolution, the Senate defeated an amendment offered by Senators SPECTER and HARKIN to place strings on the states' tobacco settlements. Several Members of this body, including myself, stated that if the federal government believed it had claims against the tobacco industry, the Justice Department was free to bring those claims but that the Federal Government should not attempt to recoup State settlement proceeds. The matter was discussed yet again when the Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations Subcommittee attempted to impede the Justice Department's ability to pursue litigation against the tobacco industry. Not only was the offensive report language effectively removed through a colloquy, the chairman of the subcommittee expressly acknowledged that:  
   Nothing in the bill or the report language prohibits the Department from using generally appropriated funds, including funds from the Fees and Expenses of Witnesses Account, to pursue this litigation if the Department concludes such litigation has merit under existing law.  
   Quite obviously, the Justice Department has reached the very conclusion discussed on the floor of the Senate just a few months ago. 
   Surely it is absurd to suggest that the Justice Department somehow blind-sided Congress with the announcement of this lawsuit. But again, these facts beg the question. The Justice Department does not need my permission or your permission, or the permission of anyone else in this body to do its job, which is to enforce the law. Conversely, if we attempt to prevent the Justice Department from doing its job, we are engaging in obstruction of justice. Others have questioned the motivation for bringing this suit. I believe the motivation for the Attorney General's decision is similar to that of the attorneys general in many of our states: to enforce the law--and by doing so--protect the American people and particularly the children of America. 
   The suit seeks to end the cycle of addiction to nicotine, an addiction created in part by false advertising and advertising targeting the youth of our country. It also seeks to recompense taxpayers for the billions of dollars this addiction has cost them--the taxpayers of America. These are motivations which should be celebrated, not ridiculed. 
   The merits of this case rightfully will be determined in a court of law--not in this body, not in the Congress. But since some of my colleagues have seen fit to put on their own imaginary black robes and pretend to judge this case, I would like to offer a few observations of my own. 
   It has been argued that the civil RICO statute does not apply in this case because tobacco is a legal product. But this argument ignores the claims made by the Justice Department. 
   The Justice Department does not allege that tobacco itself is illegal. Nor does it suggest that the tobacco industry broke the law by selling or marketing tobacco products to adults. 
   Instead, the Justice Department argues that tobacco companies violated the civil RICO statute--a Federal law, of course, enacted by Congress--by conspiring to illegally market their cigarettes to children and by wilfully withholding critical information from the public and the Government. 
   The tobacco companies have known for years what we are just beginning to learn. If they don't hook you early, they'll never hook you. And if they never hook you, their business dies. It's as simple as that. Tobacco relies by necessity on addicting our children. 
   According to the Centers for Disease Control, 89 percent of all smokers begin smoking before age 18. So, Mr. President, does it surprise us that the tobacco industry has spent millions of dollars each year to addict our children? It certainly should not. 
   But whether it surprises us or not, we have an obligation to do something about it. In this case, we should simply let the Justice Department enforce the laws that we have passed. 
   As documents introduced in state court actions have demonstrated, some of the marketing efforts of these companies have been directed at children as young as 10 years old. 
   The fact that tobacco is legal for adults does not give these companies the right to market their products illegally to children or to misrepresent or conceal information. These allegations, if proven, will constitute a violation of the RICO statute. 
   I am even more disturbed by another argument made by the pro-tobacco forces. They argue that even if the Justice Department can prove the tobacco companies lied and illegally marketed their products, the Federal Government has suffered no damages because tobacco use imposes no net cost to the taxpayer. 
   Let me restate that: the Federal Government has suffered no damages because tobacco use imposes no net cost to the taxpayer. 
   Let us be clear on what is being argued here. Big Tobacco says that the taxpayers incur no increased costs because tobacco kills people prematurely. Therefore, the industry argues that the taxpayers save money by not having to pay out Social Security or Medicare funds to Americans whose lives are cut short by tobacco before they reach 65. 
   I imagine there might be some who would congratulate the tobacco industry for saving us all this money by killing our fellow American citizens before  they become a burden. I, for one, and I am confident the vast majority of Americans, would much rather spend money on Social Security and Medicare than have millions of our fellow citizens die a slow, a painful, and a premature death. 
   Along with being a ghoulish and despicable argument, the industry's twisted logic that it has imposed no net cost on the American taxpayer has also been properly rejected on public policy grounds. 
   In January of 1998, the trial court in the Minnesota State suit against the tobacco industry upheld the motion of the State of Minnesota for summary judgment, effectively stating that the State of Minnesota had established its case with no further evidence required. 
   In granting this motion, Judge Fitzpatrick ruled the tobacco industry defendants could not use the fact that they killed people prematurely to their advantage in defending against the suit. 
   Predictably, the friends of tobacco also make another slippery slope argument. If the Justice Department can sue tobacco companies, they say, what other industries will not be safe? Will fast food or beef or dairy industries be the next in line? 
   This argument is truly offensive. It is an affront to me personally and should be an affront to all legitimate owners of businesses, large and small, who contribute to this Nation, instead of destroying its health. My family happens to have been in the dairy business for almost 70 years. I take great offense at the comparison between the tobacco industry and the dairy industry. Neither the dairy industry, the beef industry, fast food industry, nor any other is comparable to tobacco. The tobacco industry is unique. Only the tobacco industry has stonewalled and lied to the American public and the American Government for half a century about the known addictive nature of its products. If anyone in this body wants to argue that the dairy or beef industries are analogous to big tobacco, then I invite them to come down to the Senate floor and let's have that debate. Better yet, go to Florida or Wisconsin and tell cattle and dairy farmers they should be treated like big tobacco, an industry which depends on destroying the health of our children in order to succeed. 
   Let's spend a moment talking about those children. When all the legal arguments and all the political rhetoric fall away, our children remain. They, not lawsuits, not politicians, are our most important concern. It is our children who have been the targets of a predatory effort by the tobacco industry to entice them into an addiction which will eventually kill them. 
   We also know that early cigarette habits are directly related to other drug use. A 1994 Surgeon General report showed that cigarettes are a gateway drug, a significant risk factor to increased incidents of alcohol and illicit drug use. 
   This report highlighted the relationship of teenage smoking as a precursor to the use of alcohol and drugs, including recent data from the National Institute on Drug and Alcohol Abuse's ``Monitoring the Future'' project which showed that 33 percent of those surveyed admitted to starting drinking at the same time they started the use of tobacco. This same survey also 
   indicated that 23 percent of the respondents began using both cigarettes and marijuana in the same year. 
   Importantly, 65 percent of the respondents smoked cigarettes before they used marijuana. This relationship was more pronounced for cocaine: 98 percent of individuals who used cocaine first smoked cigarettes. Putting an end to the tobacco company's illegal marketing efforts toward our Nation's youth will reduce children's smoking. This, in turn, will go a long way to helping combat the use of other illegal drugs. 
   I know the Justice Department's suit is not a panacea. It will take a combination of litigation and legislation to solve this problem. 
   A court, for instance, cannot grant enhanced Food and Drug Administration authority to classify nicotine as a drug and cigarettes as a drug-delivery device, a powerful tool to prevent the tobacco industry from manipulating the product to addict even more people. Only Congress can give the Food and Drug Administration that authority. 
   Should Congress find the tobacco industry responsible for the high rate of youth smoking, Congress may have to impose penalties on big tobacco based on the industry's failure to meet statutorily defined youth smoking reduction targets. A court cannot bind future entrants into the tobacco market to marketing and advertising restrictions which were entered into by the previous participants in the tobacco industry through a consent decree. That may also require congressional involvement. 
   I stand ready to work with my colleagues on all of these and other necessary legislative issues, but this suit is, however, an important, a useful step in enforcing the rule of law. It is important in protecting our children and our grandchildren. 
   I am proud to call Janet Reno a friend. As an American, I applaud her for her hard work, for her tenacity, and courage in the face of fierce partisan opposition. I say thank you, Madam Attorney General, on behalf of all of America's citizens. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
   Mr. MURKOWSKI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent, first, to yield to our colleague from Georgia for purposes of a request and then for purposes of making a unanimous consent request that has to do with establishing my order in the line to offer an amendment relative to the pending legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Did the Senator from North Carolina object? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Would the Senator from North Carolina object if my motion was to yield to the Senator from Georgia for purposes of the motion he wishes to make? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am asking unanimous consent to yield to the Senator from Georgia for the purposes of the motion of the Senator from Georgia; is there objection to that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I accept that if I could be recognized between the Senators from Georgia and North Carolina for purposes of my procedural motion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The request is, first, that the Senator from Georgia be recognized for the purposes of a motion, and I be recognized for a unanimous consent that will only ask my amendment be taken up as the next Democratic amendment relative to the pending legislation; and then the third step is the Senator from North Carolina would be recognized. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I want to yield to the Senator from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent I be the next Democratic Senator to be recognized for purposes of an amendment after Senator REID of Nevada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I appreciate the courtesy of moving forward. This amendment is going to raise some very fundamental issues not only for a major social program but also for the relationship between the Federal Government and the States and the relationship between the appropriations process and the committees that have jurisdiction for authorization and the administration of the mandatory spending program. 
   I do not believe at this time I can indicate how long it will take to fully articulate those issues to have the kind of debate which this amendment clearly justifies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I suggest, in deference to the effective use of time, it would be preferable if we got started with this amendment and then saw, as we were into it, what might be a reasonable time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask that amendment No. 1821 be called up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this amendment, in which I am joined by Senators WELLSTONE, ROCKEFELLER, and DODD, will have the effect of reversing a decision made by the appropriations subcommittee to cut by more than 50 percent the funding in title 20 of the Social Security Act for social services block grants. 
   This amendment will restore the program to the level that was authorized by the Finance Committee, which is $2.38 billion. This program, title 20 of Social Security, allocates funds to the States in block grant form, allowing them to provide services to vulnerable, low-income children and elderly, disabled people. The purpose of this program is to assist in maintaining the well-being of those Americans who, but for these types of services, might become direct, individual recipients of Social Security funds, whether they fell into such because of a disability, because of their circumstances in terms of losing the support of an adult, or because of the aging process. 
   I can tell the Senate, as a former Governor of Florida, the State which has the highest percentage of persons over 65 in the Nation, and now, as a member of the Finance Committee, which has responsibility for the authorization of this program, I am aware of the positive contribution this program has made to the well-being of millions of Americans and to the fiscal well-being of the Social Security program. I am particularly concerned about the draconian cuts that have been made and the fact that they have been made with almost no discussion or attention to the very serious policy implications. 
   My Finance Committee colleagues and I, joined by colleagues from the House Ways and Means Committee, have agreed that this program should be funded at the level of $2.38 billion for the fiscal year 2000. In fact, the two committees of responsibility, the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee, made a commitment to the States that the social services block grant would be guaranteed at the level of $2.38 billion until welfare reform is reauthorized in the year 2002. 
   However, the Senate appropriators, rather than simply appropriating the statutory funding level for the fiscal year 2000 at $2.38 billion, have slashed the social services block grant to $1.05 billion for the fiscal year 2000. This harsh, unauthorized reduction would be on top of a 15-percent reduction made to title 20 in the 1996 welfare law. 
   These enormous reductions will have adverse consequences for substantial numbers of frail elderly persons, disabled individuals, and children and their families. In my State of Florida, critical programs will be at serious risk if these cuts are made. 
   For example, these reductions will affect services that protect children from child abuse and that enable poor elderly and disabled persons to remain in their homes rather than being placed prematurely in nursing homes or other institutions. 
   Our State was one of the first to start a program called Community Care for the elderly, begun over 20 years ago. It had as its objective to allow older Americans to live the life they wanted to live, a life of maximum independence in their homes, in their communities, not to be forced prematurely into an institution. That program was funded both by State funds and by the use of some of these social service block grant programs. That program has had not only enormous positive benefits in terms of the quality of life of the beneficiaries--and, I might say, has now become a program that has been identified for substantial expansion by our current Governor, Governor Bush--but it also has been a program that has saved both Medicare and Medicaid substantial funds by maintaining the best possible state of health for many frail elderly and avoiding the extreme costs that are entailed when an individual has to be placed in a nursing home. 
   We heard at a luncheon earlier today from a program that has shown great promise in terms of providing a successful educational environment for our youngest students. One of the primary keystones of that success is appropriate early intervention with children before they become public school students, while they are still in the infant and toddler ages, if they have physical or other disabilities, to begin to deal with them at the earliest stages, to give them an appropriate learning environment in preschool. 
   Again, those are precisely the programs that are funded through title 20 of the Social Security Act. Those are precisely the programs that are going to be eviscerated if we adopt this budget with this over 50-percent cut. 
   To add to all of that, I direct the attention of the Senate to page 212 of the conference report which has been issued on the Labor-HHS appropriations bill. In that conference report, there is an explanation of why this cut is being recommended. The report states:  
   The committee recommends an appropriations of $1.50 billion for the Social Services Block Grant. The recommendation is $1.330 billion below the budget request (read the recommendation of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee) and $859 million below the 1999 enacted level. The committee has reduced funding for the block grant because of extremely tight budget constraints.  
   I would like for the Presiding Officer and my colleagues to listen to this particular part.  
   The committee believes that the States can supplement the block grant account with funds received through the recent settlements with the tobacco companies.  
   So the subcommittee's rationale for this particular reduction is that the States can now be directed to use their tobacco settlement money in order to fund what previously had been a partnership of Federal-State funds for the frail elderly, for the disabled, and for children and their families. 
   Mr. President, I fervently object to this outrageous, irresponsible and, I would say, nonsensical rationale. 
   As you will recall, this spring we had a fervent debate about the question of whether the Federal Government should reach in and mandate how all or a portion of the States' tobacco settlements should be spent. We fought that out for weeks in the Senate. 
   I thought after a series of rejections of exactly this proposition that the States could now with some comfort step back and say the Federal Government has decided, properly so, that we were the entities which secured these tobacco settlements; that the Federal Government would be saying we have the respect of the States that they have the good judgment to decide what is in the best interests of their citizens in the methods of spending these tobacco settlement funds; that the States could breathe easy; that they no longer  were faced with the threat that the Federal Government would want to play big father and tell them how to spend their money. 
   It was only in March of this year that the Senate overwhelmingly by a margin of approximately 71 to 29 defeated an amendment that would have required the States to spend part of their tobacco settlement according to a Federal list of priorities. In June, the entire Congress voted for the Federal Government to stand back, to keep its hands off the tobacco settlement, which the States had with such effort and commitment achieved; that the Federal Government was saying to the State: We respect you, and we put our confidence in your decisions as to how to spend this money. 
   Now we have a few months later this language saying that it is one of the most important social programs we in Washington are going to effectively, by withdrawing Federal funds, direct how the States are going to spend their tobacco settlement. 
   It is outrageous. 
   The commitment that we made for hands off was a binding commitment, just as our commitment to fund the title XX program that we made to the States to fund it at its current level to the year 2002 in order to play a role in the successful 
   completion of the welfare-to-work law was also a binding commitment, commitments that we are now about to breach. 
   Today, many of the same individuals who voted to allow the States to use these funds as they saw most appropriate for their citizens are about to tell the States that they need to reallocate tobacco settlement dollars in order to pick up the Federal social services block grant which we are going to slash by over 50 percent. That is blatant hypocrisy. 
   The argument that the tobacco funds should be used to fill a $1.33 billion cut in title XX is quite simply--no pun intended--a smoke-and-mirrors tactic that does not address the issue at hand. Senate appropriators have no valid argument in defense of their drastic cuts in this critical program. 
   Have no doubt that the ultimate loser in this exercise is the child--the child who is currently receiving child care in a title XX funded center. The loser is that other American who has sought refuge from abuse through adult protective services, the disabled woman who receives treatment through a title XX funded center. Perhaps the reason our appropriators believe that they can get away with this raid on the social services block grant is that the American people are unclear about the services that this program provides. 
   So I would like to take this opportunity to enlighten my Senate colleagues and the American people on what are the programs funded under title XX of the Social Security Act. 
   The social services block grant was established in 1975. So it is now about to celebrate its 25th year of an important part of the safety net that helps those persons who might otherwise have to rely on expanded Social Security funds. 
   It provides States with funds to address the social service needs as the States determine to be of the greatest priority. States have broad flexibility in determining which services to provide, who should deliver services, and which families and individuals to serve. 
   I know our Presiding Officer had a distinguished career of service in his State before being elected to the Senate. So he has no doubt dealt with some of the programs that are funded under title XX of the Social Security Act. 
   Adoption, case management, congregate meals, counseling services, adult day care, day care for children, education and training services, employment services, foster care services, health-related services, home-based services, home-delivered meals, housing services, independent living services for youth, legal services, child and adult protective services, recreation services, residential treatment, special services for youth at risk, and the disabled--these are some of the services that are provided under title XX. 
   As you can see, many of the SSBG-funded services focus on children and youth. 
   In fiscal year 1996, some 15 percent of the SSBG funds supported programs providing child care for low-income children. An additional 21 percent was spent on services to protect children from abuse and provide foster care for children. 
   SSBG funds programs for nearly half a million people with mental retardation and other physical and mental disability, including transportation, adult day care, early intervention, crisis intervention, respite care, employment, and independent living services. 
   These services help such individuals remain at home and out of expensive and often inappropriate institutions. These services also help people with disabilities to work, to the extent it is possible for them to do so. 
   These programs drew the support of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee, the two committees with responsibility for Social Security, to support the level of funding which is in the amendment currently pending. 
   For those who have suggested this more than 50-percent slash in this program, what is it they know about this program that the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee did not know or did not take into proper account? What we should be doing is not slashing this program but, if anything, we should be increasing this funding in order to assist particularly in this important time of transition from welfare to work. 
   It should be noted that the Senate Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill appears to reduce the percentage of a State's Federal TANF block grant, another of the programs that will be critical to the transfer from welfare to work, will reduce the percentage of a State's Federal TANF block grant that can be transferred to the social services block grant from 10 percent to 4.25 percent for fiscal year 2000. Not only are the States facing a draconian reduction in the social services block grant but also a limit in the flexibility of those funds. The 4.25-percent ceiling further limits States' abilities to compensate for the impact of the overall social services block grant funding. 
   One might ask, should the States also use tobacco money to fill the hole for this further cut, as well? Should the States perhaps be called upon to use tobacco funds to supplement all Federal funds for social programs? 
   It is critical we keep the national commitments to the most vulnerable members of our society. That commitment cannot be fulfilled by slashing title 20 funds by over 50 percent. The President has said he would veto this bill in its current form. He cited the deep cuts in title 20 as a key reason for doing so. I applaud the President if it were to be necessary--and I hope desperately it will not be necessary--to exercise that veto because of these unwise cuts in title 20 and the attempt to direct the manner in which the States will spend their tobacco settlement funds. 
   There has been a cascade of opposition to this recommendation. The National Governors' Association, the National Council of State Legislatures, and the National Association of Counties have spoken out against this cut. They are joined by over 600 Federal, State, and local groups that understand the importance of these title 20 programs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the social services block grant cut of the magnitude reflected in this bill would substantially reduce a State's ability to provide services to vulnerable children, elderly, and disabled people. Because of the dimensions of such a cut, as well as the fact that most 1999 State legislative sessions have already adjourned, most States would not be able to offset this loss with additional State funds, tobacco or otherwise. That is the real point of this debate. This debate is not about tobacco money nor is it about what States do with their dollars. This debate is about the cutting of a program that was designed to help the most vulnerable Americans to live better lives and the devastating impact such a cut will have on their lives and our communities. 
   As I come to a close, a word of caution: The raiding of title 20 programs  could serve as an example of what will happen when a program is block granted. In the eleventh hour of last year's budget debate, a budget bind had developed and the means of escaping from that bind was to use title XX funds, if you will believe it, to fund road and highway spending. Today we are again sacrificing the same social services block grant on the altar of budgetary expediency. 
   This year it is not highway funds but let's tell the States how to spend their tobacco settlement. These experiences should serve as a big red flag as we structure our social services funding. Thus far, we seem willing to use Meals on Wheels' funds to continue the illusion we are not breaking the budget caps. Will we ever fund the census from moneys from our children's educational future? If the answer to this question is yes, can similar cuts to Social Security and Medicare and other social programs critical to the well-being of millions of Americans be far behind? 
   The implications of this action this afternoon are ominous. They are odious. We have the opportunity to avoid them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I send to the desk a second-degree amendment to the amendment currently pending. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it is my understanding we are not operating under a time agreement, so there is not a clock ticking on this issue. 
   I see one of the cosponsors of the amendment, the Senator from Connecticut, is on the floor. I do not know if he desires to speak on this issue or not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I would like to reserve time to close. If there are any speakers in opposition to the amendment, I would defer to them and then I would like to close. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The arguments in favor of this amendment are numerous. The Federal Government made a commitment to the States as part of the welfare-to-work legislation that it would maintain funding for this program at the level of $2.38 billion each year. That commitment was made out of a recognition of the importance of the programs funded through title XX of the Social Security Act toward achieving the results, the goals of welfare to work. We are about to breach that commitment--not just to breach it, we are about to obliterate that commitment. 
   Second, the proposal directs the States to spend a portion of their tobacco settlement to replace these Federal funds, the funds we have committed to make available to the States. 
   We have voted in this Senate on numerous occasions, by margins of 70 to 30 or more, against that specific proposition, against the attempt of the Federal Government to play big father and direct the States as to how they should use their tobacco settlement money. Now, having beaten back the efforts at the front door, we see this effort coming in through the back door saying: Well, we are not going to tell you that you have to spend your money. We are just going to cut over half of a critical Federal partnership program with the States, a program we committed to as part of the States entering into the Welfare-to-Work Program. We are just going to suggest. And, by the way, you ought to spend your tobacco money to fund it. Outrageous. 
   Third, this is not just a matter of what is in our heart; this is also what is in our mind. The reason Congress adopted this program in 1975--which, if I recall, was under the administration of President Ford--was the recognition that expenditure of Federal funds on programs that kept older Americans out of nursing homes, expenditure of Federal funds on programs that alleviated the suffering and the potential for further suffering of the disabled, saved the Federal Government money, programs that kept families together, that helped children in need, saved the Federal Government money. With almost no consideration, we are about to turn the clock back on this accomplishment of President Ford and 25 years of demonstrated success of this program in both helping people and saving the Federal Government money. 
   Most important, we are about to pick out the most vulnerable people among us and say: It is upon your back that we are going to attempt to reduce the imbalance in our budget accounts. We are going to turn to the weakest to say: You should carry the fullest load. 
   I don't want to just speak these closing remarks in my words. I will use the words of a few of the many organizations across America which, in the short period of time since the alert went out that this ridiculous action was even being considered by the most deliberative body in the world, have responded with their assessment of what this would mean. Let me mention a few of them. 
   The National Governors' Association had this to say:  
   Over the past few years, the [social services block grant] has taken more than its share of cuts in federal funding. As part of the 1996 welfare reform deal, Congress made a commitment to Governors that the SSBG would be level funded at $2.38 billion each year.  
   Congress made a commitment to the States that this funding would be maintained. Now we are about to cut that funding by more than 50 percent, according to the National Governors' Association. 
   The Fight Crime Invest in Kids Coalition, an organization that represents over 500 police chiefs, sheriffs, prosecutors, victims of violence, leaders of police organizations and violence prevention scholars, had this to say about this proposal:  
   The GRAHAM-WELLSTONE amendment to restore funding of $2.38 billion for the Title XX Social Services Block Grant would: 
   Provide over $591 million to protect children from abuse and neglect. Since abused and neglected children are almost twice as likely to become chronic offenders, it is clear these services can have an important crime prevention impact. 
   Provide $300 million to support child care in 47 States. The High/Scope Foundation study showed that quality child care can dramatically reduce the chances of children becoming criminals.  
   That is what 500 chiefs of police and sheriffs and other leaders in the criminal justice community have said about the importance of this amendment. 
   Catholic Charities USA said this in its letter:  
   Cutting funds to services that keep people independent and in their communities is short sighted and will lead to unnecessary suffering and increases in other federal programs.  
   This is what the Girl Scouts said about this proposal:  
   The further cuts to this program which have been proposed by the Senate will no doubt negatively impact our communities, most of which are already struggling with limited resources for much needed services.  
   Finally, the National Conference of State Legislatures in their letter stated:  
   The current proposal in the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services and Education appropriations legislation will jeopardize services to the elderly, disabled and children and families. It also represents a retreat from Federal commitments made during the enactment of welfare reform legislation.  
   For all of those reasons, as well as the fact that Senators KENNEDY and CLELAND have asked to be added as additional cosponsors to this amendment, I urge my colleagues to step back from the precipice of irresponsibility and repudiation of commitment, to step back from the cliff that would have us, through the back door of this ill-considered proposal, breach our commitments to the States to keep our hands off their State-won tobacco settlement, and particularly so we can look in the eyes of the American people who would  be most affected by this--the children, the disabled, and the frail elderly--and say: You are not the forgotten Americans. 
   I urge the adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Yes I have, and I thank my colleague from Texas. I must say I was very surprised by this report language, particularly considering the fact that the Senate only this year voted several times and decisively to prevent the federal government from seizing the money the States earned as  part of their tobacco settlements. Legislation that you and I offered in the Senate passed overwhelmingly, and amendments to that language to force the states to spend their settlement funds according to a specified formula were soundly rejected. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-13-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Senator for that clarification. Our effort certainly struck an unmistakable blow for states' rights, and I am pleased and proud that our states and others are now free to use their funds for children's health, health research, smoking control, and the many other health, education, and public welfare programs that they are pursuing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-14-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank my colleague for her statement, and for her leadership in this important area. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-15-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the Senate is not in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-16-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we are talking about one of those entitlement issues Senator STEVENS just described. 
   The Finance Committee of the Senate and the Ways and Means Committee of the House established the funding level for title XX of the SSBG of their bill at $2.38 billion. The appropriators have reduced that amount to $1.50 billion, a cut of over 50 percent. This violates a commitment the Congress made with the Governors in 1996 as part of the welfare-to-work legislation. Therefore, the Governors are opposing the position the committee has taken. 
   This is a backdoor violation of the commitment that 71 Senators made when we voted against having the Federal Government direct how the States' tobacco settlement was spent. 
   Why is this? Because the way in which the subcommittee recommends we make up this difference is to direct the States to use their tobacco money to fill this gap. Seventy-one Members of the Senate--48 Republicans and 23 Democrats--voted in March of this year to do exactly the opposite of what we are now being asked to do. 
   Mr. President, this is a matter of honor of the Senate and our commitment to our partners in the Federal system, the States. 
   I urge that this motion to table be defeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-17-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote and I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-18-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask that the underlying amendment, as amended, be voice voted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-19-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-20-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I would like to dispose of this matter now. 
   Mr. STEVENS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-21-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I think I had asked for the yeas and nays on the underlying amendment, as amended. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-22-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-23-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to return to my second amendment for purposes of a voice vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-24-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask for a voice vote on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleague, Senator MACK, to introduce legislation that will protect the coast of Florida in the future from the damages of offshore drilling. 
   I introduced similar legislation in last year's Congress that sought to codify the annual moratorium on leasing in the Gulf of Mexico and ensure that states receive all environmental documentation prior to making a decision on whether to allow drilling off of its shores. That legislation did not pass in the 105th Congress. 
   Today, I am introducing legislation that takes these steps, plus several others. The Florida Coast Protection Act of 2000 will protect Florida's fragile coastline from outer continental shelf leasing and drilling in three important ways. 
   First, we transform the annual moratorium on leasing and preleasing activity off the coast of Florida into a permanent ban covering Planning Areas in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, the Straits of Florida, and the South Atlantic Planning Area. 
   Second, the Florida Coast Protection Act corrects an egregious conflict in regulatory provisions where an effected state is required to make a consistency determination for proposed oil and gas production or development under the Coastal Zone Management Act prior to receiving the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) from the Mineral Management Service. 
   Our bill requires that the EIS is provided to affected states 6 months before they make a consistency determination, and it requires that every oil and gas development plan have an EIS completed prior to development. 
   Third, our bill corrects the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act and ensures that oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to the same rules and regulations that apply to oil and gas leases in other areas. 
   What would this bill mean for Florida? The elimination of preleasing activity and lease sales off the coast of Florida protects our economic and environmental future. 
   More than 100 years ago, my grandfather settled in Northwest Florida. My mother grew up near the Gulf of Mexico in Walton County. For years, I have taken my children and grandchildren to places like Grayton Beach so that they can appreciate the natural treasures and local cultures that are port of both their own heritage and that of the Florida Panhandle. 
   We have a solemn obligation to preserve these important aspects of our state's history for all of 
   our children and grandchildren. Much of our identity as Floridians is tied to the thousands of miles of pristine coastline that link Jacksonville to Miami and Key West to Pensacola. 
   The Florida coastline will not be safe if offshore oil and gas resources are developed. For example, a 1997 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study indicated that even in the absence of oil leakage, a typical oil rig can discharge between 6,500 and 13,000 barrels of waste per year. The same study also warned of further harmful impact on marine mammal populations, fish populations, and air quality. 
   Nor are leakages or waste discharge the only drilling-related environmental consequences. Physical disturbances caused by anchoring, pipeline placement, rig construction, and the resuspension of bottom sediments can  also be destructive. Given these conclusions, it isn't hard to imagine the environmental havoc that oil or natural gas drilling could wreak along the sensitive Panhandle coastline. 
   Because the Gulf of Mexico's natural beauty and diverse habitats attract visitors from all over the world and support a variety of commercial activities, an oil or natural gas accident in the Gulf of Mexico could also have a crippling effect on the Northwest Florida economy. In 1996, the cities of Panama City, Pensacola, and Fort Walton Beach reported $1.5 billion in sales to tourists. That same year, the Panhandle's five westernmost counties generated more than $8 million in public revenues from visitors paying the state's tourist development tax. And Florida's fishing industry benefits from the fact that nearly 90 percent of reef fish caught in the Gulf of Mexico come from the West Florida continental shelf. 
   Florida's fishing industry benefits from the fact that nearly 90 percent of reef fish caught in the Gulf of Mexico come from the West Florida continental shelf. 
   For the last several years, I have been working with Senator CONNIE MACK, U.S. Congressman JOE SCARBOROUGH, and others to head off the threat of oil and natural gas drilling. In June of 1997, we introduced legislation to cancel six natural gas leases seventeen miles off the Pensacola coast and compensate Mobil Oil Corporation for its investment. Five days after the introduction of that legislation and two months before it was scheduled to begin exploratory drilling off Florida's Panhandle, Mobile ended its operation and returned its leases to the federal government. 
   While that action meant that Panhandle residents faced one less economic and environmental catastrophe-in-the-making, it did not completely eliminate the threats posed by oil and natural gas drilling off Florida's Gulf Coast. Florida's Congressional representatives fight hard each year to extend the federal moratorium on new oil and natural gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico. But that solution is temporary. So in June of 1998, we introduced the Florida Gulf Coast Protection Act to prevent the federal government from issuing leases in the future. 
   This legislation did not pass during the 105th Congress. Today we are introducing the Florida Gulf Coast Protection Act for the year 2000. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to move this legislation forward and protect the coast of Florida for our children and grandchildren. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we would like to engage the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, in a brief colloquy regarding Barry University in Miami Shores, Florida. Through the outstanding leadership of sister Jeanne O'Laughlin, Barry has had a strong history of addressing important Miami community issues like urbanization, ethnic diversity, community development and cultural understanding. Many of Barry's students are first-generation college students and ethnic minorities. Recently the University announced the planning of an Intercultural Community Center that is designed to promote necessary neighborhood and small business revitalization. The new facility will also be a hub for ongoing workforce development and service learning literacy training for the local community. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, 6 months ago today on March 24, 1999, the United States and its allies launched Operation Allied Force in the Balkan region. To commemorate this event, I am submitting a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that the men and women assigned to and employed by Eglin Air Force Base should be recognized and commended for their participation in, and efforts associated with, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's (NATO) Operation Allied Force. 
   The personnel of the Air Armament Center at Eglin Air Force Base developed and provided many of the munitions, technical orders, expertise and support equipment utilized by NATO during the air campaign. Specifically, the two thousand pound Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) was the first weapon dropped in the operation. Additionally, the Air to Ground 130 (AGM 130) standoff missile enabled F15E Strike Eagle aircrews to attack targets with precision from a distance of forty miles. 
   The reliable performances of the JDAM and AGM 130 enabled combat air crews to complete bombing missions accurately, effectively, and with reduced risk to crews. The result was zero casualties among NATO air personnel. 
   The availability of these arms was the result of the vision of the Air Armament Center personnel who recognized years earlier that these munitions would be important to American armament. 
   The brave service personnel from Eglin Air Force Base--and their families--sacrificed much in support of Operation Allied Force. We express our deepest gratitude to them. We recognize that their efforts allowed NATO to conduct an air war with no American combat casualties, yet with a devastating effect on our adversaries. 
   We commit to maintaining the technological superiority of American air armament as a critical component of our nation's capacity to conduct and prevail in warfare while minimizing casualties.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Senator. 
   I appreciate this opportunity to make a few remarks on the issues before us today, which I think has three component parts. 
   The first relates to just what is involved in the change that has been recommended by the Department of the Interior, the change the amendment offered today would frustrate. 
   I see we have the principal author of the amendment on the floor, and so I might ask a short series of questions, and hopefully, before we conclude this debate, we can have some further information. 
   Based on the statement that was made earlier today, this increase that would be the result of the Department of the Interior's new regulatory change was characterized as a tax. 
   It has been my understanding that what we are talking about is a contractual royalty payment; that is, a payment that is made by the user of this Federal resource--petroleum--as the economic condition of gaining access to that Federal resource. 
   This is not a tax in terms of an imposed burden upon a commercial transaction. This is in the nature of a payment for a product which belongs to the people of the United States which is now going to be used by a specific private firm. I would like some discussion as to why the word ``tax'' is being used to apply to this transaction. 
   A second concern I have from the earlier discussion of this amendment is the issue of effect on consumers. It was inferred that the effect of this would be to directly increase the price of the petroleum that was used by the American consumer. 
   It had been my understanding that the way in which the price of petroleum was controlled was in a world marketplace of petroleum and that individual companies did not have the power to pass on their cost to the ultimate consumer. If they do, then that infers a level of monopolistic control of the petroleum economy which raises its own set of concerns. 
   So I would like to know by what economic relationship this particular group of oil companies would be able to pass on to their consumers whatever was ultimately considered to be the appropriate royalty level for their access to the resource that belongs to the American people. 
   There has been a chart displayed which shows at the bottom the cost of the petroleum product itself, and then at the top the taxes which are levied. 
   I would assume we are now talking about the bottom part of that chart because we are not talking about taxes, we are talking about royalties that are being paid. 
   I would like to have some discussion as to just how much of that bottom portion of the chart is the issue that is at debate today. 
   Clearly, no one says there should be no royalty paid to the taxpayers of America for the use of their resource. How much, therefore, of that total cost is what is at controversy. 
   Finally, there is the issue of regulatory complexity. I have seen the chart that shows a rabbit warren of boxes and arrows and relationships. I would be interested in seeing a similar chart as to what the status quo is. 
   Is the process by which we are arriving at the pricing mechanism for petroleum under the new Department of the Interior regulations significantly more complex than those which are being used to arrive at the method of pricing petroleum under the current standards? If so, where are the particular areas of increased or altered or even reduced complexity? 
   So those would be three questions. I hope the proponents of this amendment will use some of their time to illuminate. So that is the first question. 
   The second question is the effect of this debate on the Congress itself. 
   I am a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the committee that has basic jurisdiction over this issue. There has been an inference that the Department of the Interior has gone beyond its rulemaking authority in adopting this provision. It has even been implied that maybe the Department of the Interior has been tainted by some of the activities of its individual personnel and the way in which this new rule was developed. Those are serious charges. 
   As a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee--and I will be prepared, if the chairman or others will point out where I am in error--I do not believe we have held any hearings on this issue. Yet we have allowed this matter to now come to the Senate floor as a nongermane amendment to an appropriations bill, a position which is basically in conflict with our recently adopted rule that says we cannot offer matters of general legislation on appropriations bills. But by some relatively clever drafting--and I extend congratulations to those smart people--we have been able to evade the clear intent of the rule that says no legislation on an appropriation. 
   In fact, this issue, the way in which it is being handled, makes the case as to why our rule is wise, that we ought to be dealing with legislation through committees that have responsibility for legislation, such as the Energy and Natural Resources Committee; we should not be doing it on an appropriations bill. 
   It does raise the question of why we are doing this. There is a certain unseemliness to bringing up this issue in this manner. It raises the question our colleague from Wisconsin discussed earlier today; that is, Is this going to be the poster child for the mixture of decisions made by Congress and the economic influence, through campaign finance, of those industries that will be the clear beneficiary of those decisions? 
   I personally have resisted those kinds of linkages because that puts everything we do under a cloud of suspicion. But the way in which this is being handled will give ammunition to those who wish to attack the basic integrity of this institution. 
   It is unnecessary for us to lay ourselves open to that attack. What we ought to do is have a hearing in the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, invite in all the people who are knowledgeable, have a serious public airing of this question, and then see if legislation should be passed to rein in excessive or inappropriate behavior by the Department of the Interior. We should not be doing this, passing legislation on an appropriations bill. 
   The third issue is, What is at stake? The resources that will not become available as a result of the passage of this amendment, how would they otherwise have been deployed? The royalties that come from the Federal Government's leasing for oil and gas production are a key part of our public land trust. Currently, a portion of these royalties goes to the Land and Water Conservation Fund which provides the means by which a variety of Federal, State, and local activities have traditionally been funded. 
   The Energy Committee is currently considering legislation that would expand and make permanent the use of other portions of this royalty program for a variety of uses. The Senator from Louisiana has introduced legislation that would have it used to offset some of the adverse impacts along the coastal areas of 
   those States which are the principal offshore oil and gas production areas. Others would have the funds used for public acquisition of lands that would be significant for a variety of public purposes, including environmental and recreational. Others would have them used for coastal protection purposes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. What is at stake is, will we have adequate resources, properly directed, to deal with these national issues, including the crisis that is in our national park system. 
   The question we must ask ourselves as we vote on this amendment and as we vote on the underlying legislation to which it is being offered is, Can we live up to the legacy of our forefathers and mothers and protect our Federal land trust? 
   We are about to begin the fourth century of our Nation's history. We were formed at the end of the 18th century, had our maturation in the 19th century, and now, in the 20th century, have grown to the great power and source of influence for values that we consider to be fundamental--human rights, democracy--in the 20th century. 
   The first two of our centuries that were full centuries, the 19th and now the 20th, were highlighted by activism on public lands issues. The 19th century began with the Presidency of Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson's most renowned action as President was the purchase of Louisiana from France. That single act added almost 530 million acres to the United States. That action changed America from an eastern coastal nation to a continental power. 
   This century, the 20th century, was marked by the addition to the public land trust led by President Theodore Roosevelt. While in the White House, between 1901 and 1909, President Theodore Roosevelt designated 150 national forests, the first 51 Federal bird reservations, 5 national parks, the first 18 national monuments, the first 4 national game preserves, the first 21 reclamation projects. He also established the National Wildlife Refuge System, beginning with the designation of 
   Pelican Island in my State of Florida as a national wildlife refuge in 1903. 
   Together, these projects equated to Federal protection of almost 230 million acres, a land area equivalent to that of all the east coast States from Maine to Florida and just under half of the Louisiana Purchase. That is what the first President in the 19th century, Thomas Jefferson, and the first President in the 20th century, Theodore Roosevelt, did for America. That was their legacy. 
   Clearly, the question we are going to have to answer to our children and grandchildren is, Did you live up to the standards of Thomas Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt? Roosevelt said: We must ask ourselves if we are leaving for future generations an environment that is as good as or better than what we found. Can we meet that test? 
   As we enter the 21st century, the fourth century of our Nation's history, we must again ask ourselves this question. We must be prepared to take action to meet the challenge. I argue that the underlying bill to which this amendment is attached and to which this amendment would further delete resources to meet that challenge of Theodore Roosevelt, while it takes some steps towards meeting his challenge, fails to fully commit to the protection of our Federal land trust. 
   In 1916, Congress created the National Park Service. In doing so, it stated that the purposes of the National Park Service were:  
   To conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wildlife therein and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations. ``..... will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations.'' 
   That is what our predecessor said in 1916 was the purpose of the National Park System. 
   Today the unimpaired status of our national parks is severely at risk. On April 22 of this year, the National Parks and Conservation Association identified the 1999 list of the 10 most endangered national parks. In his opening remarks, Mr. Tom Kiernan, the President of the National Parks and Conservation Association, stated:  
   These parks were chosen not because they were the only parks with endangered resources, but because they demonstrate the resource damages that are occurring in all of our parks.  
   These parks demonstrate the breadth of the threats faced by our National Park System. For example, Chaco Culture National Historical Park in Chaco Canyon, NM, contains the remains of 13 major structures that represent the highest point of pueblo pre-Columbian civilization. In the words of the National Park and Conservation Association:  
   It is falling victim to time and neglect. Weather damage, inadequate preservation, neglected maintenance, tourism impacts, and potential resource development on adjacent lands threaten the long-term life of these pre-Columbian structures.  
   All of the parks in the Florida Everglades region were included on the list of the most endangered. In this area, decades of manipulation of the water system has led to loss of significant quantities of Florida's water supply to tide every day; it has led to a 90-percent decline in the wading bird population; it has led to an invasion of non-native plants and animals and to a shrinking wildlife habitat. The National Parks and Conservation Association calls Yellowstone National Park the 
   ``poster child for the neglect that has marred our national parks.'' 
   We have all heard Senator THOMAS and others speak about the degradation of the sewage handling and treatment system at Yellowstone National Park, a situation that caused spills into Yellowstone Lake and nearby meadows, sending more than 225,000 gallons of sewage into Yellowstone's waterways, threatening the water quality of this resource. 
   It is not just these beautiful natural areas that are threatened. One of the areas on the 10 most-endangered list, not far from where we stand this late afternoon, is Gettysburg National Park, the site of one of our greatest historic moments. There, because of inadequate maintenance and attention, we are losing some of the most precious historical artifacts of our Nation. 
   These are illustrative of what is occurring across our National Park System. Estimates of the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service range from a low of $1.2 billion to $3.54 billion. The National Park Service developed a 5-year plan to meet this deferred maintenance obligation. It was based on its ability to execute funds and its priorities within the National Park System. In this year's appropriation process, the House and Senate have modified the national parks' request of $194 million. The House, for instance, reduced the request by almost $25 million. If we are to ever make a dent in our enormous backlog, we must support the national park plan to systematically reduce this accumulation of deferred maintenance. 
   In addition, if we are to prevent the backlog from growing, we must support periodic maintenance on the existing facilities in the park system. The Senate reduced both cyclic maintenance and repair and rehabilitation in the operation and the maintenance account of the Park Service by $3 million and $2.5 million, respectively. While you may say these are small dollar amounts in the large budget of the National Park System, failure to meet these basic annual maintenance requirements will cause our backlog to grow in the long run and will cause the severity of the threat to our national parks to increase. 
   Neither the operation and maintenance account nor the construction account is designed specifically to meet the natural resources needs of the park system. 
   This year, the National Park Service is seeking to change this with the Natural Resource Challenge, announced earlier this year by National Park Service Director Bob Stanton. 
   This plan will change decisionmaking in the Park Service as manager's make resource preservation and conservation an integral consideration in all management actions. 
   To support this program, the National Park Service requested $16 million in the fiscal year 2000 Interior appropriations bill. 
   During this fiscal year, these funds will be focused on the completion of  natural resource inventories to be used by park managers in decisionmaking. 
   These funds will support large-scale preservation projects and target restoration of threatened areas damaged by human disturbance. 
   After considering the National Park Service's Natural Resource Challenge appropriations request, the House fully funded the base program with $16.235 million. 
   The Senate significantly reduced the funds for this program, providing a total of only $6 million. 
   This shortfall will extend the time period for completion of baseline inventories for all 260 park units from 7 to 14 years, delaying the time period when the Park Service will be able to identify a ``natural resource backlog'' similar to the construction backlog it currently uses. 
   The actions taken by the Senate and the House do not meet the challenge posed by Theodore Roosevelt to leave our environment in a better state than we found it. 
   I sympathize with the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, and I respect the actions they have been able to take over the last several years to support the needs of the National Park System. 
   However, there is a limit to what the Appropriations Subcommittee can do given the tools they have. 
   They are working to fund 20th century needs for construction and natural resource preservation using a 19th century funding mechanism. 
   The National Park Service needs a sustained, reliable funding source that will allow it to develop intelligent plans based on prioritization of need, not availability of funds. 
   Last year, Senator THOMAS led the way with his landmark legislation on the National Park Service, Vision 2020. 
   This legislation adopted, for the first time, both concessions reform and science-based decisionmaking on resource needs within the park service. 
   We took a big step forward last year with the extension of the fee demonstration program. 
   This allows individual parks to charge entrance fees and use a portion of the proceeds for maintenance backlog and natural resource projects. 
   This action generates about $100 million annually throughout the park system. It is time for the next step. 
   Earlier this year, I introduced legislation with Senators REID and MACK, S. 819, the National Park Preservation Act, that would provide dedicated funding to the National Park Service to restore and conserve the natural resources within our park system. 
   This legislation seeks to address the long-term efforts required to truly restore and protect our natural, cultural, and historic resources in our park system. 
   The legislation would reallocate funds derived from the use of a nonrenewable resource--offshore drilling in the outer continental shelf--to a renewable resource--restoration and preservation of natural, cultural, and historic resources in our national park system. 
   These funds provided by our bill would ensure that each year the National Park Service will have the resources it needs to restore and prevent damages to the natural, cultural, and historic resources in our park system. 
   I am working with the members of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to include a version of this legislation in the final package of the ``Outer Continental Shelf Revenue'' legislation under consideration by that Committee. 
   Last week, I circulated a dear colleague requesting that each of you join me in this effort. 
   As we move to final passage on the Interior appropriations bill and final negotiations on the OCS revenue legislation, I urge you to remember this quote from Theodore Roosevelt quote,  
   Nothing short of defending this country during wartime compares in importance with the great central task of leaving this land even a better land for our descendants than it is for us.  
   We have serious needs in many areas of our national land trust. If we are to meet the standard set by Theodore Roosevelt almost a century ago, we must not be depleting our capacity to do this by underfunding and by reducing the funds that are available to meet these national park and other national land demands. We must be looking, creatively, for ways to provide sustained, adequate funding sources. That is what is at issue in this debate. 
   Are we going to succumb to the request of a floor amendment to an appropriations bill to reduce the funds available to meet our national land trust responsibilities or are we going to both defeat this amendment and then step forward in the underlying bill to provide the resources necessary to meet the crisis that exists in our national parks and in many of our other national land trusts? 
   I hope we will hear the call from a century in the past of Theodore Roosevelt, that we be prepared to be judged by whether we have left to our children and our grandchildren a better America than our parents and grandparents gave to us. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I join my friend from Florida in support of this project. The building will serve as a full-service facility not only for the college's 2,300 students, but also the 28,000 citizens of West Daytona Beach. The facility would allow the college to expand its long record of exemplary service to low-income and disadvantaged residents in the community. I would appreciate the Chairman working with his  colleagues on the conference to find funding for this important project in FY 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, if I could have the attention of the Chairman for a moment to address another important project to the State of Florida, the Alternative Water Source Projects. These central Florida water projects are providing valuable assistance to local governments in devising alternative and expanded water supplies for the region. To date, the federal government has provided $46.6 million toward this important effort. This project was also funded in the House of Representatives but did not receive funding in this bill. I would also appreciate the Chairman's consideration of Florida's ongoing water-related needs as this bill goes to conference with the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I would agree with the comments of my Florida colleague and add that the federal government has been working through the National Estuary Program to help it address this problem in previous years. During this year's appropriations process, we requested a grant out of the State and tribal assistance grant portion of this bill to continue this process. It would be my hope that the Chairman would work with us and with the other members of the upcoming conference committee to find funding for this project. It has the full support of Florida's House delegation and I would appreciate the Chairman's support as we move toward the next stage of the process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, along with my colleagues, Senator JEFFORDS, Senator CHAFEE, Senator BRYAN, Senator ROCKEFELLER, and Senator KERRY to introduce the Medicare Wellness Act. The Medicare Wellness Act represents a concerted effort by myself and my distinguished colleagues to change the fundamental focus of the Medicare program. 
   It changes the program from one that simply treats illness and disability, to one that is also proactive. It enhances the focus on health promotion and disease prevention for Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Mr. President, despite common misperceptions, declines in health status are not inevitable with age. A healthier lifestyle, even one adopted later in life, can increase active life expectancy and decrease disability. This fact is a major reason why the Medicare Wellness Act has support from a broad range of groups, including the National Council on Aging, Partnership for Prevention, American Heart Association, and the National Osteoporosis Foundation. 
   The most significant aspect of this bill is its addition of several new preventative screening and counseling benefits to the Medicare program. The benefits being added focus on some of the most prominent, underlying risk factors for illness that face all Medicare beneficiaries, including: screening for hypertension, counseling for tobacco cessation, screening for glaucoma, counseling for hormone replacement therapy, screening for vision and hearing loss, expanded screening and counseling for osteoporosis, and screening for cholesterol. 
   The new benefits added by the Medicare Wellness Act represent the highest recommendations for Medicare beneficiaries of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force--recognized as the gold standard within the prevention community. Attacking these prominent risk factors will reduce Medicare beneficiaries' risk for health problems such as stroke, diabetes, osteoporosis, heart disease, and blindness. 
   The addition of these new benefits would accelerate the fundamental shift, that began in 1997 under the Balanced Budget Act, in the Medicare program from a sickness program to a wellness program. Prior to 1997, only three preventive benefits were available to beneficiaries: pneumococcal vaccines, pap smears, and mammography. 
   Other major components of our bill include the establishment of the Healthy Seniors Promotion Program. This program will be led by an interagency work group within the Department of Health and Human Services. It will bring together all the agencies within HHS that address the medical, social and behavioral issues affecting the elderly and instructs them to undertake a series of studies which will increase knowledge about and utilization of prevention services among the elderly. 
   In addition, the Medicare Wellness Act incorporates an aggressive applied and original research effort that will investigate ways to improve the utilization of current and new preventive benefits and to investigate new methods of improving the health of Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Mr. President, this latter point is critical. The fact is that there are a number of prevention-related services available to Medicare beneficiaries today, including mammograms and colorectal cancer screening. But those services are seriously underutilized. 
   In a study published by Dartmouth University this spring (The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care 1999), it was found that only 28 percent of women age 65-69 receive mammograms and only 12 percent of beneficiaries were screened for colorectal cancer. These are disturbing figures and they clearly demonstrate the need to find new and better ways to increase the rates of utilization of proven, demonstrated prevention services. Our bill would get us the information we need to increase rates of utilization for these services. 
   Further, our bill would establish a health risk appraisal and education program aimed at major behavioral risk factors such as diet, exercise, alcohol and tobacco use, and depression. This program will target both pre-65 individuals and current Medicare beneficiaries. 
   The main goal of this program is to increase awareness among individuals of major risk factors that impact on health, to change personal health habits, improve health status, and save the Medicare program money. Our bill would require the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, known as MedPAC, to report to Congress every two years and assess how the program needs to change over time in order to reflect modern benefits and treatment. 
   Shockingly, this is information that Congress currently does not receive on a routine basis. And this is a contributing factor to why we find ourselves today in a quandary over the outdated nature of the Medicare program. Quite frankly, Medicare hasn't kept up with the rest of the health care world. 
   While a vintage wine from the 1960s may be desirable, a health care system that is vintage 1965 is not. We need to do better. 
   Our bill would also require the Institute of Medicine (IOM) to conduct a study every five years to assess the scientific validity of the entire preventive benefits package. The study will be presented to Congress in a manner that mirrors The Trade Act of 1974. 
   The IOM's recommendations would be presented to Congress in legislative form. Congress would then have 60 days to review and then either accept or reject the IOM's recommendations for changes to the Medicare program. But Congress could not change the IOM's recommendations. 
   This ``fast-track'' process is a deliberate effort to get Congress out of the business of micro-managing the Medicare program. While limited to preventive benefits, this will offer a litmus test on a new approach to future Medicare decision making. 
   In the aggregate, The Medicare Wellness Act represents the most comprehensive legislative proposal in the 106th Congress for the Medicare program focused on health promotion and disease prevention for beneficiaries. It provides new screening and counseling benefits for beneficiaries, it provides critically needed research dollars, and it tests new treatment concepts through demonstration programs. 
   The Medicare Wellness Act represents sound health policy based on sound science. Before I conclude, I have a few final thoughts. 
   There are many here in Congress who argue that at a time when Medicare faces an uncertain financial future, this is the last time to be adding new benefits to a program that can ill afford the benefits it currently offers. 
   Normally I would agree with this assertion. But the issue of prevention is different. The old adage of ``an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure'' is very relevant here. 
   Does making preventive benefits available to Medicare beneficiaries ``cost'' money? Sure it does. But the return on the investment, the avoidance of the pound of cure and the related improvement in quality of life is unmistakable. 
   Along these lines, a longstanding problem facing lawmakers and advocates of prevention has been the position taken by the Congressional Budget Office, as it evaluates the budgetary impact of all legislative proposals. 
   Only costs incurred by the Federal government over the next ten years can be considered in weighing the ``cost'' of adding new benefits. From a public health and quality of life standpoint, this premise is unacceptable. 
   Among the problems with this practice is that ``savings'' incurred by increasing the availability and utilization of preventive benefits often occur over a period of time greater than 10 years. This problem is best illustrated in an examination of the ``compression of morbidity'' theory developed by Dr. James Fries of Stanford University over 20 years ago. 
   According to Dr. Fries, by delaying the onset of chronic illness among seniors, there is a resulting decrease in the length of time illness or disability is present in the latter stages of life. This ``compression'' improves quality of life and reduces the rate of growth in health care costs. But, these changes are gradual and occur over an extended period of time--10, 20, even 30 years. 
   With the average life expectancy of individuals who reach 65 being nearly 20 years--20 years for women and 18 years for men--it only makes sense to look at services and benefits that improve quality of life and reduce costs to the Federal government for that 20 year lifespan. 
   In addition to increased lifespan, a ten year budget scoring window doesn't factor into consideration the impact of such services on the private sector, such as increased productivity and reduced absenteeism, for the many seniors that continue working beyond age 65. The bottom line is, the most important reason to cover preventive services is to improve health. 
   As the end of the century nears, children born now are living nearly 30 years longer than children born in 1900. 
   While prevention services in isolation won't reduce costs, they will moderate increases in the utilization and spending on more expensive acute and chronic treatment services. 
   As Congress considers different ways to reform Medicare, two basic questions regarding preventive services and the elderly must be part of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am concerned about how this appropriation fits into the overall caps on Federal expenditures for domestic discretionary programs that were adopted in 1997, and then the more recent recommendations of the Congressional Budget Office, which were the basis of the tax bill we passed earlier this summer. Could the Senator indicate, is this budget, in terms of its total appropriation, consistent with the 1997 Balanced Budget Act and the CBO recommendation of 1999? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. In relationship to the Congressional Budget Office recommendations of this summer, does the Senator know where this appropriation would be? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you. 
   Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Rule XVI motion offered by my colleagues, Senators BAUCUS and CHAFEE. 
   The changes to the TEA 21 funding formulas included in the transportation appropriations bill are unacceptable. They will have a severe impact on the ability of the National Park Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs to meet their responsibilities in managing our nation's public land trust. 
   The question we face today on this appropriations bill is one of many that will determine the answer to the larger question, can we live up to the legacy of our forefathers and protect our federal land trust? 
   We are beginning the third century of our nation's history. The first and second were highlighted by activism on public lands issues. 
   The first century was marked by the Louisiana Purchase, and added almost 530 million acres to the United States, which changed America from an eastern, coastal nation to one covering the entire continent. 
   The second century was marked by additions to the public land trust, led by President Theodore Roosevelt. 
   While in White House between 1901 and 1909, he designated 150 National Forests; the first 51 Federal Bird Reservations; 5 National Parks; the first 18 National Monuments; the first 4 National Game Preserves; and the first 21 Reclamation Projects. 
   He also established the National Wildlife refuge System, beginning with the Pelican Island National Wildlife Refuge in Florida in 1903. 
   Together, these projects equated to federal protection for almost 230 million acres, a land area equivalent to that of all the East coast states from Maine to Florida and just under one-half of the area purchased in the Louisiana purchase. 
   Roosevelt said, ``We must ask ourselves if we are leaving for future generations an environment that is as good, or better, than what we found.'' 
   As we enter the third century of our history, we must again ask ourselves this question and take action to meet this challenge. 
   The action taken with the language in the Transportation Appropriations bill does not meet this challenge. 
   In 1916, Congress created the National Park Service:  
   ..... To conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wildlife therein and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations.  
   The ``unimpaired'' status of our national parks and our refuges is at-risk. The language in the Transportation Appropriations amendment would reduce funds in the Federal Lands Highways Program by $1 million for the Fish and Wildlife Service; $12 million for the National Park Service; and $14 million for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
   The National Park System and the Fish and Wildlife Service have extreme needs for these funds. We are all aware of the infrastructure needs for transportation faced by Grand Canyon National Park that were highlighted in the August 20 USA Today. I ask unanimous consent that this article be inserted into the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 
   The Fish and Wildlife Service has similar needs within the National Wildlife Refuge System. Last year, in the state of Florida, the Wildlife Drive at the J.N. Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge located on Sanibel Island, Florida was closed for over 2 weeks when one of the seven water control structures under the road was washed out by heavy rains. 
   After this incident, the Ft. Myers Daily editorialized on this subject, stating:  
   The Wildlife Drive is a huge success, a blessing to the old and infirm who can comfortably enjoy great recreation from their cars. It's a place where countless curious novices and bored children have been bitten by the bug of bird watching ..... And for all that, it is still a must on the list of world-traveled ornithologists ..... Fish and Wildlife [Service] needs to ..... fix this crown jewel of American ecotourism.  
   This article calls for action by the Fish and Wildlife Service. However, this is our responsibility. We, the Congress, must recognize the responsibility we have to maintain our public lands in the park system and the wildlife refuge system.  
   As we consider this motion, let us remember the challenge that President Theodore Roosevelt posed for us with his words, ``We must ask ourselves if we are leaving for future generations an environment that is as good, or better, than what we found.'' 
   Mr. SHELBY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee if he would consent to discuss with Senator MACK and me one of Florida's national wildlife refuges, the Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge in Brevard County, Florida. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge is located in Brevard County, Florida, home of Florida's ``Space Coast.'' The 900-acre refuge extends along the coast from Melbourne Beach to Wabasso Beach, and it is home to the most important nesting area for loggerhead sea turtles in the western hemisphere and the second most important nesting beach in the world. Twenty-five percent of all loggerhead sea turtle and 35% of all green sea turtle nests in the United States occur in this twenty mile zone. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. It is my experience that in this type of situation, the best answer is land acquisition. Right now, approximately half of the 900-acres of the designated refuge is available for acquisition. Four key parcels make up the core area of the potential acquisition. 
   I recognize the extreme funding pressures that the subcommittee faced while determining its Land and Water Conservation Fund priorities. We feel that the Archie Carr Refuge is a key priority for Florida given its criticality to the loggerhead sea turtle population. 
   We request your consideration of this project during the conference with the House on the Interior Appropriations bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That is my understanding, and we are prepared to proceed with our amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Kasey Gillette of our staff have floor privileges for the duration of the consideration of the Interior appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be temporarily laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this amendment, which has been cosponsored by Senators ENZI, BRYAN, REID, VOINOVICH, GRAMS of Minnesota, LUGAR, SESSIONS, and BAYH, has been before the Senate on several previous occasions. It essentially goes to the issue of what will be the process to determine whether on Indian properties there shall be allowed class III gambling. Class III gambling is the type of gambling that occurs in Las Vegas and Atlantic City. It is what we would characterize as casino gambling. Currently, for that gambling to occur, there has to be a compact entered into between the representatives of the Indian tribe and the Governor of the State in which the proposed casino would be located. This is all part of the Indian Gaming Act passed by the Congress in the past. 
   The Secretary of the Interior, earlier this year, on April 12, issued a regulation that essentially said if he determined the States were not negotiating  on these compacts in good faith, then he could remove that power from the States, and the Secretary of the Interior would decide whether there should be class III gambling under the aegis of Indian tribes. 
   I personally think that is a very bad idea. It disrupts the basic principle of federalism, the responsibility which this Congress has placed with the States and the tribes to reach an agreement. 
   In my own State of Florida, we have a prohibition in our constitution against casino gambling. Three times since 1978 there have been attempts to amend the constitution and change that provision, and each time they have been overwhelmingly defeated. This would have the effect of overturning three constitutional expressions of opinion by the people of Florida, and similar expressions of opinion by citizens of other States, to have the Secretary of the Department of the Interior insert his or her will as to casino gambling within that State. 
   At this time, unless there is further debate, I will yield my time. We will not necessarily ask for a rollcall vote on this matter if it can, as in the past, be resolved by a voice vote. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, on April 12, 1999, Thomas Jefferson must have turned over in his grave. That Monday, the Secretary of the Interior promulgated a regulation which had the potential to unilaterally strip the duly elected Governors of America of their decision-making authority on the issue of casino gambling. 
   That day, the Secretary published regulations that would circumvent the State-tribal compact negotiation process by allowing tribes to apply directly to the Department of Interior for the approval of Class III gaming. If the Secretary determines that the State and tribe have not been able to reach an agreement, he, alone, can grant the tribes the authority to engage in Class III gaming. 
   Class III gaming is the sort of gambling you might find in Atlantic City or Las Vegas--blackjack, slot machines, craps, roulette. 
   It's an old story, Mr. President: Washington knows best. But in an era when we have correctly determined that political decisions are best made at the State and local level, this complete abrogation of States' rights is particularly outrageous. Today, Senator ENZI and I are taking steps to reverse the Interior Department's power grab. Our amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill would preserve the fundamental right of every State to decide whether or not it wants Class III Indian gaming within its borders. It would block these efforts to unilaterally approve tribal casino-style gambling applications by prohibiting the use of Department of Interior funds for the implementation of the Secretary's final rule.  
   The final rule publication on April 12 is fraught with long-term consequences. If we allow the long-standing tribal-State negotiation process to be bypassed, we will undermine a dialogue which has promoted greater understanding between both parties in the negotiation of gaming compacts. 
   This amendment does not limit the ability of tribes to obtain Class III casino-style gambling provided that tribes and States enter into valid compacts pursuant to existing law. 
   But even more importantly, Department of Interior's action calls into question the basic right of States to make decisions that are in the best interest of their residents. In the State of Florida, our Constitution prohibits this sort of gambling, and in 1978, 1986, and 1994, Floridians overwhelmingly rejected casino gambling in three separate statewide referendums. State and local law enforcement officials are equally vehement in their opposition. 
   Mr. President, our amendment has the support of the National Governors Association, National Association of Attorneys General, National League of Cities, and the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
   Four times in the past three years, an amendment similar to this one has been offered in the Senate, and all four times it has been accepted. Should it fail this time, the Interior Department will have unfettered power to grant Class III gaming compacts over State objections, even in State where casino gambling is against State law, including in States like Florida, where casino gambling is prohibited by the State constitution. 
   This amendment neither affects existing tribal-State compacts nor amends the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. It does protect States' rights and ensures that elected State leaders--not unelected Federal officials--have the right to negotiate gaming compacts based on public sentiment. 
   I hope that my colleagues will join Senator ENZI, our cosponsors, and myself in supporting this amendment. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair and thank my colleague, the chairman. 
   Mr. President, last year we learned a very satisfying and important lesson. That is that there are rewards for fiscal discipline. After almost three decades of deficits and mounting national debt, we finally were able to eke out a small surplus. The very prospect of that small surplus has been a major contribution to one of the longest and most expansive periods of economic growth in our Nation's history. This fiscal discipline helped us to create favorable economic and fiscal conditions to address our long-term national challenges, especially our long-term commitments in Social Security and Medicare. 
   This, frankly, is a time of national celebration. The question is, What kind of celebration? Will it be a prudent and patriotic celebration of our success where we will channel our justified enthusiasm for our accomplishment into positive national family and individual goals or will it be a wanton and reckless celebration? Because our success, our opportunity to celebrate, did not give us license to return to the free spending, free period of increased indebtedness of the recent past. No. We owe it to our children and our grandchildren to save this money, to save this money until we have dealt with our future obligations to them. 
   Unfortunately, several major legislative actions in the 105th, now the 106th, Congress have made a mockery of our promise to maintain fiscal discipline. As an example, in February of this year, the Senate passed a military pay bill, with great enthusiasm and with great acclamations among those who would be particularly benefited and who hoped that it would strengthen our national security. The problem is, we did not provide a means of paying for it. So we were, in essence, saying we will pay for it out of our surplus. 
   If last February's legislation was just an aberration, a momentary lack of judgment, an inadvertent haste to turn from impeachment to legislation, it might have been forgiven. Sadly, it cannot be so characterized. It, in fact, was part of a pattern of a continued lack of fiscal discipline. It was the second time, in fact, within 8 months that we had proven ourselves unwilling to  take the hard decisions and too willing to sacrifice the well-being of future generations on the altar of expediency. 
   It was in October of 1998, in the waning hours of last fall's budget negotiations, that we passed a $532 billion omnibus appropriations bill. Included in that bill was $21.4 billion in so-called emergency spending. Since that $21.4 billion of emergency spending could be approved without the necessity of finding any way to pay for it, that funding came right out of the surplus. It took $3 billion out of the fiscal 1998 surplus. It took $13 billion out of the 1999 surplus. It will take $5 billion out of this year's surplus. 
   The action would have been even mildly palatable had all of the supposed emergency funds been allocated to true emergencies. But, in fact, many of the items that were funded out of the $21.4 billion were items which had in the past been considered normal, regular obligations of the Federal Government, not the necessary, sudden, urgent, unforeseen, temporary needs that are supposed to be the hallmarks of real emergencies. 
   In June, we made our third raid on the Social Security surplus, a supplemental appropriations bill that again cloaked many nonemergency spending items in emergency designation under the title of Kosovo. With all the negative public attention that had been focused on our previous raids, one would have thought that we might have at least been embarrassed back into fiscal responsibility. But, again, I am sorry that was not the case. So another $4 billion was taken out of the surplus through emergency spending for 1999 and $7 billion will be taken out in the year 2000. 
   What have we done thus far? We started with a total surplus for 1999 of $137 billion, of which $124 billion was Social Security. But after we had taken $13 billion for the emergency of 1998 and $4 billion for the emergency of 1999, we have reduced our surplus down to $120 billion. So we have spent every penny of the off-budget surplus, and we have spent $4 billion of the Social Security surplus to fund these emergencies. 
   Now, what is the chart for the year 2000? We started out with a total surplus of $173 billion, of which $147 billion was Social Security. We have the $5 billion from 1998, we have the $7 billion bloated Kosovo emergency expenditure, and just last night, we voted yet another emergency expenditure of $8 billion for agriculture. Today we have on the floor a tax bill that will cut the revenue for the year 2000 by $5 billion. So what started off as a $173 billion surplus has already shrunk to $148 billion. Every dollar of that surplus is Social Security save $1 billion, which, as I will point out in subsequent remarks, is highly in danger. 
   The action yesterday relative to agriculture represents the difficulty of the dilemma. Certainly American farmers are facing distressful circumstances. I happen to be an American farmer. I think I understand something of their plight. But the way to deal with this problem is not by temporary emergency fixes. The way to deal with this problem is to look at the underlying causes, which might be that we haven't been adequately dealing with fundamental issues such as crop insurance reform or that we have not been sufficiently aggressive in our trade policy in order to ensure there are open markets for American agricultural goods. Those are some of the ways in which we ought to be directing our attention, not through emergency spending to deplete our surplus. 
   The budget resolution says that emergency spending must meet five criteria. It must be necessary, sudden, urgent, unforeseen, and it must not be permanent. I suggest that many of these expenditures we have made over the last 2 years fail to meet those standards of emergency. 
   Our fiscal irresponsibility, however, is not limited just to emergency appropriations. We have defined the surplus as the difference between estimated revenue and estimated expenditures. Yet in arriving at those estimated expenditures, we have used unrealistic standards. We have created expenditure expectations that no one in this Congress believes are, in fact, going to be 
   met; thus, the necessity to resort to these kinds of emergency measures. While we are doing that, we are also fundamentally deceiving the American people as to what our Federal Government's policies will be. 
   Let me use one example. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. There is no better time than in early August to talk about the state of our national parks, because this is a time of the year when hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens are taking advantage of one of America's great treasures--its national park system. But it is a treasure which we have been systematically looting through indifference. It is stated in this article that in an assessment made last year, the Park Service estimated it would cost $3.54 billion to repair maintenance problems at national parks, monuments, and wilderness areas, maintenance that has been put off for decades, in some cases, because of lack of money. 
   Mr. President, while we may deceive ourselves into the statement that we have this significant surplus, it is a surplus which is being derived by a systematic underfunding of important national priorities, priorities which we know eventually are going to be met, but which we are now deceiving ourselves into the false illusion that there is an unrealistic surplus, a surplus which we can now use to fund these massive tax cuts. 
   The time is now to provide some honest leadership for the American people, not hollow statements and false promises. I am afraid that that leadership and honesty are not to be found in the tax bill before us today. 
   What I think we need to do is to put first things first. As Ecclesiastes says: There is a time for all things. There is a season to plant and there is a season to harvest. 
   What is the season today, in this time of national celebration of the results of fiscal discipline? I suggest the season for today is to deal with the challenges of our children and our grandchildren, starting with two critical national programs. 
   We should provide for the solvency of Social Security for our children and our grandchildren, and we should strengthen Medicare and bring it into the 21st century by providing it with the tools necessary, not just to deal with illness but to do what Americans want--to provide for their health and well-being. We should be funding those medical services that will prevent disease and illness, that will maintain our American people in their highest state of health. Unfortunately, when we have spent the resources that would be necessary to fund this tax cut before having dealt with Social Security and Medicare, there will be no money left to deal with Social Security and Medicare. 
   The statement will be made that Social Security is off the table; we have already dealt with it; that by placing all of the Social Security surplus into a lockbox to protect it for Social Security, we have discharged that responsibility. Well, first, I say that we have a very leaky lockbox. Willie Sutton was once asked: Why do you rob banks? The answer was: That is where the money is. Well, the lockbox assumes the money has already gotten to the bank. But Jesse James figured out that if he could rob the train before the box got to the bank, he could get the money before it could be placed in the vault. That is essentially what this emergency spending loophole is allowing us to do. We are looting the lockbox before the money arrives. 
   Even if we put the full amount of the Social Security surplus into the Social Security program, we would only have extended its solvency for our children to the year 2034. 
   The Greenspan Commission of the early 1980s had recommended that we ought to fund Social Security on a three-generational program, which would mean through the year 2075. We have not completed our task if the only thing we have done is to secure the solvency of Social Security to the year 2034. 
   Mr. President, we have an opportunity to lead the Nation in the way in which I believe thoughtful Americans wish to go. They wish to be prudent at  this time. They wish to celebrate the successes of fiscal discipline and to continue those successes. They want to take care of today's season of business first. They do not want us to embark upon a reckless course which would dissipate our ability to deal with our future needs and place us in the precarious position of depending upon unrealistic estimates of future revenues and a totally unrealistic expectation of future national needs. 
   So the issue is not the details of this tax proposal, although I believe an examination of that detail would indicate this plan is woefully lacking in basic principles of fairness and equity to all Americans. But the fundamental deficiency of this tax bill is its lack of timeliness. We should not be considering any tax cut until we have taken care of priority business--protecting Social Security for three generations and strengthening Medicare. We should not be considering any tax measures until we are certain the projections of revenue and the estimates of future needs are based on realistic, not political, assessments. 
   After we have carried out those first tasks, then if there are funds left available--and I suggest there probably will be --then we could consider what would be an appropriate form of returning that measure back to the American people through a tax cut. But, for today, the answer must be no to the measure that is before us. I hope that soon we will be answering yes to the responsibility we have to do America's first business first. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, following on the comments of my colleague from Florida, the Committee did not see fit to appropriate the full amount of these requested funds due to several concerns outlined in the Committee's report. First, the report addressed the $40 million in unobligated balances at the Department of Interior that have already been appropriated by Congress for the Everglades restoration effort. Further, the Committee echoed concerns raised in a recent GAO report regarding a more expedient dispute resolution mechanism and an integrated strategic plan. I would ask the distinguished Chairman of the Subcommittee if this--in general--reflects the concerns of the Subcommittee as outlined in the report? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. If I may, let me follow on by saying the Department further assures us they are making good progress on the concerns raised by the GAO report and echoed by the Committee. In fact, on July 1 of this year, the administration released the Everglades Restudy--which is an extremely detailed 20-year plan for restoring the Everglades--to the Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I would continue by adding that the Task Force is the entity responsible of implementing the recommendations of the Committee with respect to the dispute resolution mechanism and the strategic plan. Further, cost of living adjustments are forcing staff layoffs and seriously eroding the Task Force's ability to do its job. I would ask the Chairman to consider increasing the Task Force's budget to the requested $1.3 million during the Conference with the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would like to respond to the statement that was made earlier relative to the role of the Florida sugar industry and the Florida Everglades. As one who grew up in the Florida Everglades and feels deeply about the importance of the State and national effort which is underway to restore them, I think it is important to set the record straight. 
   The sugar industry has appropriately been designated for a major part of the effort to restore the Everglades. Thus far, they have not only met but exceeded the requirements that have been imposed for the reduction of phosphorus from the waters before they enter the main part of the Everglades. Sugar has participated in the development of a restudy plan, which will soon be debated by this Senate, and sugar has been a strong supporter of the restoration of the Everglades through the Corps of Engineers restudy plan. 
   It is important for the success of the salvation of the Everglades that each of the stakeholders play their role. I can state at this time that sugar is playing its appropriate role and a strong sugar industry is going to be a key element in achieving the objective of saving the Florida Everglades. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will object if that unanimous consent request is placed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I object to the unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am struck with some of the inconsistencies within this amendment. I appreciate my colleague's elucidation as to their significance. 
   Under ``New Sanctions,'' it states:  
   .....the President may not impose a unilateral agricultural sanction or a unilateral medical sanction against a foreign country or a foreign entity for any fiscal year, unless--  
   And there are certain exceptions. In terms of ``new sanctions,'' we are speaking as to presidentially imposed. 
   Under ``Existing Sanctions'' it says:  
   .....with respect to any unilateral agricultural sanction or unilateral medical sanction that is in effect as of the date of enactment of this Act for any fiscal year.......  
   As my colleague knows, some of the sanctions that would be covered by this  existing sanctions language are congressionally imposed, not presidentially imposed. 
   The question I have is, Why make the distinction for new sanctions, that they must be presidentially imposed, assumedly reserving to Congress the right to impose a new sanction? Yet with old existing sanctions, the amendment wipes out both those that were presidentially as well as those which had been sanctioned by action of Congress. What is the rationale? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. To continue my question, I don't think that was quite responsive to the issue I am raising. 
   In the Senator's opening statement, the principal argument was that we should not allow the President to unilaterally be imposing these sanctions, and in terms of new sanctions as outlined on page 4, you clearly restrict the application by the President of the prohibition to those that are unilateral. 
   As it relates to existing sanctions, this language appears to sweep up both sanctions that were unilaterally imposed by the President, such as the one against Sudan last year, as well as those that were imposed by action of Congress, such as the legislation that bears the name of the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee which was adopted some time ago. That was an action which had the support of the Senate, the House of Representatives, and was signed into law by the President of the United States. 
   Who else does the Senator want to have sanctioned in order to be an effective statement of policy of the United States of America? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Continuing with the questions, would the Senator from Missouri be amenable to a modification of this amendment to make the existing sanctions provision on page 5 consistent with the new sanctions standards on page 4? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. If I could move to another provision, which is beginning at line 12, we have the ``Countries Supporting International Terrorism'' section, which reads:  
   This subsection shall not affect the current prohibitions on providing, to the government of any country supporting international terrorism, United States government assistance, including United States foreign assistance, United States export assistance, or any United States credits or credit guarantees.  
   What is missing from that set of prohibitions is prohibitions against direct, unaided commercial sales. As I gather from the Senator's earlier presentation of this amendment, it is his intention that a nonassisted commercial sale between a U.S. entity and one of these terrorist states would be acceptable, i.e., would not be subject to continued prohibitions? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The concern I have is that what essentially we have, or what the Senator proposes to do--I hope we do not follow this suggestion--is to say, if you are a sufficiently rich terrorist state, you can afford to buy the products without any of the credit or other assistance that is often available in those transactions. If you are rich enough to be able to make the purchase without depending upon that, then these prohibitions that are currently in place--by action of the Congress or action of the President or, in the case of several of these, by action of both the Congress and the President--will not apply. But if you are a poor terrorist country and cannot afford to buy the food unless you have one of these subsidies, then you are prohibited. Is it that a rich terrorist state gets a preference over a poor terrorist state? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Is it a fair characterization of subsection 4 that commercial  sales of food and medicine to a rich terrorist state are acceptable; i.e., would be exempt from the current licensing provisions but humanitarian sales, that is, sales that qualify for one of the various forms of U.S. Government assistance to a poor terrorist state, would continue to be subject to those licensing requirements? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. So I think the answer to the question is yes. That raises the question: I notice before the amendment was sent to the desk there was a handwritten insertion in the title of the amendment. The original title had said, ``to promote adequate availability of food and medicine abroad by requiring congressional approval......'' In the handwritten insertion, the prepositional phrase was added so it now reads ``promote adequate availability of food and medicine for humanitarian assistance abroad by requiring congressional approval......'' It seems actually the substance of the amendment does quite the opposite of the prepositional phrase. 
   The substance of the amendment says if you are rich enough to be able to buy at commercial standards, you can avoid the necessity of licensing and all of the constraints that have been imposed by action of Congress, action of the President, or both on terrorist states. But if you are a poor terrorist state and have been sanctioned by Congress or the President, or both, and 
   would require some assistance in order to be able to get food, then you are still subject to all of these licensing requirements. 
   So the actual substance of the amendment is inconsistent with the modification that was made in the title. I suspect I know why that was done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I appreciate the answers to the questions, and I think the summary of those answers is that we have established an inconsistent policy as between actions of the Congress relative to new sanctions and to existing sanctions. 
   Second, we have established a policy that, if you are a rich terrorist state and have the money to buy food at straight commercial standards, you can do so; if you are a poor terrorist state that would require the access to some of these various trade assistance programs, then you cannot buy American food. 
   I do not believe this is an amendment that, once fully understood, the Members of the Senate will wish to be associated with. 
   Mr. MACK addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Kim Alexander be granted floor privileges during the consideration of the Agriculture appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it is my intention to raise a point of order. Before I do so, I will provide some context. 
   We have entered into a unanimous consent agreement to govern the disposition of this legislation. That unanimous consent agreement states that during the consideration of the agricultural appropriations bill, when the Democratic leader or his designee offers an agricultural relief amendment, no rule XVI point of order lie against the amendment or amendments thereto relating to the same subject. 
   The question is, Does this amendment to the amendment offered by the Democratic leader on agricultural relief constitute an amendment relating to the same subject? Let me anticipate what might be considered by the Parliamentarian. 
   In the underlying amendment, there is reference made to two agricultural programs: The Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 and section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949. Both of those statutes are again referenced in the amendment that has been offered by the Senator from Missouri. 
   Where are they offered in the amendment offered by the Senator from Missouri? They are offered in the section of the amendment which is the definitions, so they are stated to be agricultural programs and then listed in the definition section. 
   I can find no other reference to those specific statutes other than in the definition section, raising the question as to whether they were inserted in the definition section in order to attempt to overcome what was the clear purpose of the unanimous consent agreement, which was to provide a narrow exception to the rule XVI prohibition against legislating on an appropriations bill. 
   Even beyond that, I point out on page 6, in one of the most significant provisions of this amendment, the provision that relates to countries supporting international terrorism, the only potential relevance of defining those pieces of legislation is to exclude them from the operation of this amendment. So they are put in the definition section so they can be removed from the operation of this amendment on page 6. Clearly, in my opinion, that is a specious attempt to gain the advantage of the unanimous consent agreement. 
   One final point. During the colloquy I had with the Senator from Missouri, I think he was quite candid in saying that the purpose of that support for the international terrorism section was to draw a distinction between commercial sales of agricultural and medical products, which were approved under this amendment, could be made without any of the existing conditions such as a license, and sales that were made on a humanitarian basis through one of these various U.S. trade or export of agricultural products provisions which continued to be prohibited. 
   We have the ironic circumstance that the humanitarian provision is prohibited but commercial sales are rendered acceptable by this amendment. 
   Yet in the headline, the footnote, the summary of this amendment, by a handwritten insertion, the prepositional phrase is inserted which says ``for humanitarian assistance.'' The purpose of inserting that specific reference is clearly just to establish the most tenuous connection to the underlying bill and to attempt to create the facade that this amendment has something to do with humanitarian assistance, where, by the very description of the Senator from Missouri, it is for commercial, not assisted humanitarian agricultural, sales. 
   Mr. President, with that description of what I think the amendment is, what the underlying amendment and what the purpose of the unanimous consent agreement was, which was a narrow exception for agricultural relief amendments and amendments to that amendment which related to the same subject, since this fails to meet that standard, I raise the point of order under rule XVI that this amendment constitutes, clearly, explicitly, legislation on an appropriations bill and therefore, under rule XVI, is out of order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask that Mr. Sean McCluskie, Mr. Adam Foslid, and Ms. Brooke Russ of my office be granted the privilege of the floor for the duration of the Agriculture appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to thank our distinguished guest Chaplain, Rabbi Solomon Schiff, a personal friend, who has been a great contributor to the religious and civic life of our community and Nation and who has brought us an inspirational message to commence a long day of Senate deliberation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, it is a tremendous honor to welcome a distinguished religious leader and member of the South Florida community to the United States Senate: Rabbi Solomon Schiff of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation's Community Chaplaincy Service. 
   This morning, my colleagues and I were privileged to have Rabbi Schiff participate in a long-standing tradition by leading the Senate in prayer. His eloquence reminds us that while our legislative efforts to make the United States a better place to live, work, and raise our families is important, it pales in contrast with our responsibilities to the Almighty. On behalf of every member of the United States Senate, I want to thank Rabbi Schiff for his words of inspiration. 
   It is no accident that Solomon Schiff was asked to lead us in our daily devotions. His long record of service to individuals in Florida, America, and around the world has distinguished him as not only a prominent spiritual leader but also a leader in his community. 
   Since his graduation from Brooklyn College, the University of Miami, and the Hebrew Theological Seminary in Illinois, Rabbi Schiff has served as Chairman of the Board of License of the Central Agency for Jewish Education, President of both the South Florida and Florida Chaplains Association, Chairman of the Metropolitan Dade Community Relations Board, Chairman of the Chaplaincy Service Advisory Council for the Florida Department of Corrections, and Secretary, Vice President, and President of the Rabbinical Association of Greater Miami. 
   Rabbi Schiff's current leadership positions confirm his dedication to service. In addition to his duties as Director of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation's Community Chaplaincy Service, he serves as Chairman of the National Council of Executives of Boards of Rabbis, Chairman of the Community Hospice Council in South Florida, and as a member of the Executive Committee of the National Rabbinic Cabinet of United Jewish Appeal. 
   Mr. President, Rabbi Solomon Schiff is a shining example of the moral and community leadership that our communities need as we enter a new century. I will conclude today by asking that a November 27, 1998, article from the Sun-Sentinel of South Florida be included with my remarks. It discusses Awakening 2000, an interfaith initiative that encourages Floridians to engage the power of prayer and spiritual healing in their daily lives and interactions with others. 
   Rabbi Schiff, a leader in this faith-based effort, was quoted as saying that ``a total commitment by responsible people to try and bring society to a level of decency is the only way ..... that our society will survive with a positive future.'' Mr. President, it gives me great reassurance that Solomon Schiff's wise counsel will help guide us into that future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Alison Egan and Patricia Daugherty of the Finance Committee be granted the privilege of the floor during pendency of S. 1429, a bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant to section 104 of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for the Fiscal Year 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the issue before us with this amendment is what is the proper order of consideration of the issues challenging our Nation? In the Bible it talks about the fact that there is a season for all things. There is a season to plant; there is a season to harvest. The question is, What is the season of America here in late July of 1999? 
   The position Senator ROBB and I and our cosponsors take is that the season is not for a massive tax cut until we have planted and harvested the seeds of a strengthened Social Security program and a strengthened Medicare program. 
   The bill that was reported by the Senate Finance Committee and its companion, which has already passed the House of Representatives, would cut taxes by approximately $800 billion over the next 10 years. 
   Some have claimed--and claimed on this floor earlier today --that a tax cut of $800 billion is the ideal way to usher in a new era of budget surpluses and to maintain the economic growth and prosperity through which we are currently living. I could not disagree more. 
   With all due respect to my colleagues, the tax cut jeopardizes the long-term solvency of two of the critical programs for millions of Americans--Social Security and Medicare--programs for which there is a solemn contract, a contract between the American Government and its people, a contract which is now in question. 
   There are a series of rather straightforward questions that lie at the heart of this debate: Do we live for today? Do we consume for today's satisfaction? Or do we plan, do we save, do we prepare for tomorrow? Do we support fiscal gluttony or fiscal discipline? The question our children might ask is, do we eat our dessert before or after spinach? 
   The amendment Senator ROBB offers delays the effective date of any tax cut until after legislation strengthening Social Security and Medicare has been enacted. This proposal, I suggest, is not dissimilar to the approach which has been proposed by the leadership in the House of Representatives. They have agreed that debt reduction, at least as measured by interest expense, should take priority over tax cuts. Under the House proposal, tax cuts are not made if interest payments do not decline. 
   Similarly, our amendment places the preservation of Social Security and Medicare as higher priorities than tax cuts. The amendment states that before any tax cut proposal can be implemented, Congress must pass, and the President must sign, legislation extending the solvency of Social Security three generations, or to the year 2075. The Congress must also pass, and the President must also sign, legislation that modernizes the Medicare program and extends the solvency of the hospitalization program within Medicare through the year 2027. 
   Unfortunately, the tax cut proposal on the Senate floor does not just delay our efforts to preserve these important programs for future generations; it brings these efforts to a screeching halt. The $800 billion tax cut in the plan before us represents over 80 percent of the projected non-Social Security surplus over the next 10 years. 
   I point to this chart, which indicates that through the combination of the tax breaks of $792 billion, and then the 
   interest which we will have to pay--rather than as our budget has been calculated, those $792 billion would have been used to reduce the Federal debt--since that use will now be diverted to tax cuts, that means we will be required to pay out an additional $100 billion in interest during the next 10 years. With the combination of the lost interest savings associated with these tax cuts and the lost revenue from the tax cuts themselves, the surplus disappears completely, leaving no resources to strengthen Social Security or modernize Medicare for our Nation's older citizens. 
   Although we cannot accurately predict how the economy will perform over the next 10 years, we do know that demographic changes taking place in America will place a tremendous strain on Social Security and Medicare. 
   Our elderly population is growing quickly. Those seniors are living longer than ever before. As a result, Social Security is projected to run its first ever deficit in the year 2014. 
   It has been stated that all we have to do to save Social Security is to lock up the $1.9 trillion that will be derived by the Social Security surpluses in a lockbox, that we can wipe our hands of any further responsibility for the solvency of Social Security. As you well know, the fact is that that will only extend the Social Security solvency to approximately the year 2034. Yet our commitment is to preserve Social Security for three generations, not only to those who are the current beneficiaries, not only to those who will soon become beneficiaries but to their children and their grandchildren. A three-generational solvency for Social Security cannot be achieved through the singular step of investing all of the Social Security surplus into strengthening the Social Security trust fund. 
   Even worse than the challenge faced by Social Security is the challenge faced by Medicare. The twin pillars of security for older Americans--financial security through Social Security, health security through Medicare. 
   The trustees of the Medicare fund have reported that Part A, the hospital payments, already exceed the program's revenue and will do so in each of the next 15 years. 
   In addition, not only does the program have a serious financial problem, Medicare is an increasingly out-of-date program and one that fails to take advantage of the benefits of modern medical science. We have a program which is from the model year 1965 when we desperately need one worthy of the 21st century. 
   For example, we should increase the number of important preventive benefits available to Medicare. We should provide for programs such as hypertension, programs like glaucoma, for smoking cessation, for the management of hormones--all of which would extend the quality and the length of life, all of which are within the current extents of modern medicine. Yet the Medicare program does not provide those or many other of the important, proven preventative measures.  
   We need to support that preventive effort by extending Medicare to include a prescription drug benefit, which is not only an important part of treating chronic diseases but a critical part of maintaining the health of our older citizens. 
   Private health care plans long ago recognized that prescription drugs are a vital tool in efforts to save lives, improve health quality, and prevent and treat sickness and disease. 
   Medicare will not be relevant in the 21st century if it does not cover the treatments physicians use and patients require. 
   Yet the tax plan before us says nothing about preserving Social Security to the year 2075 or protecting and strengthening Medicare to the year 2027. Instead, it blindly devotes virtually all of the non-Social Security surplus to tax cuts without considering the larger budget issues, issues which hang over us like the sword of Damocles. 
   Despite a record economy, the best fiscal situation since the late 1960s, this tax bill passes on the hard choices, passes on the choices that are going to be important to our children and our grandchildren. 
   The deficit may be gone, but we are still operating under the same pass-the-buck-to-the-next-generation mentality that created it. Talk of an $800 billion tax cut versus a $500 billion tax cut versus a $250 billion tax cut, all of those miss the fundamental point. The fundamental point is, Congress should not pass any tax cut until we have strengthened Social Security by making it solvent for three generations. We should not pass any tax cut until we modernize Medicare by increasing the number of preventive benefits, incorporating a prescription drug benefit, and securing the program's fiscal health. Those should be our priorities. 
   When this amendment was introduced during last week's Finance Committee markup, it was defeated on a strict party-line vote. It is my hope that bipartisanship, common sense, respect for future generations of Americans will prevent a similar outcome on the Senate floor this week. But if it does not, I am very confident and, frankly, very proud that President Clinton has stated he will veto any tax cut proposal that does not put Social Security and Medicare first. He is in the fiscally responsible position, one that values wise preparation over instant gratification. 
   Now is the time to extend the life of Medicare and Social Security. Later, if our fiscal situation permits, it might be time to enact tax cuts. But my first priority, shared by Senator ROBB, is to my nine grandchildren and the other children of their generation. I hope my colleagues will join me in making this the priority of Congress as well. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, in 1983 Alan Greenspan chaired a commission to study the state of Social Security. He began the deliberations of that commission with this admonition: Every member of the commission is entitled to their opinion. No member of the commission is entitled to their facts. We are going to work off a common base of facts and then from that common base arrive at an informed set of judgments. 
   What are some of the facts that drive this amendment? One, there is a tidal wave of Americans who will reach 65 and become beneficiaries under the Medicare program and the Social Security program beginning in the year 2010. That generation, the generation born immediately after World War II, will more than double the number of current beneficiaries in Social Security and Medicare. That is a fact. 
   Second, it is a fact that under the current financing in the year 2014, 4 years after that tidal wave begins to hit, Social Security will go negative. That is, it will begin to pay out more benefits than it will take in annually in revenues. 
   Third, it is a fact that even if we do as is suggested, put all of the Social Security surplus into strengthening the Social Security system primarily by paying down the national debt, even that step will only extend the solvency of Social Security to the year 2034. That happens to be a significant date for me because my youngest daughter will become 65 in the year 2034. I hope she might not necessarily be listening to my remarks, she would not be happy for me to remind her of that. 
   Fourth, it is a fact that Medicare is a program of the 1960s based on 1960s knowledge of medical science, 1960s concepts of how to provide insurance for health care. With a few exceptions, it is still a 1965 program. It is a program in which the trust funded portions--that is, those that relate to hospital services--is already in a negative position. It is a program which will crack under the weight of the beneficiaries who will begin drawing its services in the year 2010. 
   Finally, it is a fact that the longer we delay dealing with Social Security and Medicare, the more difficult the problem becomes. We may think we have eased our burden by delaying these hard decisions. We may have eased our burden because we may not be here. But the sooner we act for the benefit of all Americans, particularly those Americans who properly are anticipating the contract they have with their Government for the financial security of Social Security and the health security represented by Medicare, their problems, their challenges, grow daily more severe as we delay dealing with these fundamental issues. 
   I want to join my colleague, Senator ROBB, in saying much of what the Senator from Tennessee said was compelling. However, he asked a question: Why is there a relationship between Social Security solvency, Medicare and its strengthening and solvency, and the tax cut? These are unrelated, disparate policy issues. 
   I beg to say I could not disagree more. There are two ways in which these issues are inextricably intertwined. One is fiscal. This chart indicates with the tax cut of $792 billion and the foregone interest savings of $141, the total cost to the treasury over the next 10 years of the plan before the Senate is $933 billion. If someone wishes to challenge those numbers, I stand silent and yield for them to do so. 
   I assume, thus, that we agree those are the right numbers. 
   With a total surplus from non-Social Security purposes--and we have already agreed we will put all the Social Security surplus into saving Social Security--that is $964 billion over 10 years, meaning the total amount that is left will be $32 billion over 10 years, or a little over $3 billion a year in order to do everything else that we may find needs to be done. 
   The fact is, once we have committed ourselves to this plan, there are no fiscal resources to either further strengthen Social Security to move beyond the year 2034, or to strengthen Medicare. So there is a fiscal relationship. 
   But beyond the fiscal Siamese twins of these issues, Social Security and Medicare, and this tax cut, is a political reality. There is nothing easier in politics, there is nothing that is less likely to get you a chapter in ``Profiles In Courage,'' than cutting taxes. Everybody likes to cut taxes. That is the classic case of eating your political desert. The question is, Do you eat your desert before you have had to first eat your vegetables? That is what we are being asked to do by passing this tax cut before we have dealt with the vegetables of Social Security and Medicare. 
   One of the most responsible groups is a group which is now led by two of our colleagues, former Republican Senator from New Hampshire, Warren Rudman, and Democratic Senator from Georgia, Sam Nunn, the Concord Coalition. The Concord Coalition was one of the driving forces that has given us the opportunity to have this debate tonight about surpluses because they helped focus national attention on the rot we were suffering year after year because of the deficits and the mounting national debt. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. This is the statement of the Concord Coalition. In conclusion it provides:  
   The bottom line is that, at the moment, political leaders have no idea how to meet the long-term spending promises that have been made for Social Security and Medicare, and no idea how to meet the tough discretionary spending caps on which the baseline surplus is premised. Major tax cuts should await the resolution of these issues. If the politically hard choices are not made before the easy ones, there is a very real danger that we'll end up spending a surplus we don't really have.  
   Let me repeat:  
   If the politically hard choices are not made before the easy ones, there is a very real danger that we'll end up spending a surplus we don't really have.   
   So those are why the issues of sequencing--what do we do first, where do we put our primary priorities--are central for the fiscal future of this country and the debate we have this week. I will briefly say why I think the proper order is Social Security and Medicare first. 
   First, the Social Security taxpayers and the Medicare taxpayers, through their payroll taxes, have created the totality of the surplus we have today. There is no other surplus than the Social Security surplus today, and there will only be a meager surplus beyond Social Security for the foreseeable future. So should not the people who created the surplus have some moral standing to be at the front of the line, not the back of the line, when we decide how to spend the surplus? 
   Second, a substantial amount of the non-Social Security surplus is going to be the result of the Social Security surplus being invested in paying down the debt held by the public and 
   therefore relieving the National Government of enormous interest payments--that $2 trillion of Social Security surplus when it is fully committed to reducing the debt held by the public. Let us say the average interest on the debt of the Federal Government today is 6 percent. Mr. President, as a certified public accountant, what kind of interest savings do you get at 6 percent on $2 trillion? A very substantial amount of money. And that is a significant part of the non-Social Security surplus. Don't the people who are creating those interest savings deserve to be at the front of the line, not at the back of the line? 
   Third, we do have a solemn contract between the American Government and its people on these programs. If we think we should not have that contract, then I think someone should stand up and be candid and honest and say: Let's repeal the 1935 Social Security Act, let's repeal the 1965 Medicare Act, so there will not be any false expectations. We are going to abrogate these contracts. 
   I do not believe there is any Member of this Senate or the House of Representatives who would do so. Therefore, I believe we, as the trustees for the American people in these important programs, have an obligation to see that they can fulfill their expectations. 
   Finally, we are not suggesting, with the amendment that Senator ROBB and I have offered, what the resolution of this issue should be. There are probably a dozen or more good ideas in this Chamber as to how we should strengthen Social Security, how we should strengthen Medicare. What we are saying is there should be a performance standard. The performance standard, I say to the Senator from Tennessee, my good friend, is not one we stole from somebody else. We have been saying for many years that Social Security should be solvent for three generations. 
   When you apply that three-generational test to 1999, it happens to come out to the year 2075. If somebody has a different standard they believe Social Security solvency should be judged by, let them come forward and make the case. But I believe we should guarantee this program for current beneficiaries, their children--like my child who, in the year 2034, will start drawing her Social Security benefits and become eligible for Medicare. I am pleased to say that same daughter is now about to make us grandparents, Adele and myself. This will be our 10th grandchild. In November she will have a baby. So we are concerned about the new baby who will soon come into our family. I believe that is a concern all of us share who are or hope soon to be grandparents. So I believe in the three-generational standard, which has been the standard against which Medicare solvency has been historically judged, is a sound one and represents the intergenerational contract. 
   We are not suggesting how that contract should be fulfilled because there are many ways. But we are saying that is the standard against which all proposals should be judged. Similarly, with Medicare--that is a more difficult proposition because Medicare, unlike Social Security, is not totally funded out of a trust fund but rather a mixture of a trust fund for hospitalization and general revenue, plus premiums by the beneficiaries for the physicians' portion of Medicare. We are saying that, for the hospitalization plan, we should set as a standard the year 2027 for solvency of that trust fund. 
   Again, if someone wishes to argue for a different standard, 
   that is certainly their prerogative. But we need to have a measurement. We need to have something like an external audit, some standard to which we can submit our proposals and have them evaluated as to whether they meet the test of the American people. 
   So what we are saying is let's maintain our options. Let us not place ourselves in a position where we are unable to achieve those standards of solvency for Social Security and Medicare. Once we have done that, we can declare hallelujah, and then we can proceed, if there are funds left after we have accomplished those purposes, to tax cuts or whatever else the Congress and the American people believe to be their priorities. But these are the first two priorities. There is both a moral and a legal obligation, and maybe most important, an obligation to our future, as seen in the faces of our children and grandchildren. It is to them that this amendment is directed. 
   I urge my colleagues to adopt the simple principle: Let's do first things first, and Social Security and Medicare solvency are the first two responsibilities of this Congress. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this amendment will restore $30 million in funding for the National Endowment for Democracy. 
   I understand that the State Department accounts are severely underfunded and there is no easy way to fund these programs, and I will work to ensure that all the State Department accounts are funded by the time this bill emerges from conference. 
   In spite of the unfortunate position we now find ourselves, it is nevertheless critical that we restore the funding for the National Endowment for Democracy. 
   Today we will debate the merits of the NED and the importance of its mission. This will be the seventh time in the last seven years that the Senate debates NED funding. 
   The last time this debate took place, in 1997, an effort to eliminate NED funding was reversed by a vote of 72-27. 
   I am hopeful that this current debate will reach a similar conclusion. 
   But this debate is really about much more than the National Endowment for Democracy. 
   What we are debating here today goes to the very fundamental nature of our democracy. 
   Are we to continue to be the beacon of freedom to which oppressed peoples around the world look to for guidance and support in their struggles to attain the same liberties and freedoms that we hold so dear? 
   Or are we going to shrink from that responsibility and abandon those who seek to change the fundamental character of their nations so that their people may enjoy the benefits of freedom? 
   Around the world, the NED is a vibrant and effective advocate for the ideals for which our fore fathers risked their lives and sacred honors. 
   It is our ambassador to the oppressed people of the world who are fighting and risking their lives for freedom. 
   But you don't need to take my word for this. Let me tell you about some others who believe that the NED is as important as I do. 
   In 1995, seven former Secretaries of State sent a letter to the congressional leadership that stated:  
   During this period of international change and uncertainty, the work of the NED continues to be an important bi-partisan but non-governmental contributor to democratic reform and freedom.  
   Four Former National Security Advisors, Allen, Brzezinski, Carlucci, and Scowcroft, wrote that ``the endowment remains a critical and cost-effective investment in a more secure America, and we support its work.'' 
   Just this week, the New York Times editorialized on the importance of the NED, and the Wall Street Journal printed a piece by former President Carter and Paul Wolfowitz, an official in the Reagan and Bush administrations, that did the same. 
   So many as champions of democracy have recognized the important contribution of NED to their own work. 
   These include Harry Wu, the Chinese human rights activist, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, Elena Bonner, the chairman of the Andrei Sakharov Foundation, and Vaclav Havel. 
   To some here in Congress, the NED is a target to undermine and defund. 
   But to those struggling to overcome oppression in some 80 or 90 countries around the world, NED is a helping hand in their fight for democracy. 
   I ask my colleagues to stand with freedom and democracy, to stand with those who have led democratic transitions, and to stand with those who continue to pursue the dream of democracy around the world. 
   I ask my colleagues to stand with the NED. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be temporarily laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself, Senator DURBIN, and others, as a means of raising our strong objection to a provision that appeared in the report accompanying the Senate Commerce-State-Justice appropriations bill. That provision was on two pages. 
   On page 15 of the report, the last sentence in the first paragraph reads:  
   No funds are provided for tobacco litigation or the Joint Center for Strategic Environmental Enforcement.  
   Then on page 25, in the lower half of the page, this sentence appears:  
   No funds are provided for expert witnesses called to provide testimony in tobacco litigation.  
   My objection is that those two sentences have with them a clear inference that it is the policy of the Senate that the Department of Justice, in a rare instance, should be denied the investigative and prosecutorial discretion to determine whether it is in the interest of the United States and its people for the Federal Government to bring litigation against the tobacco industry and pursue that litigation in an effective manner. 
   Even more troubling is the sweeping nature of this language, which I believe could be reasonably interpreted to amount to a grant of immunity to the tobacco industry from Federal prosecution. 
   Further, if the Senate fails to strike this offending report language which grants immunity to the tobacco industry, we will be reversing the intent of a sense-of-the-Senate amendment we adopted less than 4 months ago by a unanimous vote, on March 25. The Senate clearly articulated not only that it was supportive of the Federal litigation but determined that the use of settlement dollars should be primarily to add to the strength of the Medicare trust fund on the basis that it is the Medicare trust fund that has been primarily affected by these excessive health care costs. I will discuss that in a moment. 
   While preparing a litigation strategy and while allowing the Department of Justice to exercise its traditional range of discretion, it is by no means a guarantee of success. Denying funds to the Department of Justice, tying their hands at the outset, precluding them from the ability to hire expert witnesses will only assure the failure of this important legal initiative. 
   We all know the tobacco industry is responsible for tens of billions of dollars of tobacco-related illnesses that the Federal Government spends to care for and treat individuals with lung cancer, emphysema, heart disease, and every other illness associated with tobacco use. 
   The most recent estimate for the costs incurred by the Federal Government for the treatment of tobacco-related illnesses totals $22.2 billion each year. This includes Medicare, $14.1 billion; Veterans' Administration, $4 billion; Federal Employees Health Benefit Program, $2.2 billion; Department of Defense, $1.6 billion; Indian Health Services, $300 million. 
   Put simply, a vote that retains this restrictive report language would, in essence, grant the tobacco industry immunity against Federal litigation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The Post editorial describes the stark implications of rejecting the amendment. The Post states:  
   It would be an amnesty for decades of misconduct and a retroactive taxpayer subsidy for that misconduct as well.  
   My second main objection to this language is that on May 20 of this year, the Congress, through a conference committee on the emergency supplemental bill, enacted a provision that denied the Federal Government access to some $250 billion which the States have secured through their tobacco settlement. 
   The original amendment, which was introduced by Senator HUTCHISON of Texas and myself, as well as Senator BAYH, Senator VOINOVICH, and other Members of the Senate, passed this Senate by a vote of 71-29. This body could not have spoken with more clarity: Uncle Sam, keep your hands off the States' money. 
   But in taking that vote, while we said to the Federal Government, ``Hands off,'' I and many of my colleagues, including Senator HOLLINGS and others, had argued that if the Federal Government wants its own money, then it should sue the tobacco industry for the recovery of funds spent for the treatment of tobacco-related illnesses in Federal programs, such as Medicare. If that sentiment was true just a few weeks ago, it is certainly true today. 
   My third objection is that this report language would be an abdication of our Federal responsibility to deny the Justice Department its most fundamental responsibility. What is that responsibility? It is the responsibility to locate and to investigate areas where individuals, organizations, entire industries, may in fact be liable and responsible for harming the people of the United States of America. 
   Evidence uncovered by the States in their successful legal efforts against the tobacco industry clearly implicates the tobacco industry in their complicity to cover up evidence of addiction and illness related to the product they produce and market. To allow the tobacco industry to escape responsibility for these practices and to not investigate it fully to determine whether the Federal Government can recoup funds--funds that come from the taxpayers of America, funds that have been paid out to treat tobacco-related illnesses--would be totally irresponsible and a surrender of our fiduciary responsibility to the taxpayers. 
   Finally, there are some parties to this litigation who have no alternative but to have the Federal Government litigate on their behalf. 
   In this instance, I am speaking about Native Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be given 4 additional minutes to conclude my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent for 4 minutes to complete my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the letter from the National Congress of American Indians signed by its president, Mr. W. Ron Allen, states:  
   There are many Indian Nations, however, who do not possess the resources to bring individual suits and will, therefore, rely upon the DOJ to bring suit on their behalf.  
   I do not believe we should tolerate a situation in which a large number of our Native Americans are precluded from having their legal rights represented. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote to strike the offending report language. I urge my colleagues to allow the Justice Department to do its job, and to use its best professional judgment on how to proceed with its legal strategy against the tobacco industry. 
   Rather than giving the Marlboro Man and rather than giving Joe Camel another victim, let us vote to hold the tobacco companies accountable by the simple action of allowing the Department of Justice to do its responsible job as the Nation's investigator and litigator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask that the amendment I had offered relative to prohibition on tobacco litigation be withdrawn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. My amendment would require the Attorney General to conduct a study on crimes against older individuals no later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this legislation. 
   The population aged 65 years or older numbered 34.1 million in 1997 and will continue to grow as the baby boomer generation ages. These individuals are particularly vulnerable to crime. 
   Because they have made the determination that our large elderly population is susceptible to monetary scams and physical acts of intimidation, criminals defraud the elderly in areas ranging from telemarketing to health care fraud to securities and insurance. 
   Federal prosecutors and law enforcement officials throughout Florida are spending more and more of their time in efforts against the cheats, fly-by-night operators, and other criminals who are targeting the elderly for financial profit. 
   The losses suffered as a result of these crimes not only affect the elderly and their families but also squander resources for programs that provide services to millions of needy elderly Americans. 
   Mr. President, we can and must do better. 
   My amendment will require the Justice Department study to examine two vital issues: (1) whether an individual over 65 is more likely than the average individual to be the target of a crime; and (2) the extent of crimes committed against individuals over 65. 
   This amendment gives the Senate the opportunity to express its determination to protect this important segment of American society from criminals. 
   In his national bestseller, ``The Greatest Generation,'' NBC news anchor Tom Brokaw discusses the heroics of the World War II generation and how they saved the world from tyranny. It would be a shame if the generation that protected us in its youth was allowed to become victims of scam artists and violent criminals in its later years. 
   Mr. President, this study will be a first step toward freeing older Americans from the threat of crime. I urge all of my colleagues to support this important measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am prepared to offer an amendment with  my distinguished colleague Senator DEWINE to the Commerce, State, Justice appropriations bill that will help law enforcement officers in their efforts to protect our citizens. We believe that after the Congress passed Public Law 103-411, it had unintended consequences that have imposed unnecessary costs on state and local governments. Under this law, aircraft belonging to law enforcement agencies are considered ``commercial'' if costs incurred from flying missions to support neighboring jurisdictions are reimbursed. Multiple governmental agencies have recognized this problem, with the support of the Federal Aviation Administration, they have jointly drafted corrective language for this problem. Before proceeding, however, I would like to inquire as to the plans for consideration of this issue by the Commerce Committee this year. I wonder if my distinguished colleagues from the state of Arizona and South Carolina--the Chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, which has oversight on these matters--could engage Senator DEWINE and me in a discussion regarding this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senators from Arizona and South Carolina agree to review this matter on the FAA reauthorization bill and by the end of year? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I also want to thank Senators MCCAIN and HOLLINGS for their support on this issue. I should also thank the law enforcement organizations that have strongly supported this amendment. Specifically, the National Sheriff's Association, Airborne Law Enforcement Association, International Association of Chiefs Of Police, Florida Sheriff's Association, and the California State Sheriff's Associations. Mr. President, in light of what the distinguished Chairman and ranking member have said, I withdraw my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I would like to address the Chairman of the Subcommittee. Does the Chairman also agree to strike the language on page 15 and on page 25 of Senate Report 106-76 relating to funding for tobacco litigation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, thirty years ago today human beings first set foot the surface of the Moon. The Apollo 11 landing was an unprecedented accomplishment, one that marked the culmination of a national commitment to space exploration initiated by President Kennedy. 
   As many of my colleagues will remember, our country's space program was a child of the Cold War. In many ways, our rivalry with the Soviet Union in space was the primary impetus for the Apollo Program. The Soviets launched the first artificial satellite. They put the first man in space. They achieved the first space walk. Thirty years ago, we were intent on responding to those milestones by putting the first man on the Moon. As then Senate Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson said, ``I, for one, don't intend to go to sleep by the light of a Communist moon.'' 
   Today there is no Cold War, no unifying theme around which to rally our space program. Yet our exploration of space remains as important today as it was three decades ago. History tells us that those nations which developed the frontier prospered. Space is the latest frontier. 
   Mr. President, if I am not mistaken, the Chinese character for ``crisis'' is the same as that for ``opportunity.'' As our nation recalls the triumph of Apollo, we face both crisis and opportunity in our space program. 
   On May 25th, the Cox Commission reported multiple instances of sensitive American nuclear and missile technology falling into the hands of the People's Republic of China. It identified the lack of a sufficient United States commercial space launch capacity--a problem that has sent launch business to nations like China--as one of the reasons for this transfer of information. 
   The numbers tell an alarming story. Though nearly 70% of the world's commercial satellites are assembled in the United States, less than 45 percent are launched from our shores. Because more than 60 U.S. satellites have been approved for export to launch from Russia, the Ukraine, and China since 1995, U.S. rocket manufacturers and their vast supplier network have lost approximately $2.4 billion in direct revenues--a figure that doesn't include American satellite launches by the powerful European Arainespace Consortium. 
   Why are we losing out to other nations? One reason is cost. As scientist and author Gregg Easterbrook pointed out in the June 2, 1998 edition of the New York Times, companies that launch satellites aboard American space vehicles can expect to pay between $10,000 and $12,000 per pound. Nations like China--where government partially subsidizes the cost of satellite launches--can offer the same services for half the cost. 
   A second reason for our nation's declining share of commercial space launches is the relatively small number of available launch vehicles in the United States. From 1977 to 1986, the space shuttle was the only spacecraft authorized to carry satellites into orbit. That nearly ten-year hiatus in American rocket development gave a huge advantage to nations that used that time to build and improve the Russian Proton, European Ariane, and Chinese Long March rockets. 
   Last fall, I joined Senator CONNIE MACK (R-FL), U.S. Representative DAVE WELDON (R-FL), members of the House Science and Senate Commerce Committees, and a broad, bipartisan coalition in tackling these problems through the enactment of the Commercial Space Act. That legislation took steps to create a stable business environment for the U.S. commercial space industry, while simultaneously making the government's use of space technology more efficient and saving taxpayers millions of dollars. Even better, it did not add new federal regulations or raise taxes by so much as a penny. President Clinton signed it into law on October 28, 1998. 
   The Commercial Space Act will help to address the cost and capacity problems that have plagued our nation's  commercial space industry. For example, it breaks the federal government's monopoly on space travel and encourages launch options that might lower costs. Until the passage of this legislation, the space shuttle was the only American craft authorized to both leave and re-enter our planet's atmosphere. Commercial companies that have an interest in providing repeat services to their customers might benefit from the same principle of reusability that powers Columbia, Discovery, Atlantis, and Endeavor. 
   In addition, our legislation helps to mitigate the United States' dearth of launch vehicles by allowing the conversion of excess ballistic missiles into space transportation carriers. International arms control agreements have rendered these missiles useless for national defense, and the hundreds in storage eat up close to $10 million a year. Replacing their nuclear warheads with scientific and educational payloads will give the United States a practical, low-cost method for putting satellites into orbit. 
   But more and less expensive rockets will do little to erase other nations' competitive advantage if the United States does not have the infrastructure needed to launch them. That's why a similar bipartisan coalition recently introduced the Spaceport Investment Act. This legislation would make the financing of spaceport construction and renovation 100% tax-free--an innovation that could spur private investment in the important task of building and modernizing our nation's space launch facilities. 
   While airports, high speed rail, seaports, mass transit, and other transportation projects can raise money through tax-exempt bonds, spaceports do not currently enjoy such favorable tax treatment. This amounts to a glaring omission in federal policy. Airlines, cruise, and shipping lines could not exist without airports and seaports. In the same fashion, state-administered spaceports provide vital incentives for space-related economic growth by supplementing the launch infrastructure already provided by the federal government. 
   My home state offers tangible proof of spaceports' value to the commercial space industry. Since its creation in 1989, Spaceport Florida has facilitated more than $100 million in space-related construction and investment projects. This includes the modification and conversion of Launch Complex 46 from a military to a commercial space facility. 
   Virginia, Alaska, and California also host spaceports, and ten other states--Idaho, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas, and Utah--are considering their establishment. We must take advantage of this opportunity to make the public and private sectors partners in the effort to build badly needed launch sites around the nation. 
   The Commercial Space Act and Spaceport Investment Act will boost the effort to recapture space business in the United States. But these legislative initiatives must be part of a larger solution. In the coming months, I will be exploring the idea of a National Space Summit that brings together lawmakers, federal and state space administrators, business leaders, and academic representatives with the goal of launching a united effort to revitalize our commercial space industry and reverse our rapidly declining share of space launches. 
   Mr. President, while we recognize the historical significance of today's date, we must not let the accomplishments of the past dilute our focus on the future. My proposal is an innovative and efficient method for encouraging private and public cooperation in the important goal of revitalizing our national reach for the stars. 
   I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join us in this important effort to repave our pathways to outer space. This would be a fitting tribute to the brave pioneers who landed on the Moon thirty years ago today. Those early explorers sacrificed much for our nation's commitment to space exploration. Just yesterday, one of these pioneers, Apollo 12 Commander Pete Conrad, was buried in Arlington National Cemetary. Let us produce a lasting memorial to these astronaut heroes by rededicating ourselves to their cause. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator from Louisiana yield for purposes of a unanimous consent request? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent immediately after completion of the time controlled by the Senator from Louisiana, that I be given 10 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I come to the floor to voice my strong objection to hidden provisions which were inserted in the so-called last amendment during the consideration of the HMO Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   Last night, at approximately 8 o'clock, an amendment was offered which had over 250 pages. It had been represented throughout the debate that this amendment would be of a corrective, technical nature. There were several statements made on the floor that alterations, which had been agreed to verbally, would be incorporated in that final amendment. What we find is that quite a different thing has occurred. 
   First, I have found that several of the areas in which I had clear representations that refinements would be made were not made. In the area, for instance, of the emergency room, one of the key issues we spent considerable time debating had to do with poststabilization coverage. It was my understanding we had arrived at an agreement as to how to correct the language which all parties had appeared to agree would be an undue restriction on the rights of patients to receive proper care in an emergency room. I am sad to have to report that those changes were not incorporated in the final version of the legislation. 
   I am even more offended by the fact that while the changes we thought would be there were, at least in this instance, not obtained, but more so there were extraneous issues inserted, issues that had never been considered on the floor, never considered by a committee, never debated and unknown until they were unearthed, in the case of the issue I was to raise on page 252 and 253 of the so-called manager's amendment. 
   What is the provision I am so concerned about? It is section 901, ``Medicare Competitive Pricing Demonstration Project.'' If you want to get the full flavor of this, let me just quote:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. It states: ``HMOs Will Drop 327,000 Medicare Beneficiaries Next Year.'' 
   We have just spent 4 days of debate on trying to avoid having people dropped from their HMOs, and we now have an announcement that just in the Medicare program alone--the Medicare program has 39 million participants, and approximately 4 million of those are in HMOs--out of that relatively small number of HMO beneficiaries, 327,000 are being dropped. 
   What does it say? It says that of those who are being dropped, 79,000 will be unable to enroll in another HMO because there are no other HMOs in their area. 
   When the industry was asked, why is this happening, their answer was: The managed care industry says HMOs are pulling out of Medicare because the Government isn't paying them enough. 
   You would think the industry would therefore want to have an alternative system that would provide adequate reimbursement, but not excessive reimbursement, and that the place to achieve that is the marketplace. 
   We heard a lot of talk this week about how we ought to have deference to the marketplace. I think what the HMOs want is to have free enterprise when it relates to service to the patients, and they want to have socialism when it relates to how much revenue they get paid. 
   So in 1997, in the face of all of these factors, the Congress, by a very strong vote--I think it was 76 votes in the Senate--passed the Balanced Budget Act which contained a provision that would actually start HMOs toward a competitive bidding process--the same process, incidentally, used by many other large HMO users, State and local governments, and in the private sector. 
   It was started very modestly, with a demonstration plan so that we could learn about what was involved in competitive bidding for HMOs. I, frankly, thought that was excessive caution, that we could have taken advantage of the experience that was already available by many other large users, but the thought was, let's go slow, let's do a demonstration project. 
   So since 1997, HCFA, the Federal agency with responsibility for managing Medicare, has been organizing this demonstration project. They selected Kansas City and Phoenix as the two sites for the demonstration project. They are about to start, and all of a sudden, on the 252nd page of what is supposed to be a corrective manager's amendment, we not only bar the demonstration projects that are about to commence but bar any other demonstration projects that may be suggested. Yet we started with a finding that we support competitive bidding. 
   Boy, I tell you, if this is the way they support the principle, you do not want them to be your parents and say they are going to give you good care. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent for an additional 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. We have not found anybody who was aware of it except some diligent soul who actually got to page 252 of the bill sometime late last night or this morning and discovered this. I might say, it is very difficult to even get copies of this amendment. 
   We have known for several years that the HMO industry did not want competitive bidding. They like the socialized formula system that exists today. They are attempting in any way they can, including this stealth attack late last night on page 252, to kill competitive bidding. 
   Unfortunately, just as with the issue of the HMO bill we have been debating, on the issue of patients versus the bottom line of the HMOs, the HMOs won in the Patients' Bill of Rights, and they have won again by killing competitive bidding. I say they have won. I think it is a Pyrrhic victory. 
   I think the Senator from North Dakota might recall an event that, as Yogi Berra said, it is deja vu all over again. I think it was just about 3 years ago, in a similar stealth maneuver, that we discovered there was embedded in a large bill a provision that would have given the tobacco industry a $50 billion tax break. Once that issue surfaced, it could not stand the light of day. 
   It slowly withered, died, and has not been resurrected. 
   I suggest the light of day will be shed on what the HMO industry has done by inserting this amendment on page 252 of a technical amendment, the fact they are using this as a means of avoiding the rigors of the marketplace, they are using this to avoid a rationalization of the compensation that HMOs receive from their patients so that we don't continue this pattern of 32,700 people being dropped. I can tell my colleagues, most of these people are people who come from rural areas. They come from small towns where they don't have high fee-for-service medicine. The HMOs want to skim off those areas that have high fee-for-service, where they can get a formula that results in a very rushed reimbursement level. They don't want to provide services, and they don't even want to have a competitive bidding process that can arrive at what the marketplace says they should be paying for those HMO  beneficiaries in smaller communities of America. 
   What we are seeing, again, is the bottom line winning out over the rights, the interests, and the health of patients. We are watching as Medicare patients are dumped on the street. Is that the HMO industry's idea of reform? It is my idea of a travesty, and it is one that we need to bring to the attention of America. And we, as the Senate, need to expunge this dark page, page 252, and its companion, page 253, from our records. I hope we will, at the first opportunity, do so. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Reserving the right to object, could I add a further statement to that unanimous consent request? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent to be able to offer an amendment at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield 2 minutes to the Senator from Rhode Island. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I yield 3 minutes to the Senator from Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I yield 1 minute to the Senator from Arkansas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to the Senator from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will consume such time as remains on our side. 
   There are a series of winners and losers as we conclude this debate. The first winner is the status quo. We all know the result of the effort of the last 4 days will be nothing. We will be in exactly the same position as we were before we started. 
   The losers are all those American families who have genuine concerns about the way in which they are being treated--the arbitrariness, the inadequacy of services under their current health maintenance organization plan. 
   The winner is cynicism. The American people will again question whether their political institutions are capable of responding to serious public issues. The loser will be the opportunity we had to bring together in the best spirit of the Senate a bipartisan plan, an American plan that would have dealt with an American problem.  
   The Miami Herald editorialized yesterday that what the American people want is Senate action, not a showoff dictated by political consultants. 
   Unfortunately, that is what they have received. 
   We will continue the effort to fashion a reasonable bipartisan plan that will deal with the legitimate concerns, first of all, of the American people--not a small percentage of the American people. We will do so in a way that will be sensitive to the cost of health care but also sensitive of the fact that people should get what they contract for from their health maintenance organizations and will provide an enforcement mechanism that is meaningful. 
   This is not the last chapter in this debate. I anticipate that shortly we are going to have the rubble of a collapsed bill under the weight of a Presidential veto. 
   I urge my colleagues to use the time between now and then to think seriously about whether that is the last record we want to write on this important national issue. I do not think it is what we want. We don't want an issue. We want a result that 
   will help American families. 
   The day to achieve that result is, unfortunately, not today, but it will come. Hopefully, it will come soon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I say to my colleague, the answer is, briefly, yes. I have a couple of questions. Maybe I could engage in a dialogue with Senator HUTCHINSON on these matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That depends on how long it takes to respond to the question. I will get started 
   As I said last night, there were two principal differences between the Republican and Democratic emergency medical care provisions. The first of those was the question of, if your child has a 103-degree fever and needs to go to an emergency room, and the closest emergency room is one that doesn't belong to your HMO, but you are taken there anyway, can you be required to pay higher charges for that closest emergency room as opposed to taking him to the more distant hospital that belongs to your HMO's network? 
   What had concerned me was the language in the original Republican bill. I am looking at subpart (C), section 721, Patient Access to Emergency Medical Care, in the original Republican bill. On page 5, lines 5 through 18, is the outline of the uniform cost-sharing provision. I had read the equivalent language in the amendment which appears on page 18, line 13 through line 2 on page 19. I have tried to read them, and I believe the language is verbatim the same. 
   This is what the committee report which was issued by the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and signed by all of the Republican Members said about that language:  
   Plans may impose cost sharing so long as it is uniformly applied to similarly-situated individuals and to all benefits consisting of emergency medical care. The committee believes that it would be acceptable to have a differential cost sharing for in-network emergency coverage and out-of-network emergency coverage, so long as such cost sharing is applied consistently across a category.  
   The language is verbatim in the amendment as it was in the original Republican bill. So can I assume that that committee language, which interprets what section (B)(1) on page 5 of the original Republican bill, lines 5 through 18 meant, is the same thing that the verbatim language in your amendment says? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Would the Senator look at page 29 of the committee report, the first full paragraph? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Then why is the amendment--what concerns me is that the amendment has, word-for-word, much of the same language as contained in the underlying Republican bill to which this paragraph relates. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That language is also verbatim in the underlying Republican bill. There is a paragraph in the committee report that interprets that, as well. That says:  
   The committee adopted an amendment offered by Senator HUTCHINSON, adding a new paragraph (2) to Section 721(b)--  
   Which is the same language in the amendment--   
   clarifying that plans may not hold a participant or beneficiary liable for any additional charges-- 
   That is not the issue of copayments or deductible; that is additional charges. This is what we used to refer to as double billing.  
   --from a nonparticipating provider who has provided emergency services for the participant or beneficiary. In many communities, plans and MCOs typically contract with specific providers and hospitals. However, an individual as a prudent layperson may seek services at the nearest facility, depending on the severity of the symptoms. It is the committee's intent to ensure that individuals acting under the prudent layperson standards are not held liable financially for exercising this right when they seek care at a non-network facility.  
   That refers to the double billing; that is, if you go to a nonparticipating emergency room, they can't charge you more. But the issue-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The subject of subparagraph 1 is the issue of whether they can charge you a different copayment or deductible; that is, if my standard deductible, if I go to an in-network emergency room, is, let's say, 20 percent, can I be charged a 70-percent copayment because I am going to an out-of-network? That is what both subparagraph 1 and the paragraph on top of page 29 of the committee report refers to. They are two significant and different concepts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. If we both have the same objective, which is to ensure that a family with a child with a 103-degree temperature won't be at an economic disadvantage by going to the nearest emergency room--if our desire is to encourage that, let's not be vague about it. Let us not leave this ambiguous. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. No one is served by ambiguity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Here is the problem. I am a court or I am an administrative agency trying to apply this law. I have exactly the same language in this amendment as was reported by the Senate committee of jurisdiction. That committee issued a report that, in very unambiguous language, specifically interprets these words to mean that you can't be charged more if you take your kid to the closest emergency room that doesn't happen to be a part of a participating network. 
   Now, you have said, Senator FRIST has said, and I think everybody agrees, that we don't want that to be the result. So why don't we get a set of words that removes any ambiguities so that no one, a year from now, can go back to this same report and read what the committee allegedly meant as applied to the Senate words. It is not a complicated concept to articulate. We ought to do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I don't mean to be repetitive, but my concern is that the language in the amendment is exactly the language that is in the underlying bill to which that committee report was written. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of this amendment to ensure that managed care enrollees have access to specialists. 
   Specialists are an integral part of our health care network. As a result, access to quality specialty care can often be a matter of life and death. In a recent Harvard study, 56 percent of doctors cited the bureaucracy involved with referrals to specialists as one of  their top three problems with HMOs. In addition, 40 percent of doctors felt limited by managed care companies from referring patients to appropriate specialists. 
   No managed care issue has raised more concern among consumers and providers alike than access to specialty care; especially the issue of having specialty physicians acting as primary care providers. Mr. President, you can imagine what a challenge this is for individuals with chronic or disabling conditions. 
   My own daughter has been in the position where she needed a specialist to coordinate her care. She had triplets a few years ago, and her medical needs were not unlike many young mothers in similar situations. I am convinced that my daughter's health would have been seriously compromised if she had been denied access to a multiple birth specialist. Multiple birth pregnancies are often high risk, but because she had the proper care, I can now gladly say that I am the proud grandfather of three beautiful girls. 
   The language in this amendment would ensure that if an individual has a condition or disease of sufficient severity and complexity to require treatment by a specialist, and the benefit is provided under the plan, then the plan shall make or provide for a referral to a specialist who is able to provide the treatment for such condition or disease. 
   The rigid restrictions by some HMOs on who can and cannot serve as a primary care physician are another obstacle to access to specialty care. In fact, several states (Indiana, Kentucky, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York and Texas) allow an enrollee with chronic health problems to select a specialists, such as a neurologist, a mental health provider, or a cancer specialist as their main health care provider. 
   A recent Families USA report--``HMO Consumers at Risk--States to the Rescue''--cites far too many cases where a patient's care was compromised because their primary care physician lacked the expertise to deal effectively with their particular chronic condition. 
   I cite the case of Ms. N., a 51-year-old woman with multiple sclerosis (MS). Although her primary care physician agreed that she had MS, he would not refer her to a neurologist. He said that since MS cannot be cured, a specialist could do her no good. 
   In another situation, an eight-year-old boy was not allowed to visit his cystic fibrosis (CF) care center for routine checkups even though regularly scheduled visits to a CF care center are essential to treatment. His primary care physician did not believe that aggressive treatment was appropriate, as patients with cystic fibrosis do not have a ``good prognosis.'' 
   Every Member of this body would demand the best care for their child. If a specialist was best suited to provide that care, then every one of my colleagues would insist that their child receive that care regardless of cost and coverage. Why not guarantee this same right to the rest of the American people? 
   In addition, a recent survey by the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship stated that oncologists should be the primary managers of care for individuals with cancer. To support their argument they cited factors such as: the complexities of treating cancer; their specific knowledge of long-term and late effects, rehabilitative services, pain management and hospice; and the importance of early detection and treatment for survivors who have an increased risk for second malignancies. 
   With regard to out-of-network specialists, the Republican bill lacks basic protections to ensure that patients can see doctors qualified to treat their condition. For example, a child with diabetes should be able to receive care from a pediatric endocrinologist. However, if there is no pediatric endocrinologist available in the network to provide care for the child with diabetes, the family should be able to seek care from an out-of-network physician at no addition cost. 
   We must ensure access to qualified specialists, outside of the network if necessary, and without high out-of-pocket expenses for enrollees who are forced to go outside the plan to be treated by the needed specialist. 
   The Republican bill also fails to hold a plan responsible for not having an adequate network of specialists. In fact, Sec. 725 in the Republican bill states that ``such access may be provided through contractual arrangement with specialized providers outside the network of the plan.'' 
   Beneficiaries should not have to suffer because of their health plans' inadequacies. They should receive the care they need by the most appropriate health professional. The Republican bill's guarantee to specialists is weak and does not even guarantee that children can see pediatric specialists. 
   Finally, the legislation we are considering today only provides access to specialists for only 48 million Americans with private insurance. It leaves out the 113 million individuals who choose to enroll in managed care plans. 
   Plans should provide patients with an adequate network of physicians, and when they fail to do so, should allow the beneficiary to step out of the network at no extra charge. We must protect our frailest and sickest patients. Individuals with life-threatening and disabling conditions should be allowed the use specialists--the best source of information and care for specific and advanced diseases--to coordinate care. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator from Arkansas yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I will try to ask short questions, and I will appreciate short answers. 
   One, you signed the committee report which, on page 29, says the committee believes it would be acceptable to have a differential cost sharing for in-network and out-of-network emergency charges. Are you saying that statement of explanation of the bill is incorrect? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. When will you submit the language that will clarify what the committee report states? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Two, with reference to poststabilization, what the current law for Medicare requires, and what this would require, is that the emergency room call the HMO and request the HMO's authorization as to what treatment to provide in the poststabilization environment. It is only when the HMO is unresponsive--in the case of Medicare, within 1 hour. If they fail to respond, then the emergency room has the right to do what it thinks is medically necessary for the patient. 
   Now, did the committee hear any testimony that there had been major abuses under the Medicare 1-hour-respond-to-call standard? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The question is, Was there any testimony to the kinds of abuses you have outlined under the current Medicare law? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Did the committee hold hearings on this bill, and did they not ask anybody what has happened under the 2 1/2 years of experience we have had with Medicare and Medicaid? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Can the opponents of this amendment put into evidence before the full Senate and the American people what those abuses have been? We have had 2 1/2 years of experience, covering 70 million Americans. If there have been abuses, they ought to be available and not just speculated about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Let me go to a third issue. I discussed this yesterday. In the Republican bill, it states that while the person is stretched out in the emergency room under tremendous physical and emotional stress, they have the responsibility of monitoring the emergency room physician to determine if the type 
   of diagnosis that the emergency room physician is rendering is appropriate. Could you explain how a person in an emergency room circumstance is supposed to provide that  kind of second-guessing of an emergency room physician? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That is another defect. The use of the word ``appropriate'' is a gaping loophole. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I am concerned about the further provision which says that the patient is responsible for second-guessing the appropriateness of care rendered by the emergency room physician. Is that going to be taken care of? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I suggest that the Senator might read the bill and see that it is precisely what the bill says. I am concerned because we had a discussion last night with Dr. FRIST, and now today, which indicates that the Republican proposal has a number of admitted inconsistencies, inaccuracies, and gaping holes. Rather than us relying upon an amendment nobody has seen that is supposed to rectify those, why don't we vote for the Democratic amendment that would solve these problems? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-13-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Well, I just offer a conclusion--not a question but a statement of fact. We have had 2 1/2 years of experience with 70 million Americans. Our proposal will be available to all Americans in the instances of rampant abuse. I think it is incumbent upon those who make these charges to document it rather than just pontificate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-14-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-15-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. With the additional time that the majority has, would they respond to questions on their time? Would they at least cite in the bill the language that they believe is insufficient and creates an ambiguity? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-16-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Does the Senator from Arkansas yield? The Senator from Arkansas will not yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-17-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, virtually every provision in both versions of the Patients' Bill of Rights starts with a phrase similar to this: If a group health plan or health insurance coverage offered by a health insurer provides any benefits with respect to specialist care, emergency service care, primary care, then this is what they have to do. What does that say? 
   One, it says no health plan is required to offer virtually any of the services that are covered by this bill. It is all a matter of free contract between the HMO and those persons to whom an HMO contract is being sold. The analogy is, what is it that you buy when you sign an HMO contract that says you are going to get access to specialists. 
   To stay with the McDonald's example, the question is not what the hamburger costs. The question is whether there is any beef inside the hamburger or whether all you are paying for with your $2 is a couple of buns. 
   The fact is, if there is an increase in cost, it probably means people aren't getting the kind of services they think they are getting when they contract with an HMO. We found out, as it relates to Medicare, that 40 percent of the complaints by Medicare beneficiaries against their HMO were in the emergency room. They went to the emergency room, they got treatment, and then they were found not to have a heart attack, not to have the onset of a stroke. That was the good news. The bad news was the HMO said: Well, because you went to the emergency room and you didn't have a heart attack, we are not going to pay your bill. 
   Is that the way we want to hold down the cost of care, by having essentially a bait-and-switch process built into one of the most intimate aspects of an American family's relationships, and that is how their health care will be provided and paid for? 
   The issue is whether people are going to get what they contracted for. If they don't want to contract for these services and therefore have a lower cost product, they are at liberty to do so. 
   The irony is, to go back to the last discussion we were having on the emergency room, the very provision that apparently is going to be substantially altered, in the unseen, unread, unknown Republican amendment that is being offered as an alternative to my emergency room amendment, has to do with poststabilization care. According to the oldest and one of the largest HMOs in the country, Kaiser-Permanente, which has voluntarily adopted exactly the procedure we are suggesting should be the standard for emergency room contract provisions, their use of poststabilization has saved them money. How has that happened? 
   Take the case of a child who has a high fever. The parents take the child to the emergency room. It is determined the child does not have a life-threatening condition, but there is uncertainty as to why they have had this high fever. 
   Under the Kaiser plan, the emergency room calls the HMO and says: Here is what the situation is with this child. What do you think would be the appropriate medical treatment? The HMO, Kaiser, and the emergency room work out a coordinated plan of treatment. In many cases, what it says is the child can go back home if the child, at 9 o'clock in the morning, will come to Kaiser's primary care physician to be treated. That is why Kaiser says it is not only good health but also it saves money. 
   Ironically, the first amendment offered, after it is stated 
   by the opposition that they are going to strip, dilute, adulterate this provision which has the potential of saving money, is to offer this saccharin amendment which says: Now we will put a limitation on increases in cost. 
   I think we are all concerned about cost. We are all concerned about making health care more affordable and reducing the number of uninsured. But we want people who contract with an HMO to get what they paid for, not to get the two buns but no beef in their McDonald's hamburger. 
   Mr. GRAMM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, most of us here have already voted in favor of the amendment which is before us. In 1997 we adopted virtually this identical language as it relates to the 70 million Americans who are covered either by Medicare or Medicaid. So the question before us is, Should we adopt a different standard of emergency room care for the rest, for the other 190 million Americans? 
   There are two principal differences between the current law for Medicare and Medicaid and what the Republican alternative would propose. First, as to access to the nearest available emergency room, the current Medicare/Medicaid law says you have the right to go to the nearest emergency room without any additional charge. That is the same provision that is in this amendment. The Republican provision says that a differential charge can be made so you would have to pay more if it happened that the closest emergency room was not an emergency room affiliated with your health maintenance organization. 
   The second difference is poststabilization care. What is poststabilization care? I quote the language from the Medicare regulations:  
   Poststabilization care means medically necessary nonemergency services needed to assure that the enrollee remains stabilized from the time that the treating hospital requests authorization from the health maintenance organization.  
   Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries get the benefit of poststabilization care. Our amendment would make that benefit available to all 190 million non-Medicare/Medicaid Americans. The Republican bill would not. It would not say that you are entitled to medically necessary services to continue you in a stabilized condition after you had contacted your HMO and received authorization to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, there is no reason why all Americans should not have the same benefits that we voted less than 3 years ago to make available to the 70 million Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to join the distinguished chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee in introducing legislation that creates a federal complement to efforts of state governments, local communities, and the private sector to make future disasters cost less. 
   Mr. President, I am a life-long Floridian. When children grow up in Florida they learn, usually from first hand experience, to expect devastating storm activity in their communities. Hurricane Season is an annual event. Florida suffers from often violent summer storms, tornadoes, and wildfires. With all of this natural disaster activity in my state alone, you can image that the costs of paying for the damages incurred by these events is quite staggering. These costs require the immediate action of Congress. 
   In August of 1992, Hurricane Andrew roared ashore in the middle of the night and devastated much of South Florida. The total costs of cleanup and rebuilding from Hurricane Andrew was $36 billion. This includes nearly $16 billion in total insured loses, of which $12 billion were homeowner policies. After Andrew 10 private insurance companies in the State of Florida were rendered insolvent and had to leave the state. Nearly 960,000 insurance policies were canceled or not renewed. 
   There may be more Hurricane Andrew's in our future. The National Weather Service has predicted 1999 will be an extremely active hurricane season. They have estimated that up to 14 named storms will develop in the Atlantic Ocean, 10 of those are expected to become hurricanes. 
   The rising costs associated with events such as Hurricane Andrew have also demonstrated that insurers face the risk of insolvency if they are overly concentrated in vulnerable regions of our country. Since 1992, insurers have widely avoided writing policies in disaster prone areas of Florida. A congressional report on this subject revealed that the total supply of available reinsurance is approximately $7 billion. This is only 10 percent of the potential loss which might occur from a worst case natural disaster scenario. 
   Companies that provide insurance of last resort have entered disaster-vulnerable insurance markets and filled this vacuum. Generally, these products of last resort provide less coverage than a commercial property insurance policy, but at much greater price. In Florida, such a policy averages in excess of 500 percent as compared to a commercial policy. 
   State Insurance Commissions and state legislatures have literally created rainy day funds in an attempt to prevent an insurance availability crisis. This includes: Florida Catastrophe Reinsurance Fund, the California Earthquake Authority, and the Hawaii Hurricane Relief Fund. In my State of Florida, we have also created programs to provide insurance for those who cannot purchase insurance from any private source because of the risk involved including the Florida Joint Underwriters Associations, and the expansion of the Florida Windstorm Underwriters Association. 
   Our recent experience tells us that it is time for Congress to help reverse the rising costs of natural disasters. The Natural Disaster Protection and Insurance Act of 1999 is a step in the right direction. This legislation directs the Secretary of the Treasury to carry out a program to make reinsurance available for purchase by eligible state programs, private insurers and reinsurers by way of auctions. It provides a backstop for state-operated insurance programs, and complements existing insurance industry efforts without encroaching upon the private sector. 
   This initiative appropriately allows state and industry leaders to assist in addressing local needs. Specifically, 
   Contractural coverage would include residential property losses resulting from disasters. 
   The Treasury Department would be prohibited from offering any coverage that competes with or replaces private insurers. 
   A portion of the premiums would go to a mitigation fund to support state level emergency preparedness. 
   This initiative is a bipartisan and bicameral effort. My Florida colleague, Congressman BILL MCCOLLUM, has joined Representative LAZIO to lead this effort in the House of Representatives. We have been working closely with the Administration, affected state and local level organizations, and private realtors and insurers. We all agree that the insurance industry cannot endure the ravage of large scale natural disasters alone. Action at the federal level is needed to continue insuring individual homeowners and business in areas vulnerable to catastrophe. 
   Mr. President, we have an opportunity today to continue the working partnership between the federal government, states, local communities and the private sector. The consequences of insurance shortages and exposure to known hazards must be addressed immediately. I encourage my colleagues to support this initiative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded for purposes of a parliamentary inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I had thought that the Senator from Oklahoma was yielding back the remainder of the time on that amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Therefore, I was going to offer the next in order second-degree amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, parliamentary inquiry. How much time is remaining on this amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Is the time running during the quorum call? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that two members of my staff, Mr. Matt Barry and Ms. Melanie Nathanson, be granted the privilege of the floor for the balance of consideration of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, on behalf of the Senators listed, I offer an amendment relative to emergency care services. 
   This is a particularly critical issue because so many of the conflicts between beneficiaries and their health maintenance organizations occur in an emergency room setting. 
   When the Senate in 1997 adopted provisions that extended to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries--the same rights that this amendment will now provide to all Americans--we discussed the fact that 40 percent--40 percent--of the conflicts between Medicare beneficiaries and HMOs occurred in an emergency room setting. 
   Questions of coverage, type of coverage, and what would happen after the patient was stabilized was the cauldron in which many of the disagreements between HMOs and beneficiaries were fought out. 
   Just as the Medicare and Medicaid provisions which were adopted by the Congress and signed into law by the President have helped to relieve that tension for 70 million Americans, this amendment will attempt to do the same for the rest of Americans. 
   This amendment also raises a couple of other important issues. 
   One of those is what I call the ``big monster argument''--that anything that we do is going to inevitably lead to an escalation of cost and an escalation of Federal regulation and bureaucracy and an overwhelming of the patients' ability to get affordable health care. 
   I would like to point out the first sentence of this amendment. The first sentence is essentially, if the health 
   care plan offers emergency services, then these are the standards that will have to be met.  
   The clear implication of that is that no HMO under this amendment is required to offer emergency room services. If the HMO wishes to go to its beneficiaries and say, Now, look, you are not covered if you go to the emergency room--you understand that--and the fee that you are going to pay for your HMO contract is predicated on the fact that emergency room services are not covered, the HMO has the prerogative of so doing. If the HMO gives the appearance that it is offering emergency room services, then it is required to offer credible emergency room services that comport to what the average American thinks they are going to get in an emergency room. 
   So the ``big monster argument'' that this is going to have all of these adverse effects is irrelevant as long as the HMO plays by the rules. It cannot offer emergency room services at all. But once it purports to do so, it can't bait and switch and say, Yes, you thought you were getting comprehensive emergency room coverage, but in fact you are getting something much, much less. 
   The second argument is what I call the ``checking off the boxes'' argument. We have heard it already. We will say, well, the plan of the Republicans offers an external appeal provision, and the Democratic plan offers an external appeal provision. So we check both of them with an equally large mark. We have an emergency room provision. You have an emergency room provision. Check, check--both get the same large mark. 
   The problem is that it is not just a matter of checking off the boxes. It is a matter of seeing what inside the box. What are the actual words? What is the detail? Words make a difference. Details matter. We are not talking about semantics or legalisms. We are talking about whether in the final analysis the beneficiary--the American family--gets the kind of protection that they think they paid for. 
   There will be other colleagues who will discuss important distinctions between the two bills. I want to focus on two of those differences. 
   I look forward to a debate with my Republican colleagues on these two differences, whether they are meaningful, and whether they have properly stated what the Republican provisions are. 
   The first of those distinctions is hidden in the Republican bill in language which effectively eviscerates the ``prudent layperson standard'' that is at the heart of the emergency care provision. 
   What is the prudent layperson standard? This is a standard which is now in the Medicare law and the Medicaid law by action of Congress. It essentially says if a prudent layperson--a layperson of normal intelligence and knowledge of health and medical matters--thinks symptoms occurring require urgent attention, that prudent layperson can then seek the attention of the most available emergency room, and the HMO will be responsible for paying the costs of that emergency room service. 
   How does the Republican bill eviscerate that basic principle, which now protects 70 million Americans on Medicare and Medicaid? The Republican bill allows for the imposition of ``any form of cost-sharing applicable to any participant or beneficiary (including copayments, deductibles, and any other [form of] charges.......if such form of cost-sharing is uniformly applied under such plan with respect to similarly situated beneficiaries.'' 
   Now, what does that mean? It means that a patient who goes to a hospital that is not part of the network of the HMO will have to pay, according to the HMO's plans, for additional deductibles, coinsurance, and other charges, while a person who is in the same position of an emergency medical crisis, who goes to the in-network hospital will not be required to pay those additional out-of-network charges. 
   The practical effect of that distinction is to create a strong economic incentive for the prudent layperson who thinks they have symptoms requiring emergency attention. If they understand they could go to the emergency room which is 5 minutes away but which is not part of their HMO's network or they could go to the emergency room that is 30 minutes away and be within the network of the HMO, and that there will be a significant economic differential as to what that choice is, then you have a prudent layperson making a critical decision. Will I go to the emergency room that offers the most immediate attention to my condition, or will I go to the emergency room where the cost will be less? 
   How do we know this is what was meant in the Republican version of the emergency room provisions in the Patients' Bill of Rights? Because they said it in very clear language in the committee's report of this section, which appears on page 29. I will read from that report:  
   The Committee believes that it would be acceptable to have a differential cost-sharing for in-network emergency coverage and out-of-network emergency coverage, so long as such cost-sharing is uniformly applied across a category (i.e. [across all] in-network, out-of-network).....[beneficiaries and providers.]  
   I suggest there goes the prudent layperson definition, or the rationale for the prudent layperson definition, right out the window. 
   The Democratic plan provides explicitly that there will be parity payment between in-network and out-of-network emergency room services; that is, the prudent layperson would have the right to go to what is the most prudently accessible emergency room to get that service. 
   I suggest what is good for 70 million Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries should be good for all Americans. Patients should 
   not be required to call an insurance bureaucrat to see if they can get emergency room care approved before they go to the emergency room. They shouldn't have to call their HMO before they call 911. That is the very thing we are trying to prevent. Patients should be able to seek the treatment wherever it can be provided--inside or outside the network--and not be subject to economic compulsion. 
   That is one important differential between the Republican and the Democratic bill. That little devil was in the details. 
   Another provision called poststabilization is a crucial component of emergency room care. This provision relates to what happens after a person has gone to the emergency room, had that immediate treatment, and their condition is now stabilized; what happens next? 
   Let me give an example. A person goes to an emergency room on a Friday night with shortness of breath, high fever, pain in the left side of their chest. They are diagnosed by the emergency room as having not a heart attack but acute pneumonia. The emergency room treats the patient with intravenous antibiotics and oxygen. The emergency department then calls the HMO to request one of two things be done: that the plan take responsibility for the patient by having the patient transferred to one of their in-network hospitals, or the plan authorize the admission of the patient to the treating hospital. 
   Unfortunately, this is a Friday night, about 10 or 11 o'clock, and no one picks up the phone at the other end of the line. The hospital is stuck; the party is stuck. The hospital cannot transfer the patient to another facility but it can't get authorization to admit the patient to its own facility. As a result, the emergency room does admit the individual for treatment. On Monday, the patient goes home. 
   The health care plan has not authorized the treatment. It now denies the claim, retroactively, after the hospital services have been provided. Under the Republican bill, the patient is responsible for the noncovered hospital bill, potentially for several thousand dollars for that weekend institutionalization. 
   Under our amendment, the nonresponsive HMO would be financially responsible for that bill. Better yet, we see a different scenario. Under our amendment, we see the health plan with a positive incentive to coordinate the patient's care with the emergency department. The patient was transferred to a network facility, which in turn has saved all overall health costs both for the patient and the health plan--a win-win scenario. 
   Let me give an example of this coordination. A parent brings their young child into an emergency room with a high fever. The emergency physician rules out a life-threatening illness. She brings the fever under control, thereby stabilizing the patient. However, follow-up care is necessary to determine the cause of the high fever and the extent and nature of the illness. The emergency room calls the  plan to get the plan to refer the child to a primary care doctor. The plan doesn't call back. What is the result? The child is admitted to the hospital overnight, potentially costing the family thousands of dollars of unnecessary hospitalization and emotionally traumatizing the child. 
   Under the Republican proposal, the plan gets a double windfall. First, the plan saves the money of having to staff ``response capability,'' particularly on the weekend, and by not having personnel to respond to that emergency room call and to make treatment decisions. That is not all. The HMO also saves; when the emergency room treats the patient without prior authorization, the health plan can then go back and claim the care was unnecessary and refuse to pay. 
   What the Democratic poststabilization provision is all about is simply requiring the health plan to take responsibility for the patient by answering the phone when the emergency room calls, and then either authorizing treatment, referring follow-up primary care, or transferring the individual. 
   There are those who say this provision places an unwarranted burden on the HMO. But let's give an example of one of the Nation's oldest and largest health maintenance organizations, Kaiser-Permanente. 
   Kaiser-Permanente endorses this position and has implemented the poststabilization requirement voluntarily. Guess what. After all the discussion about cost and the desire to maintain affordable and accessible health care, this provision has saved Kaiser-Permanente money. How could it do that? Because Kaiser has found that by coordinating care with the emergency room, it has been able to avoid unnecessary admissions through providing followup care at an outpatient facility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Parsons states:  
   By assuring immediate response to telephone inquiries from non-participating emergency facilities, we have been able to provide substantial assistance to the emergency doctor who otherwise is practicing in an isolated environment without access to the patient's medical record. 
   Our own emergency physicians on the telephone have offered peer consultations, personally approved coverage for urgently needed tests and treatment, arranged for the coordination of follow up care, and implemented critical care transportation of patients back to our own facilities. Of over 2,000 patients transported in this fashion, one third have been discharged to their homes. Without this coordination of care, these patients would have been hospitalized at needless expense.  
   For example, to go back to my hypothetical of the child with the high fever without signs of a bacterial infection, they could have been sent home if there were arrangements made for the child to see a doctor the next day. But absent the communication between the plan and the emergency room, the emergency room admits the child. If the insurance company plays by the rules, as Kaiser-Permanente, it will now be only out the $50 for a routine primary care visit rather than the $1,000 or more that it might be out if the child is admitted to the hospital. 
   So why are companies such as Kaiser coordinating poststabilization care with emergency departments? They are doing it because it is good health care and it is good business. I point out again, this is the same provision that the Congress passed in 1997 as it relates to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries who currently have this poststabilization coordination of care coverage. 
   So how the amendment is drafted, what the amendment says, what the details are, makes all the difference. This is not just a matter of checking off the box. It is a matter of looking inside that box to see if the prudent layperson provision, which both versions purport to offer--is it meaningful? The person who exercises prudence by going to the nearest emergency room, not necessarily the nearest emergency room that happens to be part of the network of the HMO, will they be financially protected? 
   The person who has been stabilized--and now the question is what needs to be done to deal with the underlying cause of their symptoms--will they be financially protected when the HMO fails to respond to the request for specific authorization? Those are the types of real differences that make the difference between the two alternative versions of emergency room care that are before the Senate. 
   I urge my colleagues to study these differences and to be mindful of the other differences that will be articulated by the other cosponsors of this amendment. I urge their support for this amendment that makes emergency room care real for the families of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. And so, Mr. President, as I stated early in my remarks, how the amendment is drafted, and what the amendment says, makes all the difference.  
   It's not good enough just to check off the boxes. That's why I urge the adoption of our amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-13-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, will the Senator from Tennessee yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-14-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-15-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. First, on the question of prudent layperson, you are correct; both bills have essentially the same language on a prudent layperson, but there is a very sharp difference in terms of the economic exposure of that prudent layperson, whether they are in a hospital as part of the HMO's network or in a hospital that is not part of the network. 
   The Democratic plan clearly states there must be parity of treatment; that is, if you are in an out-of-network hospital, you cannot be charged more than if you are in an in-network hospital. 
   The Republican bill--and I will quote from the committee report, which is on our desks, on page 29. This is the committee that reported the Republican bill, the Labor Committee. The first full paragraph states:  
   The committee believes that it would be acceptable to have a differential cost-sharing for in-network emergency coverage and out-of-network emergency coverage, so long as such cost-sharing is applied consistently across a category (i.e., in-network, out-of-network) and uniformly to similarly situated individuals and communicated in advance to participants and beneficiaries.......  
   What that language seems to say to me is that under the Republican proposal, if you have a standard copay, let's say, of 20 percent if you are inside the HMO network but it is a 50-percent copay if you are out of the network, and you end up in the emergency room that is out of the network because it was the one closest to where you were when you had that chest pain, you may end up having to pay 50 percent of the emergency room bill rather than 20 percent that you would have had to pay in your in-network emergency room, which is what the Democratic bill would provide, that you would pay whatever emergency room from which you ended up receiving that emergency service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-16-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, that response was so satisfactory and indicated the kind of spirit which I hope this debate over the next 3 1/2 days will sustain; that we are all trying to do what is best for patients and that we will work together to get to that end. 
   I have no further questions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-17-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, how much time remains on this amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-18-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield myself such time as is necessary and ask to be notified when there are 5 minutes remaining for the proponents of the amendment. 
   When I spoke earlier, I said the devil was in the details, and I took some time to talk about two of those details, which were the question of cost sharing, whether you went to an emergency room that was inside the HMO's network or outside the network and, therefore, created an economic incentive under the Republican plan to not go to the emergency room that might be closest and most appropriate and, in instances, the life-saving emergency room. Then we talked about poststabilization care, whether the HMO could, by just not answering the telephone, not giving authorization, put the hospital and the patient in the situation where they had to take either a medical risk or an economic risk. 
   Let me mention two other specific areas which I think deserve the attention of the Senate where there are differences between the Republican and the Democratic proposal. 
   First is the issue of what is the kind of initial care that one will receive when they go into the emergency room as a prudent layperson. That is, they have exercised common sense as a layperson, that they have a symptom that could be emergent in character and, therefore, they should go to an emergency room. 
   In the Democratic plan, the definition of the services that will be provided are: A medical screening examination that is within the capability of the emergency department of a hospital, including ancillary services routinely available to the emergency department to evaluate an emergency medical condition. That is the definition of the services to which you are entitled. 
   In the Republican bill, here is the definition: The plan shall provide coverage for benefits without requiring prior preauthorization for appropriate emergency medical screening examinations. 
   Now, are we going to get into the situation a week, a month, a year after  the emergency services have been provided that there will be a raging debate between the emergency room physician and the HMO as to whether the services that were provided were appropriate? Or should we not use the language that is in the Democratic provision which clearly states that it will be those services that are within the capability of the emergency department of the hospital? 
   The second concern is: What is the responsibility of the prudent layperson while you are lying there on the gurney having emergency diagnosis? Under the Republican plan, it states that to the extent that a prudent layperson who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine would determine such examinations to be necessary to determine whether emergency medical care is necessary. 
   Do they really mean to say that here is this person who is having symptoms of a heart attack, is stretched out, is attached to all kinds of medical equipment, is obviously in a very distressed physical condition and probably in a very distressed emotional condition, that now this prudent layperson has to be so prudent as to second-guess whether the examinations that the emergency room physician is providing are the kind of examinations that should be provided? Presumably, if the prudent layperson in that almost comatose state doesn't make the right judgment as to what examination the emergency room physician should be rendering, those services won't be covered by the HMO. 
   That provision is so extreme as to shock the conscience of a prudent layperson who is just reading the language in the Republican bill. I am hopeful that the kind of spirit of common sense that our colleague, Dr. FRIST, the Senator from Tennessee, expressed would apply to focusing on these provisions. 
   The fortunate aspect of this proposal is that we don't have to totally operate in an environment of hope and guess. As the Senator from Montana stated, it has now been almost 3 years since this Senate and our colleagues in the House of Representatives, and the President of the United States, joined hands to adopt an emergency room provision for Medicare and for Medicaid covering almost 70 million Americans. We have had 3 years of experience under virtually the identical language that is now in the amendment before us. 
   My exploration with emergency room physicians, who strongly support this amendment, with HCFA, the Federal agency with the responsibility for the administration of the Medicare program in conjunction with the States, of the Medicaid program, have not pointed out that there have been this parade of horribles as a result of that legislation. If someone has other evidence they would like to offer, I urge them to do so. 
   I do not believe such testimony was given before the Labor Committee, when it considered this legislation, that indicated there had been a cratering of health care services in the emergency room for Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries, 
   or an escalation of cost as a result of the actions of the Congress and the President just some 3 years ago. 
   So I suggest that the prudent senatorial course of action on this matter would be to adopt the amendment that is before us. It is an amendment that we have already voted on in previous years as it relates to Medicare and Medicaid. We have a positive track record. We don't need to take chances with the emergency room treatment of the other almost 190 million Americans who are not under Medicare or Medicaid. 
   So in the spirit of the good will expressed by our colleague from Tennessee, I look forward to a close examination, and I hope that at the conclusion of that examination we will support and reaffirm the wisdom and judgment that we made in 1997. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-19-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum and ask unanimous consent that the time be charged to the opponents of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I will need 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I want all to know that there is no disagreement with the objectives, the end goals being sought by the advocates of this amendment and those of us who oppose it. I believe we are all Americans of good conscience and we seek for the Cuban people what we seek for ourselves. We seek a nation that lives with the freedoms associated with democracy. We seek a nation that respects the basic human rights of its people. We seek a nation which will encourage an economy that offers hope to the people of Cuba. 
   We have had a long association with Cuba. It is an association which runs almost to the first Spanish exploration of our two nations. We were a major participant in the freedom of Cuba in 1898. In fact, we had celebrations within the last few months of our participation in the independence of Cuba. 
   So our goals for those people, our feeling for the people of Cuba, is a shared one. The question is, What is the appropriate course of U.S. policy to achieve those goals? I believe, as with every other question of what U.S. foreign policy should be, it should be a mixture of a consideration of our national interests and a consideration of the universal values for which America has stood since those words in the Declaration of Independence that declared that we saw that all men--not just American men, not just men, but women--that all persons had certain inalienable rights. Those have been an important factor in our relationships with other peoples of other nations. 
   On the specific issue of the use of travel restrictions as a part of that U.S. foreign policy, Senator TORRICELLI has talked about the way in which travel restrictions were imposed on Libya and the fact that those restrictions had certain objectives and have had certain consequences. 
   The Presiding Officer and I have been interested in the issue of Lebanon for a long time. The United States had travel restrictions on Americans visiting Lebanon. The purpose of those travel restrictions was to encourage changes that would create a greater sense of security. While there are still tense days, as we have seen in the very recent past, it is now considered appropriate to allow Americans to begin again to visit Lebanon. 
   We have used travel restrictions as a means of achieving goals that were considered to be important to the United States in the past. 
   Yes, we are using a restriction on travel to Cuba as part of the larger, comprehensive restriction on relationships with the Government of Cuba while we attempt to achieve increased contacts with the people of Cuba. 
   There is an assumption that if the United States does not open up its travel restrictions, the Cuban people are going to walk down sidewalks that are barren of foreign travelers and the Cuban people will not have contact with the outside world. In fact, almost 100,000 Americans visited Cuba last year under the various provisions of our existing law. In addition to that, some of the major nations of the world, nations with which we have the closest relationship, such as Spain and Canada, have an open policy, in terms of travel to Cuba, for their citizens. 
   When you ask Spaniards or Canadians, what effect has your open policy towards Cuba had? what effect have the relationships you have had in these instances for decades with the Castro regime had? have you seen a change in the commitment to democracy? have you seen, as a result of your openness towards Cuba, a greater degree of respect for human rights? the answer is a sad no. These democracies, these nations which share our values and which have taken the course of action that is being advocated by the proponents of this amendment, have seen no effect in achieving the goals we share for Cuba--democracy, human rights, and an open economy. 
   What gives us reason to believe that adopting an unconsidered, undebated--other than the words we speak this afternoon--major change in our policy toward Cuba would have any different result? Recent events, in fact, are to the contrary. 
   In January of last year, 1998, a significant, what many hoped would be a historic, turning point event occurred in Cuba. The Pope visited that island. Many hoped, prayed, believed that it would lead to fundamental change in Cuba. 
   We reinforced the momentum of the papal visit by a number of initiatives towards Cuba. On March 20, 1998, just a few weeks after the Pope had departed, in an attempt to build goodwill towards Cuba, President Clinton announced the resumption of licensing for direct humanitarian flights to Cuba. 
   The President announced the resumption of cash remittances to Cuba. 
   The President asked for the development of licensing procedures to  streamline and expedite the commercial sale of medicine, medical supplies, and medical equipment to Cuba. 
   Continuing in that vein, on January 9 of this year the President authorized additional steps to reach out to the Cuban people. The new measures expanded remittances by allowing any United States citizens, not just family members, to send limited funds to the people of Cuba. The President expanded people-to-people contacts. The President allowed charter 
   passenger flights to cities other than Havana and to initiate from cities other than Miami. 
   The measures also permitted an effort to establish direct mail service to Cuba. The measures also authorized the sale of food and agricultural inputs to independent, nongovernmental entities, including religious groups, family restaurants, and farmers. 
   All of those are initiatives which the United States has taken since January of 1998 in hopes that it would result in a reciprocal response of some loosening of the police state that is Cuba today. 
   What happened to all of those initiatives the United States took? What happened to the initiatives that were hoped to flow from the papal visit? 
   The Cuban Government responded to our United States initiatives by calling these actions acts of aggression. That is what the Cuban Government labeled the opening of additional flights, of direct mail, of allowing greater remittances to the people of Cuba. Fidel Castro called all of those actions acts of aggression. 
   What did Fidel Castro do in the context of the visit by the Pope? Almost exactly a year after the Pope departed Cuba, the Cuban Government passed a new security law. That law criminalized any form of cooperation or participation in prodemocracy efforts. That law imposed penalties ranging from 20 to 30 years for those who were found to be cooperating with the U.S. Government. Those are the responses of Fidel Castro to the papal visit. 
   On March 1, four prominent human rights dissidents were tried in secrecy for their peaceful criticism of the Communist Party. Diplomats were barred from attendance at the trial. These four human rights and prodemocracy dissidents were held for over 1 year without charges. They were found guilty. They were sentenced to jail terms, for advocating human rights and democracy, of 3 1/2 to 5 years. 
   This did not happen 40 years ago. This happened in March of 1999. The Cuban Government ignored calls from the Vatican and the international community for release. Canada, the European Union, and several Latin American countries criticized the Cuban Government and stated their intention to reassess their relationship with the Government. The King of Spain had a scheduled visit to Cuba which he has deferred, in large part because of the treatment of these four dissidents. 
   Cuba's human rights record in 1999 reflects a continued policy of repression, a policy which has been recognized not just by the United States, not just by the people of Cuba who suffer under the yoke of oppression, but by the international community. 
   In its annual report on human rights, which was released earlier this year, Amnesty International states that at least 350 political prisoners remained imprisoned in Cuban cells in 1998. Amnesty International reports that 10 unarmed civilians were shot, executed by Cuban authorities, in 1998. 
   As we know, the Senate passed a resolution by a vote of 98-0 on March 25 of this year stating that the United States would make all efforts necessary to pass a resolution criticizing Cuba for its human rights records before the U.N. Commission on Human Rights. We were very pleased when the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, with support of nations which just in the last 2 years had opposed such a resolution, passed a resolution on April 23 condemning Cuba for its human rights abuses. 
   Finally, the State Department country report on human rights practices detailed the same human rights abuses as last year and the year before. 
   We have made an effort to reach out to Cuba. We have made an effort to send a signal that we were looking for some reciprocity, some demonstration of a wavering in the steel-hard police state which has been Cuba for 40 years. 
   One is hard pressed to see even the faintest breeze of a positive response to our efforts. The examples of human rights violations in all of these reports are numerous, brutal, and startling. Human rights activists are beaten in their homes. People are arbitrarily detained and arrested. Political prisoners are denied food and medicine brought by their own families. Children are made to stand in the rain chanting slogans against democracy. 
   In the United States, on May 7 of this year, the U.S. Government revised indictments against 14 Cuban spies captured in Miami last fall while attempting to penetrate the U.S. Southern Command, the United States Naval Air Station at Boca Chica Key near Key West, and planning terrorist acts against military installations. The revised indictments also charge 2 of the 14 with conspiracy to commit murder in the 1996 shoot down of the Brothers to the Rescue fliers. 
   It is at this point that I must become personal. I know the families of the four fliers who were shot down over international waters, now we know, at the direct command of the highest officials of the Cuban Government. If homicide is defined as the intentional taking of a human life, four acts of homicide occurred over the Straits of Florida against three U.S. citizens and one U.S. resident. 
   This is the nature of the response that Fidel Castro has given to the efforts by the Pope, by the international community, and by the United States to try to ask, to plead for some relief for the people of Cuba. 
   As these examples show, as the continuing reign of repression flows from week to week, from day to day in Cuba this is not the time for lifting any of the sanctions on Cuba. This is the time for us to hold the line on our policy, to continue to reach out to the people of Cuba in hopes that someday they will breathe the free air of democracy but to give no quarter to the oppressive Government of Fidel Castro. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I will be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That would certainly be one of the consequences. Another consequence, I say to my friend and colleague, would be that we would send a signal to Fidel Castro that we are prepared to do virtually anything without expecting anything in response; that the same thing that has happened to the Canadians, the Spaniards, to other European and Latin American countries--attempts to reach out to Castro, which are rebuffed in terms of those things that are most important to the people of Cuba--that now we would become complicitous in that 
   same process of unrequited love. 
   The last thing we have to play, the last policy option that is available to us as we try to influence Castro is exactly the embargo which, by this casual act tonight, we are being asked to begin to dismantle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. That is the story. Unfortunately, the people who those tourists will come in contact with will be the virtual serfs of the Castro regime because the hotels are required to purchase their employees through the Cuban Government, not by direct negotiation with the individual or through some organization representing those individuals. So by that walled-off enclave in which they are enjoying themselves, on an island of prosperity in a sea of despair--which is Cuba today --they are contributing to the maintenance of a system of economic slavery that virtually has left the face of the Earth for the past century and a half. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. And under the law which I alluded to, which was passed just in February of this year, that Cuban citizen who was found to be engaging in that friendly discussion about democracy and the graces that liberty brings to the human spirit will be subject to spending 20 to 30 years, without his freedom, in a Cuban cell precisely because he engaged in that conversation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Other than Guantanamo, I have not been to Cuba. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I think the point the Senator from New Jersey was raising in his question to me was that for many of those Europeans, Latin Americans, and Americans who go to Cuba, the nature of the hotel arrangements in which they live does not lend itself to the sort of interplay that, for instance, some of us experienced in places such as Prague and Budapest prior to the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
   It also is the case that Cuban citizens who, in those rare instances, might have an opportunity to relate with an American, since February of this year, face the prospect of being charged with a criminal act of collaborating with a United States citizen and face the prospect of spending 20 to 30 years in a 17th century cell. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I will conclude by saying that I ask those who think the United States changing its policy towards Cuba will have these miraculous effects in terms of breaking waves of freedom to the people that will crush what is an East German police state today--I only ask them to tell us what is the evidence, based on the outreach which has been made by countries such as Canada and Spain and European and Latin American countries, which largely share our values, which have been for 40 years in a continuous relationship with Cuba? 
   I think the answer to the question is, there are no such evidences that that outreach has had a positive effect on Cuba. We are dealing with a sui generis anachronism in Cuba. That degree of singularity requires the kind of singularity of foreign policy that we are directing towards it, with our hopes that soon the people of Cuba will be released from that hold and that our policy will have contributed to that release and will help to establish a basis for a transition to a Cuba that will be respectful of its people and with which the United States can have normal and peaceful and prosperous relationships. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am extremely pleased to join with my distinguished colleagues, Senator DEWINE and Senator FEINGOLD, in introducing the Law Enforcement Public Aviation Reform Act of 1999. This legislation will help law enforcement officers in their efforts to protect our citizens. In 1994, the Congress made a terrible mistake when it passed Public Law 103-411. Under this law, aircraft belonging to law enforcement agencies are considered ``commercial'' if costs incurred from flying missions to support neighboring jurisdictions are reimbursed. 
   In the last Congress, we were able to include an amendment on the Commerce, State, and Justice appropriations bill that would have made the necessary changes. Unfortunately, this measure was stripped from the final conference committee report. 
   This law has placed unnecessary restrictions and costly burdens on government agencies who operate public aircraft, particularly law enforcement agencies. At a time when law enforcement faces growing sophistication and organization of criminals, the federal government should not be placing additional mandates on our law enforcement officials. This law is so restrictive that it even prevents assistance from neighboring jurisdictions under mutual aid compacts. 
   Current law requires that the agency in need of assistance exhaust all commercially available options before requesting assistance from another jurisdiction. Even in the event of ``significant and imminent threat to life or property,'' the requesting agency must first establish that ``no service by a private operator was reasonably available to meet the threat.'' Law officers, pledged to protect public safety and fight crime, need the flexibility to determine the appropriate aircraft for any particular mission. They should not be required to offer private companies the right of first refusal on sensitive law enforcement missions. In  many cases, it is simply not appropriate to have private companies performing law enforcement or other governmental functions. 
   Under this bill, public agencies would be permitted to recover costs incurred by operating aircraft to assist other jurisdictions for the purpose of law enforcement, search and rescue, or imminent threat to life, property or natural resources. 
   Mr. President, law enforcement organizations strongly support this bill. This legislation has the endorsement of the National Sheriff's Association, Airborne Law Enforcement Association, International Association of Chiefs of Police, Florida Sheriff's Association, and the California State Sheriff's Associations. From my home state in Florida, I have heard from Sheriff George E. Knupp, Jr. of Lake County. Sheriff Knupp stated, ``Current law restricts our ability to use this aircraft in the best possible manner and frankly, the law questions the authority of a popularly elected official to exercise the duties and responsibilities of the office.'' 
   Our bipartisan proposed is simple, sound, and will serve the interests of law enforcement officials across this country. I urge all my colleagues to support the passage of this much needed legislation. Further delay in this matter will only serve to cost the American people unnecessary tax dollars and hamper the efforts of our law enforcement officials.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, over the past 18 months there has been a surge of steel imports. That surge has severely and adversely impacted the U.S. steel industry. 
   This crisis needs to be addressed and the effects of illegal dumping dealt with in a fair and equitable way. 
   I think the administration deserves credit for the series of steps, including bilateral agreements and vigorous enforcement of existing trade laws, that have greatly improved the steel situation in this country. Imports, as a result, are now down to below precrisis levels.  
   I support strong action to enforce our trade laws. I believe that trade policy should be by rule of law, not by anarchy, and that with such strong rule of law enforcement we will be able to assure U.S. workers that they are not hurt by illegal import surges. 
   However, I oppose this legislation because it has the potential of doing great damage to our economy and to the international trading system. It would violate our WTO commitments, thereby putting at risk many of the gains we have made in our economy in recent years. It would focus on a specific problem of the past but do nothing to deal with the next challenge to the rule of law in our trade policy. 
   I believe that the most at-risk sector of our economy would be agriculture. Agriculture today enjoys the biggest trade surplus of any sector of our economy. Other countries will see this as an opportunity to retaliate against U.S. industry, wiping out export markets that our agriculture producers have achieved. 
   We must address the problems of the steel industry in a way that does not violate our international agreements. I believe this can best be accomplished by making adjustments to section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, which is designed to deal with import surges. 
   Last week, the Senate Finance Committee passed out legislation which modifies section 201 so that it is more responsive to import surges. This legislation is a good first step, but more can be done. 
   The specific problems of perishable agriculture should be addressed so that seasonality can be taken into account when determining injury to a domestic industry. 
   We must ensure that U.S. industry has recourse to affective and timely relief when they are injured due to illegal import surges. If we cannot do this, our entire system of international trade, and the health of our domestic economy will be at risk. 
   For this reason, I will oppose cloture at this time and ask my colleagues to do the same. 
   I urge we deal with this problem by making our trade enforcement laws more effective, more able to respond to the challenges of the future, and not succumb to a violation of our trade agreements. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. 
   Mr. President, today I rise with my colleagues, Senators MACK, BINGAMAN, INOUYE, INHOFE, BURNS, BAUCUS, CRAPO, CRAIG, and FEINSTEIN, to introduce legislation entitled the Spaceport Investment Act. 
   On May 25th, the Cox Commission Report revealed alarming and long-standing instances of Chinese espionage that have damaged our national security. In addition to the theft of nuclear secrets at our National Laboratories, the Cox Report highlighted assistance provided by U.S. satellite manufacturers to Chinese military and civilian launch vehicles. Mr. President, we have helped to create the conditions leading to this sorry state of affairs. To borrow from Pogo, we have met the enemy, and it is us. 
   U.S. satellite manufacturers have faced increasing pressure to consider the use of foreign launch vehicles, due to a lack of a sufficient domestic launch capability. 
   The Cox Report recognized these facts specifically at recommendation number 24. I quote from the Report: ``In light of the impact on U.S. national security of insufficient domestic, commercial space-launch capacity and competition, the Select Committee recommends that appropriate congressional committees report legislation to encourage and stimulate further the expansion of such capacity and competition.'' 
   Mr. President, we must address this problem. 
   Last year, along with Senator MACK, I proposed, Congress passed, and the President signed into law the Commercial Space Act. Congressman DAVE WELDON provided crucial leadership in the House on this issue. 
   The Commercial Space Act helped break the federal government's monopoly on space travel by establishing a licensing framework for private sector reusable launch vehicles. The Act also provided for the conversion of excess ballistic missiles into space transportation vehicles, helping to reduce the cost of access to space. 
   Mr. President, to follow-up on the Commercial Space Act this year, I plan to introduce a number of initiatives to further help the commercial space industry in this country. The first of these initiatives is my proposal to stimulate infrastructure development by attracting private sector investment capital to our nation's launch facilities. My proposal achieves this purpose by addressing an issue of great importance to our country's commercial space transportation industry--tax exempt status for spaceport facility bonds. The legislation clarifies that spaceports are eligible for tax exempt financing to the same extent as publicly-owned airports and seaports. This bill will stimulate the growth of spaceports in this country by attracting private sector investment capital for infrastructure improvement, leading directly to the expansion of U.S. launch capacity and competition. 
   Spaceports are subdivisions of state government. They attract and promote the U.S. commercial space transportation industry by providing launch infrastructure in addition to that available at federal facilities. Spaceport authorities operate much like airport authorities by providing economic and transportation incentives to industry and surrounding communities. 
   The Spaceport Florida Authority was the first such entity, created as a subdivision of state government by Florida's Governor and State Legislature in 1989. Its purpose is to attract space related businesses by providing a supportive and coordinated environment for space related economic growth and educational development. Since its creation, Spaceport Florida estimates that it has been involved in space-related construction and investment projects worth more than $100 million. These efforts include the modification and conversion of Launch Complex 46 from a military to commercial facility. NASA's Lunar Prospector was launched from this site on January 6, 1998, the first launch conducted from a spaceport. 
   There are presently four spaceports throughout the country in Florida, California, Virginia, and Alaska, and more than ten others are under consideration. States considering the development of spaceports include Mississippi, Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Montana, Nevada, North Carolina, Louisiana, Utah, and Idaho. 
   Our Nation's commercial space transportation industry includes not only spaceports themselves and providers of launch services, but also companies which develop needed infrastructure for testing and servicing launch vehicles and their components. This industry faces increasing pressure from government sponsored or subsidized competition from Europe, China, Japan, India, Australia, and Russia. The French Government, for example, indirectly provides Arianespace with most of its infrastructure, including real and personal property. In countries with non-market economies, such as China, the government provides all real and personal property as well as labor necessary to build satellites and launch vehicles. 
   Mr. President, my proposal does not provide direct federal spending for our commercial space transportation industry. Instead, it creates the conditions necessary to stimulate private sector capital investment in infrastructure. This is an efficient means of achieving our ends. 
   Mr. President, to be state of the art in space requires state of the art financing on the ground. 
   I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join us in this important effort by co-sponsoring this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I strongly support measures that will create a financially solvent Social Security system for current and future beneficiaries. 
   I am pleased that the Senate is debating this issue, since the Trustees predict that in 2034 the current Social Security system will no longer be solvent. 
   However, the proposed lockbox in this legislation is not the way to make Social Security financially solvent for our children and our grandchildren. 
   The proposed lockbox reminds one of the 1980s--real efforts at fiscal discipline were ignored in favor for catchy slogans and irrelevant procedural changes. 
   As Congress fiddled, our budget burned. During the 1980s and early 1990s, the national debt quadrupled and the annual deficit reached almost $300 billion in 1992. 
   If we are going to create a lockbox, the Senate needs to develop one without any holes. 
   Unfortunately, the lockbox in the current proposal has several large holes. 
   It allows Social Security Surplus to be used for Social Security and Medicare Reform. 
   For instance, Social Security reform can mean different things. 
   Some of them do not mean achieving solvency of the Social Security system. 
   Social Security reform could mean creating individual retirement accounts. 
   Let's not allow the surplus out of the lockbox until we have ``reform'' that ensures solvency. 
   If I had been allowed, I would have offered an amendment that would use the Social Security surpluses to pay off the debt held by the public. 
   Only this action will truly ensure that the Social Security surplus is used to create a stronger economy. 
   Paying down the debt would lower long term interest rates. 
   Lower interest rates make it less expensive for the American public to borrow money. 
   The low cost of borrowing would encourage the American public to get loans that they could invest in new business ventures and in education. 
   The new economic activity and increased labor productivity derived from these activities will lead to increased economic growth. 
   More economic growth leads to increased FICA tax revenue which gives the Social Security Trust Fund more income and extends solvency. 
   This lockbox proposal that we are considering has numerous other holes. 
   The proposal focuses on securing the bank that will hold the Social Security surplus. 
   However, it does not secure the train that takes the money to the bank. 
   Jesse James, the famous American outlaw, used to rob banks and trains. 
   Like any good outlaw, he would steal money where it was easiest to do so. 
   If the bank was too secure to rob, he would rob the train that brought the money to the bank. 
   Congress' abuses of its emergency spending powers are similar to robbing the train that brings the Social Security surplus to bank. 
   The 1990 budget agreement specifically outlined a binding, multi-year deficit-reduction plan, along with a web of procedural controls to restrain federal spending. 
   That included rules on instances when Congress could escape those spending restraints to pay for emergency needs. 
   Unfortunately, this emergency safety valve is increasingly used to evade fiscal discipline. 
   What Washington believes to be a true ``emergency'' is decidedly different than what the average person probably thinks. 
   In the waning hours of last fall's budget negotiations, we passed a $532 billion omnibus appropriations bill. 
   Included in that bill was $21.4 billion in so-called ``emergency'' spending. 
   Without the emergency designation, Congress would have been required to offset each expenditure under the ``pay-as-you-go'' rule that is critical to maintaining fiscal discipline and balance. 
   Let's consider the numbers. 
   In 1998, the Social Security surplus was $99 billion. 
   $27 billion of that surplus was used to cover a deficit in the Federal operating budget. 
   An additional $3 billion was used to pay for emergency outlays. 
   All of a sudden, the $99 billion Social Security surplus was reduced to $69 billion. 
   In 1999, we are projecting a $127 billion Social Security surplus. 
   But we have spent another $12.6 billion for emergencies, reducing that surplus to $98 billion. 
   And even though we have not yet reached the 2000 fiscal year, we already know that emergency spending expenditures will reduce that year's Social Security surplus by $10 billion. 
   Our repetitive misuse of the emergency process continues to erode the Social Security Trust Fund. 
   Senator SNOWE of Maine and I have introduced legislation that would establish permanent safeguards to protect the surplus from questionable ``emergency'' uses. 
   Specifically, our legislation would do the following: 
   1. Create a 60-vote point of order that prevents non-emergency items from being included in emergency spending bills. 
   This will ensure that non-emergency items are subject to careful scrutiny. 
   2. Create a 60-vote point of order that will allow members to challenge the validity of items that are redesignated as ``emergencies.'' 
   3. Require a 60-vote supermajority in the Senate for the passage of any bill that contains emergency spending. 
   This will serve as a ``safety value'' to ensure that there is strong support for a bill containing emergency spending even if neither of the proceeding points of order were exercised for any reason. 
   Mr. President, as we adjust to the welcome reality of budget surpluses--after decades of annual deficits and burgeoning additions to the national debt--we must never forget how easily this valuable asset can be squandered. 
   For too long, the Federal Government treated the budget like a credit card with an unlimited spending limit. 
   If our hard-won surpluses are going to be preserved, we have to prevent the abuse of emergency spending from taking over the budgetary process. 
   Too many instances of misuse will enlarge the hard task of identifying true emergencies and injure the credibility and original purpose of ``emergency'' spending. 
   Just as private citizens are warned against falsely dialing 911, Congress should be restrained from misusing its emergency spending powers. The next door wide open to raids on the surplus will be the one that passes on more debt--and a less secure Social Security system--to our children and grandchildren. 
   Mr. President, a ``lockbox'' is a good idea. But we can make this one stronger. We can control ``emergency spending'' so there will be money to put in the lockbox for future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask that Sean McClusky, Curtis Rubinas, Dennis Tamargo, and Zachary Bennett of my staff be afforded floor privileges for the consideration of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I strongly endorse the recommendation of my colleague from Florida and hope that the distinguished Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, Senator REID, will approve the full budget request in the final bill that is sent to the White House for approval. This is a program that is important to us and to our State. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I, too, thank the distinguished Senators from New Mexico and Nevada for their support in this most important matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, along with Senators CHAFEE, MACK, MCCAIN, and MOYNIHAN, to introduce the Immigrant Children Health Improvement Act of 1999. I believe that these efforts are necessary in order to guarantee a healthy generation of children. 
   This legislation is simple. It provides states the option to provide health care coverage to legal immigrant children through Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)--in essence eliminating the arbitrary designation of August 22, 1996 as the cutoff date for benefits eligibility to children. The welfare reform legislation passed in 1996 prohibits states from covering these immigrant children during their first five years in the United States. This prohibition has serious consequences. 
   Children without health insurance do not get important care for preventable diseases. Many uninsured children are hospitalized for acute asthma attacks that could have been prevented, or suffer from permanent hearing loss from untreated ear infections. Without adequate health care, common illnesses can turn into life-long crippling disease, whereas appropriate treatment and care can help children with diseases like diabetes live relatively normal lives. A lack of adequate medical care will also hinder the social and educational development of children, as children who are sick and left untreated are less ready to learn. 
   In addition to allowing extended coverage of legal immigrant children, this initiative aims to provide Medicaid to legal immigrant pregnant women who are also barred from receiving services as a result of the 1996 welfare reform law. 
   This legislation attempts to diminish the arbitrary cutoff date used in the 1996 welfare law to determine the eligibility of legal immigrants to benefits they desperately need. Our nation was built by people who came to our shores seeking opportunity and a better life, and America has greatly benefitted from the talent, resourcefulness, determination, and work ethic of many generations of legal immigrants. Time and time again, they have restored our faith in the American Dream. We should not discriminate between these important members of our community based on nothing more than an arbitrary date. 
   As our nation enters what promises to be a dynamic century, the United States needs a prudent, fair immigration policy to ensure that avenues of refuge and opportunity remain open for those seeking freedom, justice, and a better life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to announce the introduction of the Healthy Seniors Promotion Act of 1999. 
   This bill has a clear, simple, yet profoundly important message. That message is, ``Preventive health care for the elderly works.'' 
   Regardless of your age, preventive health care improves quality of life. And despite common misperceptions, declines in health status are not inevitable with age. a healthier lifestyle, even one adopted later in life, can increase active life expectancy and decrease disability. 
   The Healthy Seniors Promotion Act of 1999 has a broad base of support from across the health care and aging communities, including the National Council on Aging, the American Geriatrics Society, the American Heart Association, the American Council of the Blind, the American College of Preventive Medicine, the National Osteoporosis Foundation, and the Partnership for Prevention. 
   This bill goes a long way toward changing the fundamental focus of the Medicare program from one that continues to focus on the treatment of illness and disability--a function which is reactionary--to one that is proactive and increases the attention paid to prevention for Medicare beneficiaries. 
   This bill has 4 main components: First, the bill establishes the healthy Seniors Promotion Program. This program will be spearheaded by an interagency workgroup within the Department of Health and Human Services, including the Health Care Financing Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Agency for Health Care Policy Research, the National Institute on Aging, and the Administration on Aging. 
   This working group, first and foremost, will bring together all the agencies within HHS that address the social, medical, and behavioral health issues affecting the elderly, and instructs them to undertake a series of actions which will serve to increase prevention-related services among the elderly. 
   A major function of this working group will be to oversee the development, monitoring, and evaluation of an applied research initiative whose main goals will be to study: (1) The effectiveness of using different types of providers of care, as well as looking at alternative delivery settings, when delivering health promotion and disease prevention services, and (2) the most effective means of educating Medicare beneficiaries and providers regarding the importance of prevention and to examine ways to improve utilization of existing and future prevention-related services. 
   Mr. President, this latter point is critical. The fact is that there are a number of prevention-related services available to Medicare beneficiaries today, including mammograms and colorectal cancer screening. But those services are seriously underutilized. 
   In a study published by Dartmouth University this spring--The Dartmouth Atlas of health Care 1999--it was found that only 28 percent of women age 65-69 receive mammograms and only 12 percent of beneficiaries were screened for colorectal cancer. 
   These are disturbing figures and they clearly demonstrate the need to find new and better ways to increase the rates of utilization of proven, demonstrated prevention services. Our bill would get us the information we need to increase rates of utilization for these services. 
   A second major portion of this bill is the coverage of additional preventive services for the Medicare program. The services that I am including focus on some of the most prominent, underlying risk factors for illness that face all Medicare beneficiaries. This bill would include screening for hypertension, counseling for tobacco cessation, screening for glaucoma, and counseling for hormone replacement therapy. Attacking these prominent risk factors would reduce Medicare beneficiaries' risk for health problems such as stroke, osteoporosis, heart disease, and blindness. 
   How did we choose these risk factors? We turned to the experts. Based on the recommendations of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, these prevention services represent the recommendations of the Task Force which is the nationally recognized body in the area of clinical prevention services. 
   But simply screening or counseling for a preventive benefit is not enough. For example, to tell a 68-year-old woman that she ought to receive hormone replacement therapy in order to reduce her risk or osteoporosis and bone fractures from falls, and then to tell her you won't pay for the treatment makes no sense. 
   Since falls and the resulting injuries are among the most serious and common medical problems suffered by the elderly--with nearly 80-90 percent of hip fractures and 60-90 percent of forearm and spine fractures among women 65 and older estimated to be osteoporosis-related--to sit idly by and not take the extra steps needed would be irresponsible. 
   That is why, Mr. President, we are going the extra mile. The third major section of our bill includes a limited, prevention-related outpatient prescription drug benefit. This benefit directly mirrors the services I just described, plus it provides coverage of outpatient prescription drugs for the preventive services added to the Medicare program as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997--e.g., mammograms, diabetes, colorectal cancer. 
   For example, if a 70-year-old smoker is counseled by his physician to stop smoking, that individual will now have access to all necessary and appropriate outpatient prescription drugs used as part of an approved tobacco cessation program. 
   By linking counseling and drug treatment, we increase the chances of success tremendously. For example, there is a 60 percent higher survival rate among individuals who quit smoking compared to smokers of all ages. And because the number of older people at risk for cancer and heart disease is higher, tobacco cessation has the potential to have a larger aggregate benefit among older persons. 
   Our bill also provides outpatient drugs for the treatment of hypertension, hormone replacement therapy, osteoporosis and heart disease, and glaucoma. It also provides coverage of drugs stemming from the preventive services added by the Balanced Budget Act. 
   While many of my colleagues would prefer to see a Medicare prescription drug benefit that is comprehensive in nature, the facts are that such a benefit is simply not affordable--$20+ billion per year--at this point in time. This bill is a down payment to current and future Medicare beneficiaries and provides them access to prescription drugs that will make a profound impact in their lives. 
   Important to note, this bill also states that if the Administration moves forward with and prevails in its efforts to sue the tobacco industry for the recovery of funds paid by Federal programs such as Medicare for tobacco-related illness, that half of those funds would be used to add additional categories of drugs to this limited benefit. 
   This bill would also instruct the Institute of Medicine to conduct a study that would, in part, create a prioritized list of prescription drugs that would be used to add new categories of drugs to the program, if and when, tobacco settlement funds become a reality in the future. 
   Finally, the bill contains two important studies that will be conducted on a routine, periodic basis. 
   The first study would require MedPAC to report to Congress every two years on how the Medicare program is, or is not, remaining competitive and modern in relationship to private sector health programs. This will  give the Congress [information it doesn't now have] the ability to assess, on an ongoing basis, how Medicare is faring in its efforts to modernize over time. 
   The second study will again be conducted by the Institute of Medicine. The Institute of Medicine, with input from new, original research on prevention and the elderly that we will be funding through the National Institute on Aging, will conduct a study every 5 years to assess the preventive benefit package, including prescription drugs. The study will determine whether or not the preventive benefit package needs to be modified or changed based on the most current science. A critical component of this study will be the manner in which it is presented to Congress. 
   To this end, I have borrowed a page from our Nation's international trade laws (The Trade Act of 1974) and developed a fast track proposal for the Institute of Medicine's recommendations. This is a deliberate effort, Mr. President, to finally get Congress out of the business of micro-managing the Medicare program and the medical and health care decisions within it. While limited to the preventive benefits package, this will offer a litmus test on a new and creative approach to future Medicare decision making. This provision would put the substantive decision making authority where it belongs, in the hands of the real experts, not the politicians and not the lobbyists who come to our offices every day. Congress, after some deliberation, would either have to accept or reject the Institute of Medicine's recommendations. A change, in my view, that would be a major, positive change in how we do business in this body. 
   A few final thoughts. There are many here in Congress who argue that at a time when Medicare faces an uncertain financial future, this is the last time to be adding benefits to a program that can ill afford the benefits it currently offers. Normally I would agree with this assertion. But the issue of prevention is different. The old adage of ``an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure'' is very relevant here. Do preventive benefits ``cost'' money in terms of making them available? Sure they do. But the return on the investment, the avoidance of the pound of cure and the related improvement in quality of life is unmistakable. 
   Along these lines, a longstanding problem facing lawmakers and advocates of prevention has been the position taken by the Congressional Budget Office, as they evaluate the budgetary impact of all legislative proposals, that only costs incurred by the Federal government over the next ten years can be considered in weighing the ``cost'' of adding new benefits. From a public health and quality of life standpoint, this premise is unacceptable. 
   Among the problems with this practice is that ``savings'' incurred by increasing the availability and utilization of preventive benefits often occur over a period of time greater than 10 years. And with the average lifespan of individuals whom are 65 being nearly 20 years--and individuals 85 and older are the fastest growing segment of the elder population--it only makes sense to look at services and benefits that improve the quality of their lives and reduce the costs to the Federal government for that 20-year lifespan and beyond. 
   In addition to increased lifespan, a ten-year budget scoring window doesn't factor into consideration the impact of such services on the private sector, such as productivity and absenteeism, for the many seniors that continue working beyond age 65. 
   The bottom line is, the most important reason to cover preventive services is to improve health. As the end of the century nears, children born now are living nearly 30 years longer than children born in 1900. While prevention services in isolation won't reduce costs, they will moderate increases in the utilization and spending on more expensive acute and chronic treatment services. 
   I want to leave you with these last thoughts, Mr. President. As Congress considers different ways to reform Medicare, several basic questions regarding preventive services and the elderly must be part of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I also ask unanimous consent that Sandi Dittig of our staff be allowed on the floor for the duration of the debate on the Department of Defense authorization bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, thank you. 
   Mr. President, I have presented the Senate with an amendment to the Defense Department authorization bill. The amendment would establish a national commission to conduct an in-depth assessment of our Government's counterintelligence programs. 
   The discussion we just had for the past 30 minutes I think underscores the necessity of the amendment I am offering. I am afraid we are about to be put into a position in which there is a rush to action. It is almost analogous to the metaphor of firing before you aim. 
   We have in the defense bill, as an example, a very comprehensive commission on safeguarding security and counterintelligence at the Department of Energy facilities. That begins on page 540 of the committee bill. Among other things, it states that the commission will determine the adequacy of those activities to ensure the security of sensitive information, processes, and activities under the jurisdiction of the Department against threats of the disclosure of such information, processes, and activities. 
   In the same bill where we are establishing a commission to review those issues of process, we are now about to adopt an amendment which countermands this commission by making a decision based on 30 minutes of floor debate for answers to provide greater security at the Department of Energy. 
   I suggest these proposals have not received the thought and consideration which their importance to the Nation deserves. I also am concerned that there is a highly partisan atmosphere being developed. 
   In today's Roll Call magazine there is an article which quotes one congressional staffer as saying,  
   We're going to milk this [the Chinese espionage issue] for all it's worth.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as members of the Congress, we need to accept our responsibility and accept the importance of counterintelligence to our national security. The country cannot afford a partisan debate. We cannot afford a piecemeal solution to what is a complex set of issues. Yet with the amendments that are being offered in both Houses, that is exactly what we are getting. 
   My amendment represents an attempt to transform a potentially destructive partisan debate into a nonpartisan, objective, dispassionate, and comprehensive review of current counterintelligence policies--not just at the Department of Energy, but across the government--a review that is long overdue. 
   Such a review would address a number of issues: What is the nature of the counterintelligence threat? The nature of the threat goes far beyond China and it goes far beyond our Department of Energy National Laboratories. For example, there are 24 countries on the Department of Energy's sensitive country list. Those countries include those that we would expect to be on such a list--China, Cuba, Iran, Iraq--but the list also includes India, Israel, and Taiwan--countries, I suspect, many Americans would be surprised to find on that list. 
   Another example of the threat relates to the missile programs in India, Pakistan, and North Korea. To what extent have their programs benefited from American technology and know-how gleaned from our Labs or other high-tech institutions? What leads us to believe that our only vulnerability is from China? 
   The threat goes beyond the traditional security parameters of guns, gates, and guards at the Department of Energy. We must include an indepth look across the government and at the new areas of security vulnerability. 
   I have a report from the General Accounting Office issued to the Congress on May 20, 1999. This was an analysis of the vulnerability of the NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, about the vulnerability of its system to security penetration. I will read a paragraph titled ``Results in Brief.''  
   We successfully penetrated several mission-critical systems, including one responsible for calculating detailed positioning data for Earth orbiting spacecraft and another that processes and distributes the scientific data received from these spacecraft. Having obtained access to these systems, we could have disrupted NASA's ongoing command and control operations and stolen, modified, or destroyed systems software and data.  
   That is just another example of our national vulnerability. 
   Who should assess this threat? I believe that the commission that should be established by this amendment would appropriately represent the interests of the American people through the administration and the legislative branches and would necessarily include persons with strategic vision and specific counterintelligence experience. I have used as the model for the 
   establishment of this commission, a commission which was established by the Congress in 1994 under the leadership of Senator WARNER, a commission which became known as the Aspin-Brown Commission, to look at our intelligence community. 
   Like that commission, this would have 17 members. The President would appoint 9, the leadership of the Senate and the House--majority and minority--would appoint a total of 8 commissioners. 
   The commission would be charged with assessing the current counterintelligence threat and the adequacy of resources being applied to that threat. Commissioners would also examine current personnel levels and training oversight--both executive and legislative--coordination among government agencies, the laws now on the books and their adequacy, the adequacy of current investigative techniques and, last but not least, attempt to determine whether vigorous counterintelligence capability can coexist with important work carried out by our National Laboratories and other important technological institutions. 
   It is important that we keep counterintelligence problems and possible solutions in some perspective. There is no doubt that counterintelligence deficiencies of the Department of Energy are longstanding. They have been excruciatingly well documented over a long period of time. We should have addressed these issues years ago. But as serious as our counterintelligence weaknesses are at the Department of Energy and at our National Laboratories, effective focus on counterintelligence issues must take into account many other agencies of the government. It must do this if we are to construct a comprehensive and effective counterintelligence response. 
   Those agencies, of course, include those belonging to the intelligence community, but also must include agencies such as NASA, whose vulnerability I have just outlined, and the Department of Commerce, which has had the responsibility for reviewing highly technical decisions on whether it is appropriate to license for export particular dual-use machinery that might serve a military purpose. 
   These reviews of agencies like NASA and the Department of Commerce have not been viewed in the past as warranting the degree of counterintelligence focus which I believe they deserve. For those who argue that we can't wait for the commission, that we must act today, I point out that the immediate counterintelligence issues facing our Department of Energy National Labs are being addressed. 
   According to Ed Curran, a highly respected 37-year FBI veteran who now heads the Department of Energy's Counterintelligence Office, 75 to 80 percent of the Tier One recommendations  resulting from a 1998 FBI evaluation of Lab counterintelligence are now in place. The remainder will be in place within 7 months. These are important steps that will go a long way in the short term to protect the work going on at the Labs. 
   In the heat of the moment, numerous recommendations are being put forward to improve counterintelligence at the Department of Energy. Some of them may be useful. Others, such as placing counterintelligence at the Labs under the FBI's control, may not be. All recommendations deserve careful, objective, and dispassionate attention. I believe a commission of the type that this amendment would establish would be the appropriate place to begin such a comprehensive reexamination. 
   I suggest that we draw a collective breath, that we step back, that we take a serious indepth look at this very complicated issue, and that we reach a consensus as Americans on the best way to proceed. I am convinced if we force solutions and force them beyond our current analysis and rush our deliberations, that we are likely to end up asking the wrong questions and coming up with the wrong answer. America will be disserved by this pattern of action and the Congress will be the culprit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Senator from Nebraska yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. One of the principal purposes of this commission starts with a recognition that our counterintelligence problems, or vulnerabilities, are not limited to Chinese penetration and are not limited to Department of Energy Laboratories. In fact, I have quoted from a study by the General Accounting Office that is less than 10 days old about a major potential penetration in NASA of its computer systems. 
   The question: ``Would the Senator agree that whatever form Congress took to look at this issue, in addition to being rational, prudent, thoughtful, that it should also be comprehensive, in terms of the agencies of the Federal Government and the potential sources of efforts to penetrate those agencies?'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, will the Senator from Nebraska yield for another question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The Senator's last point about trade-offs highlights the fact that we risk making our nation less secure if we are not careful with our solutions. We could potentially be lured into doing what Hitler did in the 1930s and 1940s; that is, prevent intelligent and capable people from participating in our nation's government and society on the basis of their ethnicity. So we do not want, as some have suggested, ethnic standards determining who will have an opportunity to access our laboratories. In my judgement, security should be based on the individual who is involved, not on that individual's membership in a larger ethnic group. The danger of denying our nation a pool of talent due to ethnic stereotyping illustrates the complexity of this issue. 
   Would the Senator agree also that in order to sort through all of those complexities---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Since I don't think Senator SHELBY has arrived---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent to complete my question and give Senator KERREY 2 minutes to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-13-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Does the Senator agree that in order to sort through those complexities, we would need a group of Americans who can look at this both from a strategic perspective as well as from the technical competencies of what is required to do appropriate counterintelligence protective processes and methods? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-14-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate considers H.R. 1555 I be recognized to offer an amendment relative to counterintelligence, and I further ask consent that if this agreement is agreed to that amendment 447 be withdrawn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-15-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am extremely proud to introduce the ``Worksite Child Care Development Act of 1999'' with Senators HUTCHISON, KOHL, and JEFFORDS. This measure will make child care more accessible and affordable to the many millions of Americans who find it not only important, but necessary, to work. 
   This legislation would grant tax credits to employers who assist their employees with child care expenses by providing: 
   A one-time 50 percent tax credit not to exceed $100,000 for startup expenses, including expansion and renovations of an employer-sponsored child care facility; 
   A 50 percent tax credit for employers not to exceed $25,000 annually for the operating costs to maintain a child care facility; and 
   A 50 percent tax credit yearly not to exceed $50,000 for this employers who provide payments or reimbursements for their employees' child care costs. 
   Why is this legislation important? 
   First, the workplace has changed over the years. In 1947, just over one-quarter of all mothers will children between 6 and 17 years of age were in the labor force. By 1996, their labor force participation rate had tripled. 
   Indeed, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that 65 percent of all women with children under 18 years of age are now working and that the growth in the number of working women will continue into the next century. 
   Second, child care is one of the most pressing social issues of the day. It impacts every family, including the poor, the working poor, middle class families, and stay-at-home parents. 
   Last June, I hosted a Florida statewide summit on child care where over 500 residents of my State shared with me their concerns and frustration on child care issues. 
   They told me that quality child care, when available, is often not affordable. 
   Those who qualify told me there are often long waiting lists for subsidized child care. 
   They told me that working parents struggle to find ways to cope with the often conflicting time demands of both work and child care. 
   They told me that their school-age children are at risk because before and after-school supervised care programs are not readily available. 
   Mr. President, quality child care should be a concern to all Americans. The care and nurturing that children receive early in life has a profound influence on their future--and their future is our future. 
   In the 21st century, women will comprise more than 60 percent of all new entrants into the labor market. A large proportion of these women are expected to be mothers of children under the age of 6. 
   The implications for employers are clear. They understand that our Nation's work force is changing rapidly and that those employers who can help their employees with child care will have a competitive advantage. In Florida, for instance, Ryder System's Kids' Corner in Miami has enrolled approximately 100 children in a top-notch day care program. 
   I commend the many corporations in Florida and across the nation that have taken the important step of providing child care for its employees. Many smaller businesses would like to join them, but do not have the resources to offer child care to employees. Our legislation would help to lower the obstacle to on-site child care. 
   Mr. President, we believe that this legislation will assist businesses in providing attractive, cost-effective tools for recruiting and retaining employees in a tight labor market. 
   We believe that encouraging businesses to help employees care for children will make it easier for parents to be more involved in their children's education. 
   Most of all, Mr. President, we believe that this bill is good for employers and families and will go far in addressing the issue of child care for working families of America. I urge all of my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to salute a special milestone involving one of America's premier business and civic leaders, Mr. Anthony ``Tony'' Burns of Miami, Florida. 
   A quarter-century ago, Tony Burns began his career with Ryder System, Inc. in 1974, as the Director of Planning and Treasurer. Under his guidance, Ryder expanded to become the largest truck leasing and rental company in the world, and the largest public transit management company in the United States. Now serving as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Tony celebrates his 25th anniversary with the firm on June 3, 1999. 
   While elevating Ryder's corporate status, Tony has helped lead the effort to make the workplace more family  friendly. He has implemented programs such as Kids' Corner, the Diversity Council, and a flextime policy to allow parents greater schedule flexibility. 
   In addition, Tony Burns personifies community involvement, including service to the Boy Scouts of America. 
   Mr. President, as we approach a new millennium and look back on the all-but-completed Twentieth Century, we are reminded of the importance of the dedicated people who strive to improve both their workplace and their community. I commend Tony Burns for his business acumen, his leadership, and his commitment to his company and the south Florida community. As he prepares to celebrate his 25th anniversary with Ryder, I ask you to join me and his many friends in extending congratulations and best wishes.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this resolution designates the first Sunday of June as National Child's Day. 
   Our children are our future. Over 5 million children, however, go hungry at some point each month. There has been a 60 percent increase in the number of children needing foster care in the last ten years. Many children today face crises of grave proportions, especially as they enter their adolescent years. 
   The designation of National Child's Day helps us to focus on our children's needs and recognize their accomplishments. It encourages families to spend more quality time together and highlights the special importance of the child in the family unit. 
   In these crucial times, it is important that we show our support for the youth of America. It is our hope that this simple resolution will foster family togetherness and ensure that our  children receive the attention they need and deserve. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in designating the first Sunday in June as National Child's Day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I do not have an objection, but I would like to make an inquiry. At some point, I would like to be in a position to do what Senator ALLARD has done, which is to introduce an amendment and then lay it aside for the appropriate consideration at its due time. Would it be appropriate, after we have taken action on the unanimous consent, or as part of the unanimous consent, that I would be given an opportunity to introduce an amendment and then lay it aside? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as we prepare for next week's start of the 1999 Hurricane Season, I am pleased to join my colleague, Senator MACK, in introducing legislation that will help protect Florida from economic devastation in the event of a catastrophic disaster. 
   Our legislation would amend Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code to grant tax-exempt status to state chartered, not-for-profit insurers serving markets in which commercial insurance is not available. In our state, this legislation will primarily assist the Florida Windstorm Underwriting Association (FWUA) and the Florida Residential Property and Casualty Joint Underwriting Association (JUA). 
   The Florida Windstorm Association was created in 1970. Twenty-two years later, in 1992, the legislature authorized the Joint Underwriting Association. These organizations operate as residual market mechanisms. They provide residential property and casualty insurance coverage for those residents who need, but are unable to procure through the voluntary market. 
   The JUA was created in direct response to $16 billion in covered losses during Hurricane Andrew. The destructive force of Andrew rendered a number of property insurance companies insolvent. Other firms recovered from the catastrophe by withdrawing from Florida markets. 
   During those fortunate years when we are not impacted by major hurricanes or other natural catastrophes, the FWUA and JUA take in more premiums that are paid out in claims and expenses. Florida law prevents those funds from being distributed so that needed reserves will accumulate in preparation for inevitable disasters. 
   Unfortunately, the Internal Revenue Service penalizes Florida for this responsible, forward thinking practice. It requires that 35% of those funds be sent to Washington as federal income taxes rather than used to fund reserves. Designating state chartered, non profit insurers as tax-exempt will help Florida accumulate the necessary reserves to pay claims brought on by a catastrophe. 
   State law also authorizes the FWUA and the JUA to assess property insurance policyholders for losses generated by natural disasters. Tax exemptions should reduce the frequency and severity of assessments levied against individual policyholders, because it would make more funds available to cover losses which otherwise would be paid for by higher assessments on policyholders. 
   Mr. President, even seven years later, Hurricane Andrew is still a nightmarish memory for Floridians. The 1999 Hurricane season will begin on June 1, 1999. The National Weather Service expects this hurricane season--which begins next Tuesday, to be another active storm season. It is imperative that the federal government avoids the comfortable habit of ignoring lessons presented by Andrew and other recent catastrophes. 
   This legislation has bipartisan support in the state's Congressional delegation. It is backed by our state governor, our insurance Commissioner, our state Senate President and House Speaker. 
   Also, Mr. President, the Joint Committee on Taxation has ruled that this legislation will have a negligible effect on the federal budget. 
   Our legislation is extremely important to homeowners and businesses throughout Florida, all whom are subject to assessment if reserves are not sufficient to pay claims in the event of a catastrophe. Florida remains sensitive to the perils of nature. Enactment of this legislation will permit our state to prepare for the next Hurricane Andrew while alleviating some of the economic hardship exacted on Florida property owners. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, first, I ask unanimous consent that Colton Campbell be afforded floor privileges during the duration of my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will reluctantly support this legislation because it contains important issues. It contains the funding for our troops in the Balkans. It contains the funds to meet our humanitarian responsibilities to our neighbors in Central America and the Caribbean. It also retains a provision--which I know the Presiding Officer has strongly supported--to clearly state that the funds the States secured through their tobacco settlements will be funds to be managed, administered, and prioritized at the State level. 
   Mr. President, I share many of the concerns of my colleague from Virginia. I share those concerns because what we are doing is to chip away at the financial security of 38 million Americans--38 million Americans who receive Social Security income. Forty percent of those 38 million Americans would have fallen below the poverty line but for Social Security. 
   Why is this relevant to this debate? It is relevant because we are on the verge of draining an additional $12 billion from the Social Security fund through this legislation. We had three choices when we started this debate. One choice was to do the tough thing, to reprioritize our spending, to say that if it is important that we spend money on our humanitarian needs in  Central America and the Caribbean, then let us reduce spending somewhere else. 
   I am pleased to say that for that account we in fact have done so. 
   We had another choice, which was to say let's raise revenue. If we can't find an area where we think it is appropriate to reduce spending, then let's be prepared to pay for this emergency. 
   Third, we could say let's use the accumulated surplus that we have, which today is a 100-percent surplus generated by the Social Security trust fund. As to the $12 billion in this legislation, we have elected the third course of action. 
   Mr. President, this is not the first time we have done so. In fact, it is not the first time in the last 8 months that we have done so. 
   Last October, in the waning hours of the budget negotiations, Congress passed a $532 billion omnibus appropriations bill. 
   Tucked into that bill was $21.4 billion in so-called emergency spending. 
   The effect of that designation then--as it is today--was to relieve Congress of the necessity of finding some other reprioritized spending to eliminate in order to pay for this emergency. 
   But because of the emergency designation, the $21.4 billion in October could be approved without offsets, and because of the emergency designation today, we will approve an additional $12 billion of expenditure without offsets. 
   Let's look at the numbers. 
   In 1998, Social Security was $99 billion. The first use of that money was to offset $27 billion in deficit in the rest of the Federal budget. An additional $3 billion was used to pay 
   for emergency outlays, leaving us with a total surplus not of $99 billion but of $69 billion. 
   This year, 1999, we are projecting a $127 billion surplus. 
   Again, we have used $3 billion to offset deficits elsewhere in the budget, $13 billion for emergency outlays, and we are about to spend another $14.6 billion for emergencies, reducing our surplus from $127 billion down to $96 billion. And for the year 2000, we have already carried forward some of the emergency spending from 1999. 
   Again, we will be reducing the Social Security surplus by $10 billion. This is from where we are paying for these emergencies. 
   Mr. President, the repetitive misuse of the emergency process is continuing to erode the Social Security trust fund. This misuse is done in a manner that precludes most Members of Congress from any meaningful role in what has traditionally been accepted as emergencies. We have been denied the opportunity to participate in a determination as to whether the proposed emergency expenditure met the standards of being sudden, urgent and unforeseen needs, which is the standard that has traditionally been used for emergencies. 
   The same Congress that claimed to be saving the surplus for Social Security--committed to a ``lockbox'' for Social Security--is again actively participating in raids on the Social Security trust fund through the back door. 
   Willie Sutton once was asked, ``Why do you rob banks?'' His answer: ``That's where the money is.'' 
   We may manufacture the strongest vault to protect the Social Security surplus from Willie Sutton. But if we let Jesse James continue to steal the money on the train before it gets to the bank, we will have the same result. The money will not be there for our and future generations of Social Security beneficiaries. 
   Social Security is a federally mandated program. We have a legal obligation to our children and grandchildren to secure the surplus for its intended purpose--Social Security. We must assure that the budget surplus is not squandered on questionable emergency items in the future. 
   Mr. President, with your support and that of Senator SNOWE of Maine, we have introduced legislation which has as its objective to establish permanent safeguards that will assure that nonemergency items are subject to careful scrutiny and not inserted into emergency spending bills to circumvent the normal legislative process. 
   I urge our colleagues' support for this legislation. 
   Mr. President, as we adjust to the welcome reality of budget surpluses--after decades of annual deficits and burgeoning additions to the national debt--we must never forget how easily this valuable asset can be squandered. 
   For too long, the Federal Government treated the budget like a credit card with an unlimited spending limit. 
   Private citizens are warned against falsely dialing 911. Congress should exercise the same restraint in using its emergency authority. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. COCHRAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to offer a solemn tribute to an educator and clergyman whose life spanned most of this great century: the Right Reverend Marion Bowman of Florida. 
   Father Marion Bowman passed away last week, and was buried on Friday, May 14, 1999, at the St. Leo Abbey Cemetery. As coach, teacher and president, Father Bowman was a guiding force at St. Leo College in St. Leo, FL. He is survived by a large and loving family, and a legion of alumni and friends of St. Leo College. 
   Born on June 30, 1905, in Lebanon, KY, he made his first profession of vows twenty years later, and was ordained as a priest in 1931. His association with St. Leo began as a young man; he graduated from St. Leo College Prep School in 1923. 
   Father Bowman served as the third abbot of St. Leo Abbey, from 1954-69. On April 27, 1970, Father Bowman was elected president of St. Leo College and served on the institution's Board of Trustees as well. 
   A versatile man, Father Bowman taught math, physics and chemistry at the prep school, and for four years was St. Leo's sole coach, heading the football, baseball, basketball and track teams. He also served as athletic director, and played a key role in converting St. Leo from a prep school to a college. 
   In 1971, St. Leo College bestowed an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree on Father Bowman.  
   Mr. President, as we approach a new millennium and look back on the all-but-completed Twentieth Century, we are reminded of the importance of the dedicated people who impart knowledge, teach values, coach athletes and manage our schools. Father Marion Bowman--teacher, cleric and friend of St. Leo College--did all those things and many more, and we salute his dedication and his multiple contributions.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague, Senator MACK, in the introduction of the REIT Modernization Act, legislation that would modernize the tax rules that apply to real estate investment trusts (``REITs''). 
   REITs were created in 1960 to give small investors the ability to invest in income producing real estate. But it was not until the early part of this decade that REITs emerged as a significant factor in real estate finance. Their repid growth then contributed in a major way to the development of real estate markets. The real estate industry is experiencing change today as owners seek to maximize returns by taking greater advantage of their employee expertise and tenant base. This bill will better enable REITS to expand their services to tenants and customers. 
   The Administration's Fiscal Year 2000 budget includes a proposal to change the rules governing REITs. The legislation that we are introducing today is largely based on that proposal. It would permit REITs to establish taxable subsidiaries to offer services that a REIT cannot offer directly to tenants and third parties. Stringent rules are included to ensure that the subsidiary would be fully subject to taxation. Current rules designed to ensure that REIT income is primarily earned from real estate activities would continue to apply. The bill also modifies the tratment of health care facilities to ensure that patients' lives are not disrupted in the event of an expired lease, and restores the 90% distribution rule that had previously applied to REITs. 
   REITs play a positive role in the real estate economy that has helped to stabilize property values and provide liquidity to the market. As long as the basic limitations on REIT activities are preserved, those tax rules which impose restraints on REIT activities must be modified. In my own state of Florida, REITs have invested more than $13 billion in the Florida economy, and are an important source of investment capital that has reinvigorated real estate markets. 
   I want to thank Senator  MACK  for his leadership on this issue and I welcome the bipartisan support this measure has received from members of the Senate Finance Committee, along with others, who have joined as cosponsors of the bill. I look forward to working with them in the months ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with my good friend and colleague, Senator MACK to introduce the Affordable Housing Opportunity Act of 1999. This legislation would raise the annual limit on state authority to allocate low-income housing tax credits from $1.25 to $1.75 per capita, and to index the cap to inflation. 
   Since its creation in the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the low income housing tax credit program has been a tremendous success that has generated nearly a million units of housing for low and moderate income families. In my home state of Florida the tax credit has produced over 52,000 affordable rental units, valued at over $2.2 billion, including 3,300 apartments in 1997. 
   This housing tax credit is a valuable incentive for developers to build and rehabilitate low-income housing. It encourages the construction and renovation of low income housing by reducing the tax liability placed on developers of affordable homes. The credit is based on the costs of development as well as the percentage of units devoted to low-income families. 
   The low income housing tax credit not only helps developers but also benefits families. Those families that get up and go to work every day to earn their rent and mortgage payments, the low income housing tax credit provides families with an important stake in maintaining self-sufficiency. By supporting this credit we make the American dream more available to all Americans. 
   This credit has succeeded as a catalyst in bringing new sources of funding to low income housing development. This is particularly important at a time when decreasing appropriations for federally-assisted housing and the elimination of other tax incentives for rental housing production have only grown. While this success is gratifying, we should not take for granted the continued growth of this program. 
   Under the current formula used to fund this program, each state is located $1.25 multiplied by the State's population. Unlike other provisions of the Tax Code, this formula has not been adjusted since the credit was created in 1986. During the same period, inflation has eroded the credit's purchasing power by nearly 45 percent, as measured by the Consumer Price Index. This cap is strangling state capacity to meet the pressing low income housing needs. 
   By increasing the cap on this credit to $1.75, we will free the 12 year cap on housing credit from it current limitations, as requested by our Nation's governors, and we will liberate states' capacity to help millions of Americans who still have no decent, safe, affordable place to live. 
   A brief look at the history of the housing credit provides ample evidence of why we need our legislation. Nationwide, demand for housing credits outstrips supply by a ratio of three to one. In 1998, states received applications requesting more than 1.2 billion in housing credits--far surpassing the $365 million in the credit authority available to allocate that year. This trend coupled with the fact that every year nearly 100,000 low cost apartments are demolished, abandoned, or converted to market rate use makes clear the need for this legislation. Increasing the cap as I propose would allow states to finance approximately 27,000 more critically needed low income apartments each year using the housing credit. 
   In the last Congress, sixty seven Senators cosponsored this legislation, including nearly two-thirds of the Finance Committee, raising the low income housing tax credit to $1.75 and indexing it for inflation. Nearly 70 percent of the House Ways and Means Committee and a total of 299 House Members cosponsored legislation proposing the same increase. 
   That indicates just how much support this program has in the Congress. Also, the Administration, the nation's governors and mayors, other state and local government groups, and the affordable housing community strongly support this increase. I am confident with all this support that this measure will finally pass this year. I urge all my colleagues to embrace this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues, Senators MACK, CLELAND, LINCOLN, and ROBB, to discuss an issue of great importance to the people of Florida and the nation: the availability of adequate water supplies. During the last decade, many states have experienced unprecedented population growth. For example, Florida's population increased by 15 percent, or almost 2 million people, over the last 8 years. We have directed resources towards improvements in our highway infrastructure to accommodate increased use. However, an area that has not received adequate attention but has the potential to negatively impact human health and the environment as well as limit economic growth is the conservation and development of adequate water supplies. 
   A number of eastern states, including Florida, are now experiencing water supply problems similar to those in the arid West. We must act now to prevent salt water intrusion into our aquifers, additional loss of wetlands, and curbs on economic development due to inadequate water supplies. As we prepare for the 21st century, demand for water for domestic, industrial, and agricultural uses will continue to increase. 
   In just one of Florida's regional water management districts, the Governing Board has committed $10 million per year since 1994 to providing financial assistance for local alternative water source projects such as conservation, wastewater reclamation, stormwater reuse, and desalination. When fully implemented, the 23 currently active or completed projects will provide more than 150 million gallons of water per day to supply existing and future needs. These projects will also reduce groundwater withdrawals, rehydrate stressed lakes and wetlands, increase ground water recharge, enhanced wildlife habitat, and improve flood control. 
   We are today introducing legislation to address this critical public health, environmental, and economic issue. The ``Alternative Water Sources Act of 1999'' establishes a federal grant program for eastern states that is similar to a program already operated by the Bureau of Reclamation for western states. The program will provide federal matching funds for the design and construction of water reclamation, reuse, and conservation projects. The bill authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to make grants to agencies with responsibility for water resource development, for the purpose of maximizing available water supplies while protecting the environment. Under this program, water supply agencies will submit grant proposals to EPA. The proposed projects must be part of a long range water resource management plan. If approved, the federal government would provide half the cost of the project. This legislation authorizes $75 million per year over the next five years to fund alternative water source projects. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr, President, today I am delighted to have the opportunity to salute the 1999 honorees of the Dr. Nan S. Hutchison Broward Senior Hall of Fame Award. These outstanding volunteers have contributed time, talents and love toward benefitting the residents of Broward County. 
   On May 6, 1999, eleven new members selected for this prestigious honor will be at ceremonies celebrating their selection, and their names will be added to a commemorative plaque housed in the Broward County Government Building. 
   This year's honorees are: Panchitta Chishom, Estelle Ernstoff, Commissioner Sam Goldsmith, Max Klein, Bill Kling, Ella Anderson Lawrence, Madolyn Markham, Hyman Moskowitz, Hattie Robinson, Marvin Simon and John Washburn. 
   Panchitta Chishom has dedicated her life to serving the community as a teacher for 38 years in the Broward County School system and as a volunteer. She devotes her wisdom, generosity and tireless efforts to various groups including the Northwest Federated Woman's Club, Broward General Medical Center and the NAACP. 
   Estelle Ernstoff has a passion for volunteer work that has enriched the lives of those in her community. Among the work she has done for various causes, she has faithfully arranged bi-annual blood drives while supporting the Cancer Association and the Memorial Manor Nursing Home Auxiliary. Her devotion to improving the lives of others has made her a role model for her community. 
   Commissioner Sam Goldsmith has patiently and steadfastly tended to the needs and concerns of the citizens of Coconut Creek. Besides serving as a former mayor and current city commissioner, Sam has devoted additional precious time to volunteer for several organizations including the Florida Council of Aging, American Legion Post #170 and Board of Trustees of Northwest Regional Hospital. 
   Max Klein has been a determined and energetic activist for the citizens of Broward County, and in particular, the City of Lauderhill. His participation in journalism and the political process has brought attention to the issues and concerns of elderly. His compassion extends to all residents, young and old, of Broward County. 
   Bill Kling has spent his adult life campaigning for the rights and benefits of war veterans. He was instrumental in establishing the Veterans Administration outpatient clinic in Oakland Park. His compassion and perseverance have served the community in numerous ways. 
   Ella Anderson Lawrence has dedicated her life to others through her  generous community service. From distributing lap robes to local nursing homes to preparing and serving meals for her church, Bethlehem Lutheran, she has contributed her time, energy and kindness to her entire neighborhood and its residents. 
   Madolyn Markham has made a pledge over many years and across various interests to help all those in need in her community. As President and Director of C. Robert Markham Foundation, she has supported numerous causes, including The Twelve Step House, United Way and Kids in Distress. Her charity and grace have touched the lives of many people, young and old. 
   Hyman Moskowitz has a strong sense of community that is evident through his many accomplishments and volunteer work. His efforts have led to the establishment of the Northwest Focal Point Senior Center and a monthly award honoring ``Students of the Month'' by the Margate City Commission. His dedication to volunteering enriches the lives of everyone around him. 
   Hattie Robinson shows her compassion for humanity through her generous good deeds to her church, the 15th Street Baptist Church of Christ, and throughout her neighborhood. She has fed the hungry, distributed clothing to the needy and been an active member of the Broward County Foster Grandparent Program. Her kindness and charity are not limited by boundaries, but instead touch the lives of all whom she meets. 
   Marvin Simon has been a dedicated and enthusiastic supporter of Broward County's senior population. His perseverance resulted in the establishment of an Emergency Medical Services base on the Pine Island Ridge Condominium grounds. His devotion extends past his neighbors through his active participation in various organizations including the Gilda's Club and the Jewish War Veterans, Post 730. 
   John Washburn has a gift of giving that has enhanced the lives of all those who have been touched by his generosity. He volunteers for numerous organizations including the Cooperative Feeding Program, Manna Share a Meal program and Optimist Club of West Broward/Lauderhill. His commitment to the community has benefitted all, especially the needy and the sick, the young and the elderly. 
   Florida and Broward County are fortunate to have these inspiring senior citizens who have given so much to their communities. I congratulate them today and wish for them many more productive and healthy years.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today I rise to offer a tribute to Dr. Patricia L. Clements for her years of work on behalf of historical preservation in Florida. 
   As we prepare for a new millennium, with its promise of inventions and technical advances beyond our comprehension, we are reminded of the importance of preserving and understanding our past. 
   Toward that end, Dr. Clements has helped lead the historical preservation effort in Florida, particularly in preserving and intrepreting women's history. 
   Women helped build and lead Florida, and their roles have been preserved in myriad ways by Dr. Clements and her colleagues. 
   She has been a pioneer in producing audio biographies of prominent Florida women. Dr. Clements is the founder of the Inaugural Gown Collection, housed at the Museum of Florida History, including textiles dating to 1901, nearly a century ago. 
   Meanwhile, she has collected more than 100 artifacts for the First Families exhibit at the Museum of Florida History. Strong public interest prompted the museum to extend the exhibit by three months. 
   Florida has many ways of recognizing the contributions of outstanding women, one of which is through the Florida Women's Hall of Fame. Dr. Clements is the audiobiographer of women inducted into this elite group, and is a member of the Florida Women's Hall of Fame selection committee. 
   Mr. President, we live in a fast-paced world, and can expect mobility and the pace of the flow of information to increase in the next century. As we embrace the future, we salute those who preserve the past and help us to understand our heritage.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, over the last several years--according to our colleague from North Carolina, over the last 40 years--we have heard multiple warnings about the Y2K computer 
   problem. We have heard how this problem will overwhelm our Nation's transportation networks, financial institutions, business sectors, and State and local communities. 
   I bring to the attention of the Senate this afternoon another institution that could be overwhelmed by the rush to prepare for the new millennium, and that institution is one of our direct responsibilities--the Federal courts. 
   Just over a month ago, the Judicial Conference of the United States--the principal policymaking body for the Federal courts, chaired by the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court--asked Congress to create nearly 70 new permanent and temporary judgeships: 11 on the appellate level and 58 in Federal district courts. 
   This was an unusually large request by the Judicial Conference. It was also an urgent request. 
   The Judicial Conference has made biennial pleas for help from Congress. Every 2 years, the Conference has recommended additional judgeships to be created in order to maintain currency with the capacity of the judicial system of the Federal Government of the United States with the caseload that system was being asked to accommodate. 
   I am saddened to have to state and to indicate to my colleagues and the American people that Congress has not created so much as one new Federal judgeship since December of 1990--almost 9 years ago. 
   Since December of 1990, appellate filings have increased by more than 30 percent. District court filings have grown by more than 20 percent. But this increase is not equally distributed across the Nation. 
   In my home State of Florida, we have seen a worse--a much worse--situation. The Middle and Southern Districts of Florida have seen case filings increase by over 60 percent in the last 9 years without one additional Federal judge being added to the Middle or Southern Districts. 
   What has been the consequence of this failure of Congress to respond to the legitimate request of the Federal judiciary for additional resources to mediate these additional case 
   demands? This has resulted in over 1,100 criminal defendants having cases currently pending in the Middle District of Florida. On the civil side, more than 5,900 cases have yet to receive final disposition. 
   The reasons for this need are many. But one stands out in the context of the legislation we are now debating, the legislation to turn responsibility for Y2K litigation to the Federal courts; and that is, the increasing willingness of Congress to federalize what were formerly, and I believe properly, State civil and criminal legal issues. 
   In other forums we have addressed the federalization of criminal statutes, and thus I will not dwell on that subject today. But just suffice it to say this one fact: It has been now some 135 years since the end of the Civil War. Of all of the Federal criminal statutes enacted since the end of the Civil War, 30 percent of them have been enacted since 1980, or in the last 19 years. So we are in an era in which there has been a rush to create new Federal criminal statutes. 
   While we can and should debate the merits of this trend, what cannot be debated is the fact that this has dramatically increased the burdens on the Federal courts and their ability to dispense justice. This trend is no less prevalent on the civil side as it is on the criminal side. 
   In the last Congress, we considered major legal overhauls that would have preempted State tort and property laws. 
   In 1998, Chief Justice Rehnquist stated:  
   [S]hould Congress consider expanding the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary, it should do so cautiously and only after it has considered all the alternatives and the incremental impact the increase will have on both the need for additional judicial resources and the traditional role of the federal judiciary.  
   Unfortunately, the legislation we are considering today runs counter to that sage advice. The very nature of the Y2K problem means that multiple  plaintiffs will have similar claims against common defendants--a situation ripe for a profusion of class action lawsuits. 
   By giving the Federal judiciary original jurisdiction over Y2K class actions, Congress will sentence Federal courts to overburdened caseloads far beyond the crisis that we currently face. 
   I want to make it clear that I recognize the seriousness of the Y2K problem and the need to address some of the related legal issues. Senators BENNETT and DODD deserve tremendous credit for their committee's assessment of how the U.S. Government is preparing for the Y2K problem. 
   I commend Senator MCCAIN for his forward-thinking focus on the legal ramifications of the millennium bug. But I have serious reservations about making Federal courts a clearinghouse for Y2K lawsuits of any kind. Proponents of this measure have argued that it is necessary to federalize the Y2K litigation in order to establish national uniformity in this area of the law. 
   This view runs counter to basic tenets of federalism. According to the National Governors' Association, 39 States currently have legislation enacted or pending that could resolve this issue at the State level. As such, the burden of proof falls on the proponents of this legislation to show why the Federal Government, contrary to two centuries of tradition of State responsibility for civil litigation, is in the best position to deal with this issue. Such an action of federalization amounts to a theft of what has traditionally been the State responsibility for these types of cases. As such, I will oppose cloture on this legislation. 
   Mr. President, thus far, I know of no plan whatsoever to address the massive new workload that legislative action such as the federalization of Y2K cases could impose on the Federal judiciary, particularly the U.S. district courts. 
   I urge my colleagues to consider not only the potential legal cases that will be generated by the Y2K challenge, but also to thoughtfully consider where those cases should best be heard. I believe the presumption should be that those cases should be heard where most of our civil litigation is heard, which is in State courts. I do not believe that the proponents of this change have effectively advocated for the necessity of changing that basic tradition in American jurisprudence. 
   We must be vigilant, as Members of Congress, to avoid legislative action that will increase the workload on our Federal courts without a commensurate increase in judicial resources. If we fail to do so, the end result will be justice delayed and justice denied. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Bryan Giddings, Kelly Maher, Leesa Washington, Suzanne Matwyshen, and Jordan Coyle be granted floor privileges for the duration of my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would require country of origin labeling of perishable agricultural commodities imported into the United States. I offer the ``Imported Produce Labeling Act'' to ensure that Americans know the origin of every orange, banana, tomato, cucumber, and green pepper on display in the grocery store. 
   For two decades, Floridians shopping at their local grocery stores have been able to make educated choices about the food products they purchase for their families. In 1979, in my first year as Governor, I proudly signed legislation to make country of origin labels commonplace in produce sections all over Florida. This labeling requirement has proven to be neither complicated nor burdensome for Florida's farmers or retailers. 
   Country of origin labeling is not new to the American marketplace. For decades, ``Made In'' labels have been as visible as price tags on clothes, toys, television sets, watches, and many other products. It makes little sense that such labels are nowhere to be found in the produce section of grocery stores in the vast majority of states. 
   The current lack of identifying information on produce means that Americans who wish to heed government health warnings about foreign products or who have justifiable concerns about other nations' labor, environmental, and agricultural standards are powerless to choose other perishables. In fact, according to nationwide surveys, between 74 and 83 percent of consumers favor mandatory country of origin labeling for fresh produce. 
   This is a low-cost, common sense method of informing consumers, as retailers will simply be asked to provide this information by means of a label, stamp, or placard. Implementation of this practice in Florida resulted in an estimated cost of only $10 monthly per grocery store, a remarkably small price to pay to provide American consumers with the information they need to make informed produce purchases. 
   In addition, a study by the U.S. Department of Agriculture found that twenty-six of our key trading partners require country of origin labeling for fresh fruits and vegetables. By adopting this amendment, our law will become more consistent with the laws of our global trading partners. 
   Consumers have the right to know basic information about the fruits and vegetables that they bring home to their families. Congress can take a major step toward achieving this simple goal by passing the ``Imported Produce Labeling Act,'' thereby restoring American shoppers' ability to make an informed decision. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have asked recognition this afternoon to commend the firefighters providing relief to the State of Florida and its citizens, which is once again besieged by fire due to excessive drought conditions. This, unfortunately, is not the first occasion on which I have risen to speak about forest fires in Florida. 
   The natural conditions in the State have been altered to the point where fires, normally a natural and essential part of the pine forests of this region, have burned uncontrollably, causing damage to local communities, private homes, and to the Florida forestry industry. 
   Last year, Florida sustained almost $300 million in private fire-related damage, and State and local governments spent over $100 million in responding to wild fires. Approximately 500,000 acres of forest were completely destroyed in 1998. And in 1999, fires in Florida have again commenced a process with severe consequences. As of today, 2,542 fires have burned more than 58,000 acres; 18 divisional forestry firefighters have been injured; 59 structures have been destroyed, and another 81 were damaged by fire. 
   Florida is not alone. Similar fires are occurring in Georgia, North Carolina, Arizona and New Mexico. My heart goes out to the unfortunate victims of these fires, as well as to the firefighters and volunteers who are working bravely to save families, homes and communities. As we speak, Americans from Alabama, Delaware, and Georgia, are fighting side by side with Floridians to prevent these fires in my State from endangering more lives, homes, and property. National Guardsmen, meteorologists, insurance specialist, and volunteers have converged in Florida to assist in response and recovery. These individuals' bravery and willingness to support people who they never met reaffirms our belief in the selflessness and vitality of the human spirit. 
   Mr. President, they say that a picture speaks a thousand words. I would like to draw your attention to the front page of the St. Petersburg Times of Tuesday, April 20, which has this dramatic picture of the Everglades afire. The Everglades, home to many endangered species, and the water source for millions of Floridians, has for the last several days been besieged by fire. 
   Now, fire is a natural phenomenon in the Everglades. It serves an important part in maintaining the ecosystem. However, human manipulation of this system has decreased water levels, making the Everglades more susceptible to fire and more ravaging consequences of that fire. This condition mirrors circumstances throughout Florida and many other States where efforts to prevent fires have allowed a large quantity of undergrowth to accumulate in our forestry lands. 
   As many of you know, the long-leaf pine ecosystem, which is prevalent in Florida and other southeastern States, depends heavily on the role of natural fire to rejuvenate the ecosystem. Prescribed burning mimics naturally occurring lightening fires, clears excess underbrush, which can rob lower plants of sunlight. This frequent, low-intensity fire retains the rich flora of the healthy long-leaf pine ecosystem. Without these frequent fires, underbrush robs lower plants, which in drought condition creates a ready fuel source for a fire. It is this situation that has led to severe wildfires in Florida. 
   Mr. President, today, I will be introducing legislation that is aimed at the prevention of the recurrence in the future and to assure that this tragedy does not bring a second tragedy--a permanent loss of our forest lands in Florida and in the southeast. I am introducing the Forestry Initiative to Restore the Environment Act of 1999 to mitigate the damages and prevent fire disasters in the future. 
   What exactly does mitigation of losses mean for us today? Let me focus on my State of Florida. There are currently 16 million acres of forested lands, making up 47 percent of the State's total land area. The majority of this land--over 7 million acres--is owned by private farmers and individual corporate landowners. The State of Florida is continuing to grow at an explosive pace. It already has over 15 million people, and in 25 years it is projected to have over 20 million people. This rapid growth is creating pressure on land values throughout Florida and creating a circumstance in which there could be a massive conversion of this 7 million acres of privately owned timberland for development purposes. 
   These 7 million acres not only provide a substantial amount of forest products for the Nation but also provide critical habitats for a unique group of plants and animals. 
   These 7 million acres help to contain a human population explosion that would create additional demands on the already scarce water supply in Florida and lead to degradation of water quality. 
   It is therefore in our Nation's interest to maintain Florida's existing timber lands for community use. 
   This legislation provides a long-term plan to restore and protect private forestry lands damaged by wildfires and other natural disasters. It directs the U.S. Department of Agriculture to act on its existing authority to develop a crop insurance program for small forestry landowners. 
   This type of program--which allows producers to invest in their own future to protect themselves from natural disasters such as fires, hurricanes, or tornadoes--will provide the same protection for forestry producers as is provided through USDA insurance plans for crops such as wheat or corn. 
   The availability of this support in times of disaster will provide incentives for private landowners to retain lands in forestry after disasters such as the current wildfires that we are experiencing in 1999. 
   The second part of our legislation will help to reduce the severity of future fire disasters by increasing the incentives for prescribed burning. 
   The State of Florida has an active prescribed burning program and burns an average of two million acres per year, including forestry, grasslands, and agricultural lands. 
   However, as evidenced by this week's events, existing levels of prescribed burning are not enough. 
   Large quantities of brush fuel accompanied by drought have created dangerous wildfire conditions. 
   One solution is to increase the frequency of prescribed burning to reduce fuel levels and the severity of fires when they occur. 
   In a study conducted by the Florida Division of Forestry, Orlando District, for the period 1981 to 1990, it was shown that an increase in prescribed burning leads to a decrease in the frequency of wildfires. 
   The study compared two counties--Osceola County and Brevard County which differ in the amount of prescribed burning they conduct. 
   Approximately five-hundred thousand acres are burned in Osceola County every 2 or 4 years. This compares with just over two-hundred and fifty thousand acres of lands in Brevard County on which prescribed burning is conducted. 
   The study found that the number of wildfires, the acres burned, and the average wildfires per acre were lower in Osceola County than Brevard County. 
   Our legislation attempts to encourage the use of prescribed burning as a forest management tool on private lands. 
   First, it authorizes the U.S. Forest Service to provide both technical and financial assistance for prescribed burning to states. 
   Grants to pay up to 75 percent of the cost of carrying out prescribed burns would be made to private landowners. 
   Second, our legislation seeks to enhance public support for the use of prescribed fire by addressing one of the most challenging issues--the misunderstanding of urban and suburban residents of the purpose of prescribed burning. 
   In the urban interface zone where much of Florida's forested lands are located, the opposition of local residents to smoke plumes can stop any efforts to conduct prescribed burning. 
   Our bill requires that the U.S. Forest Service and the Environmental Protection Agency develop education and outreach programs on this topic and make them available to state environmental and forest management agencies. 
   With these actions, this legislation will create a system to mitigate damages from wildfires. It will help to reduce the severity of future fires by removing obstacles for private landowners to conduct prescribed burns.  
   I hope you will join me in our long-term efforts to create a system for mitigating damages from natural disasters and reducing the severity of future wildfires by encouraging prescribed burning. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Ms. Angela Ewell-Madison, Mr. Sean McCluskie, and Mr. Jordan Coyle of my staff be afforded privileges of the floor during the duration of my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I prepared these remarks yesterday in anticipation that we would be debating the budget reform bill today. It is my understanding that subsequent to yesterday's offering of an amendment, which was referred to as the lockbox amendment, in lieu of the budget reform bill, that now the budget reform bill has been withdrawn. 
   But anticipating that that is a relatively temporary step, because we cannot avoid having to deal with the issues of budget reform if we are serious about our goal of preserving the momentum that is currently underway towards a surplus in the Federal Government fiscal accounts, I offer some comments today which I hope will be useful as we prepare for that return to the budget reform discussion. 
   I am very pleased that we are focusing on this issue, because it is an indication of our commitment to retain the fiscal discipline that has gotten us to the point where we have the opportunity to talk about a Federal budget surplus and how it should be appropriately used. 
   I want to discuss two interrelated issues. One I will call the issue of the ``vault'': How will we protect the surplus that we have once it has been attained? But the even more significant predicate issue is, How do we achieve the surplus? 
   I am concerned by some of the actions that were taken in 1998 which indicate a lack of resolve to protect the surplus. It is no good to have the securest vault in the bank possible if we fritter away the money we would like to place in that vault. If we do not address the underlying issues of fiscal discipline, responsibility, the Social Security trust fund will be endangered no matter how strong our lockbox is to protect it. 
   This Congress is in a unique position to reaffirm the stated commitment to fiscal discipline and to cure the previous willingness of Congresses to undermine that discipline through budget trickery. 
   As recently as 1993, the Federal budget deficit was at a record high of $290 billion. Last year, we learned that 5 years of effort, fiscal austerity, and a strong economy had transformed that staggering deficit into the first budget surplus in more than a generation. While we celebrated that success--it was a cause for celebration--it did not give Congress carte blanche authority to return to its spendthrift ways of the past. Especially daunting was the reality that 100 
   percent of the surplus was the result of surpluses in the Social Security trust fund. 
   We have a responsibility to our current generation, as well as to their children and grandchildren, to save that extra money until Social Security's long-term solvency is assured. Unfortunately, the 105th Congress stumbled in its commitment to that goal. Though it resisted a proposal to spend surplus funds on a catch-all omnibus list of tax cuts, and it similarly rejected suggestions that the surplus could be used for increased spending, it did not exercise similar good judgment during the end-of-the-year rush to adjourn. The same Congress that claimed to be saving the surplus for Social Security participated in raids on that same surplus through the back door. 
   In the waning hours of last year's budget negotiations, we passed a $532 billion omnibus appropriations bill. Inserted in that $532 billion spending bill was $21.4 billion of so-called emergency spending. As we know, the fact that that $21.4 billion was designated as an  emergency meant that it did not have to be offset by spending reductions elsewhere in the budget or by additional revenue. Rather, it was funded by reducing the surplus, that 100-percent Social Security-derived surplus. 
   Let me illustrate with these charts what has been happening. 
   In 1998, the stated Social Security surplus, that is the amount of revenue into the Social Security trust fund in excess of the checks that were written to the beneficiaries of Social Security, was $99 billion. But before that $99 billion could be realized, there was a predicate called for in it, and that was for $27 billion in order to offset the deficit that the Federal Government was running in its non-Social Security accounts. And then we added to that $27 billion an additional $3 billion in the fiscal year 1998 expenditures through that emergency appropriation that did not have to be offset by reductions in spending or additional revenue but came directly out of the surplus fund. 
   So instead of having a surplus of $99 billion, we ended up with a surplus of $69 billion. 
   What is the projection for fiscal year 1999? This year, the Social Security surplus has grown to $127 billion, but, again, the first call is going to be to offset the deficit which will be projected for the non-Social Security portion of the budget, which is $3 billion, the next $13 billion, which is this year's component of last year's emergency spending bill, and in addition to that, we are now discussing the possibility of additional funding for the Kosovo emergency of $6 billion. That is the most modest number which has been suggested thus far. Others are suggesting that number might be doubled or tripled in terms of its cost. 
   Instead of a Social Security surplus of $127 billion, we are now at $105 billion in Social Security surplus, with that number itself being subject to further dilution if there are additional emergency outlays allocated. 
   For fiscal year 2000, we are looking at a Social Security surplus of $138 billion, minus $5 billion to pay for deficits other than Social Security in the Federal budget, $5 billion, which is the final installment on that 1998 emergency appropriation bill, and, again, the possibility of additional emergency spending for Kosovo or other purposes. 
   Mr. President, it is critical that we exercise constraint in terms of how we use the emergency spending power available to Congress, or we will substantially dilute the funds that are going to be locked up in this lockbox vault protected for Social Security beneficiaries. I think there are several steps we need to take. 
   The first is that Congress needs to commit itself to reexamining that $21.4 billion we spent last year and determine what portions of that $21.4 billion did not meet the standards for an emergency appropriation. With that commitment, we should restore those funds to the Social Security surplus during this year's budget consideration. I am pleased that the Senate adopted an amendment to our budget resolution which committed us to that objective. That should be a commitment in which we should be joined by the House and the President. 
   Over the long haul, it is critical that we institute some additional spending procedures which will allow us to respond to true emergencies without, as we did in 1998, opening the door to misuse. 
   Senator SNOWE of Maine, Senator VOINOVICH of Ohio, and I have introduced legislation to permanently close these loopholes in our current budget procedure. These procedures would basically provide for a 60-vote supermajority of the Senate to be required in the event there was a challenge that items which were listed as emergencies in an emergency spending bill were not true emergencies and did not meet the statutory definition; also, a 60-vote supermajority for the passage of any bill which contained emergency spending so we could not have a repetition of what happened last year in that emergency spending was inserted into a large omnibus spending bill and, therefore, not effectively subject to removal. 
   Those are some of the procedural steps that should be taken in order to assure we do not have a continued repetition of a dilution of the Social Security surplus before it has a chance to get into the lockbox. 
   Now let me make a few points about the lockbox itself, the vault into which we intend to place these surpluses that, 
   hopefully, we have protected with greater vigilance than we did in the fall of 1998. 
   I strongly support developing measures which will create a financially solvent Social Security system for current and future beneficiaries. This is not only a fiscal goal, but it is a moral responsibility, a moral responsibility to carry out the contract that exists between the American people and the American Government for their financial security in retirement. I am pleased the Senate is debating this issue, since the trustees of the Social Security system are predicting that in the year 2034 the current Social Security system will not be solvent. It is critical that we take steps now to protect long-term solvency. 
   However, the proposed lockbox, which was a part of the budget reform legislation, in my opinion, is not sufficient to accomplish this objective. 
   What are its deficiencies? 
   First, it allows the Social Security surplus, in addition to paying down the national debt, to be used for unspecified ``Social Security reform.'' 
   Now, Social Security reform can mean different things, but not all of those things are related to achieving solvency in the Social Security system. Would Social Security reform include increasing the benefits which would make the program potentially even more subject to insolvency at an earlier date? Would it mean reducing revenue into the system, including such proposals as returning to a pay-as-you-go system or diverting a portion of the current revenue out of the Social Security system into some individual retirement accounts? All of those ideas may or may not have merit, but they should not be accomplished at the expense of our commitment to solvency in the current Social Security system. 
   I propose to offer an amendment at such time as it is appropriate that would have the Social Security surplus used solely to pay off national debt, specifically that component of the debt which is held by the public. Only this action will ensure the Social Security surplus is used for its intended purpose of meeting our obligations to the American people and, in so doing, contribute to a stronger American economy, which is the fundamental basis upon which the Federal Government will be able to meet its future obligations to Social Security beneficiaries. 
   There will be a cascading series of positive effects on the economy if we commit the Social Security surplus to paying down the national debt. Paying down the debt will lower long-term interest rates. These lower rates will make it less expensive for Americans to borrow money, and this lower cost of borrowing will encourage business ventures to expand, to increase their productivity, to increase their hiring. 
   It will encourage increased investment in long-term fundamental areas such as education. The new economic activity and increased labor productivity will lead to increased economic growth. This growth will lead to the strengthened capacity of the National Government to meet its Social Security obligations. 
   These points were best expressed by the chairman of the Federal Reserve System, Mr. Alan Greenspan, when he said,  
   ..... in light of these inexorable demographic trends, I have always emphasized that we should be aiming budgetary surpluses and using the proceeds to retire outstanding Federal debt. This would put further downward pressure on long-term interest rates, which would enhance private capital investment, labor productivity, and economic growth. 
   If I were allowed, I would also have offered a second amendment that would not tie the Government's ability to borrow debt from the public to a 10-year budget projection. In the legislation that was before us, there was a proposal to use future estimates of our national debt as the benchmark for determining whether we had protected the Social Security surplus. I think there is merit in that approach, but I believe this legislation had carried that merit beyond its reasonable limits. 
   I would provide, through the amendment I had intended to offer, for a more reasonable and credible debt ceiling target. It also would have provided enhanced flexibility to accommodate  unanticipated events, both domestic and foreign. I would suggest that it is an impossible task for any person to estimate the budget and to estimate the national debt on a 10-year basis. I would offer as my basis for that statement a look-back just 5 years, not 10 years, which this legislation proposed. 
   In January of 1993, the Congressional Budget Office estimated what the national debt would be 5 years hence, in the fiscal year 1998, which ended September 30, 1998. Their projection was that the national debt on that date would be $4.863 trillion. At the same time, in January of 1993, the administration made an estimate of what they thought the national debt would be 5 years hence. Their projection was $4.576 trillion. The actual number was $3.720 trillion. So the CBO was off by over a trillion dollars. The administration was off by $856 billion. That was a 5-year projection. 
   What we are proposing in this legislation is to use 10-year projections and to give those the sanctity of almost biblical correctness, because they would become the basis upon which our future budgets would be predicated. 
   Mr. President, seeing my time is about to expire, I offer these amendments as an indication of the direction which I think we should be proceeding in as we strive together to achieve a very important goal, which is to protect the Social Security surplus for its intended purpose of meeting the obligations that we have for this and future generations of Americans. I believe the amendments I will offer will help both assure that the money is protected before it goes into the vault, and that the vault itself is a reasonable and secure place in which we can place those funds. 
   Protecting Social Security for our children and grandchildren is one of the highest goals of the Federal Government. We can make the lockbox stronger, and we can and should control emergency spending so there will be money to put in the lockbox for future generations. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. BREAUX addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, along with Senators SPECTER, COCHRAN and ROBB, to introduce the Access to Women's Health Care Act of 1999. This important legislation would provide women with direct access to providers of obstetric and gynecological services. It is critical that women have direct access to health care providers who are trained to address their unique health care needs. 
   Women's health has historically received little attention and it is time that we correct that. An obstetrician/gynecologist provides health care that encompasses the woman as a whole patient, while focusing on their reproductive systems. Access to obstetrician/gynecologists would improve the health of women by providing routine and preventive health care throughout the woman's lifetime. In fact, 60 percent of all visits to obstetrician/gynecologists are for preventive care. 
   According to a survey by the Commonwealth Fund, preventive care is better when women have access to obstetrician/gynecologists. The specialty of obstetrics/gynecology is devoted to the health care of women. Primary and preventive care are integral services provided by obstetrician/gynecologists. Complete physical exams, family planning, hypertension and cardiovascular surveillance, osteoporosis and smoking cessation counseling, are all among the services provided by obstetrician/gynecologists. For many women, an obstetrician/gynecologist is often the only physician they see regularly during their reproductive years. 
   Congress, so far, has been more reluctant to ensure direct access to women's health care providers than states. Thirty-seven states have stepped up to the plate and required at least some direct access for women's health care. We should commend these states for their efforts and work together so that women across the nation are afforded this important right. 
   I hope that with the help of my colleagues in Congress we will be able to improve women's health, by increasing their access to providers of obstetric/gynecological care. This provision has been included in varying forms in many of the managed care reform proposals this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990419</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to offer a tribute to an outstanding Floridian and a premier musician, Ms. Kathryn Holm, of The Florida Orchestra, will be recognized this evening at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts as ``Arts Administrator of the Year.'' 
   As we prepare to begin a new millennium, we must remember that a key indicator of the health and well-being of any society has always been its treatment of the arts. Our society is one which admires its artists, and Ms. Holm has spent her career providing a basis for our reverence of music, working with The Florida Orchestra to transform sounds into majestic expressions. 
   Kathryn Holm joined The Florida Orchestra as a principal harpist in 1977. Some 17 years later, she was named executive of the orchestra, which was, at the time, heavily in debt. 
   Combining her musical talent with her business acumen, she was able to restore fiscal solvency to The Florida Orchestra. Her effective three-stage recovery plan earned Kathryn Holm the ``Jessie Ball DuPont Turnaround Award,'' while restoring credibility to the orchestra. Now in its fourth consecutive year without operating losses, The Florida Orchestra has boosted ticket sales, sponsorships and donations, and released its first compact disc. 
   Mr. President, I am honored to join the art world in applauding the leadership of Kathryn Holm on this special day.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, Member of the Senate, I am today introducing the National Park Preservation Act with my colleague Senator REID of Nevada. This legislation will preserve and protect threatened or impaired ecosystems, critical habitats, and cultural and other core park resources within our National Park System. 
   As you are all aware, the National Park Service has a presence in virtually every state in the nation. There are a total of 345 units in the national park system spread throughout the nation. My home state of Florida is home to three National Parks--Everglades, Biscayne, and Dry Tortugas; two National Preserves--Big Cypress and Timucuan Ecological and Historical Preserve; two National Seashores--Canaveral and Gulf Islands; two National Monuments--Castillo de San Marcos and Fort Matanzas; and two National Memorials--DeSoto and Fort Caroline. 
   Although these National Parks are treasured throughout the nation, everyday activities often threaten the resources of our park system. For example, in Yellowstone National Park an inadequate sewage system frequently discharges materials into precious resources such as Yellowstone Lake. Development surrounding Mojave National Park threatens the park's desert wilderness. Ground-level ozone accumulating at Great Smoky Mountains National Park threatens the park's core resource--visibility. Manipulation of the natural hydrologic system impacts water quality and water availability in Everglades National Park. 
   The Graham-Reid National Park Preservation Act will preserve and protect threatened or impaired ecosystems, critical habitat, cultural resources and other core resources within our National Park System. The bill will establish a permanent account using Outer Continental Shelf revenues to provide $500 million annually to the Department of Interior to protect and preserve these resources. These funds will be made available for projects such as land acquisition, construction, grants to state or local governments, or partnerships with other federal agencies that seek to combat identified threats to ecosystems, critical habitats, cultural resources, and other core park resources. In this legislation, I  also continue my longstanding efforts to protect Florida's coastal resources by making revenues from any new oil and gas leases or from development of any existing leases in a moratorium area ineligible for expenditure in this account. 
   Thirty percent of the $500 million will be available for park units threatened or impaired by activities occurring within the unit such as sewage treatment at Yellowstone Park. Seventy percent of the $500 million will be available for park units threatened or impaired by activities occurring outside of the unit, such as degradation of water resources at Everglades National Park. 
   Of these funds, the legislation specifically provides $75 million to the Everglades restoration effort as the keynote project of the legislation. 
   The Everglades National Park is one component of the Everglades ecosystem which stretches from the Kissimmee River basin near Orlando and all the way to Florida Bay and Keys. It is the only ecosystem of its kind in the world. It is the largest wetland and subtropical wilderness in the United States. It is home to a unique population of plant and wildlife. The water in this system is the lifeblood of the freshwater aquifer that provides most of Florida's drinking water. 
   For more than a century, this ecosystem has been altered to facilitate development and protect against hurricanes and droughts. Today, almost 50% of the original Everglades has been drained or otherwise altered. The remaining Everglades, and in particular, the regions located within Everglades National Park, are severely threatened by nutrient-rich water, interrupted hydrology, decreased water supply, exotic plants, and mercury contamination. 
   On July 1 the Army Corps of Engineers will submit to Congress an Everglades restoration plan, termed the ``Restudy'' by the Water Resources Development Act of 1996. This plan reviews the original Central and South Florida Flood Control project which was initiated in the 1940s by the Army Corps and has been the source of the ecosystem manipulation that occurred in Florida since that time. The Restudy outlines the basic elements of a plan to restore the Everglades as closely to their natural state as possible. This is a difficult and complex task since the original area of the Everglades was reduced by 50% with the development of both coasts as large metropolitan areas. Costs of execution of this plan will be shared on a 50-50 basis with the state of Florida. 
   There has never been a restoration project of this size in the history of the United States or the world. This is an opportunity to preserve a national treasure that was destroyed by our own actions in the past. The bill we will introduce today will provide dedicated funds for the federal share of the land acquisition portions of this project which is so critical to the nation. 
   I look forward to working with each of you as we seek to protect and preserve the ecosystems, critical habitat, cultural resources and other core resources within our National Park System. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today, along with Senators MOYNIHAN, KENNEDY, DURBIN, FEINSTEIN, WELLSTONE, and LEAHY to introduce the Fairness to Legal Immigrants Act of 1999. I commend my colleagues in the Senate and the House of Representatives, who are also introducing this legislation today, for their efforts to restore benefits to legal immigrants. 
   This legislation includes several provisions which restore important health, disability and nutrition benefits to additional categories of legal immigrants. These benefits would improve the lives of many of our most vulnerable, such as pregnant women and children, the elderly and the disabled. 
   One of the provisions in this proposal would grant states the option to provide health care coverage to legal immigrant children through Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)--in essence eliminating the arbitrary designation of August 22, 1996, as the cutoff date for benefits eligibility to children. The welfare reform legislation passed in 1996 prohibits states from covering these immigrant children during their first five years in the United States. This has serious consequences. 
   Children without health insurance do not get important care for preventable diseases. Many uninsured children are hospitalized for acute asthma attacks that could have been prevented, or suffer from permanent hearing loss from untreated ear infections. Without adequate health care, common illnesses can turn into life-long crippling diseases, whereas appropriate treatment and care can help children with diseases like diabetes live relatively normal lives. A lack of adequate medical care will also hinder the social and educational development of children, as children who are sick and left untreated are less ready to learn. 
   In addition to allowing extended coverage of legal immigrant children, this initiative aims to provide Medicaid to pregnant women and disabled immigrants regardless of whether they participate in Social Security's Supplemental Security Income program. States would also become eligible for reimbursement of costs associated with providing institutional care for some elderly and disabled immigrants. 
   Another important issue addressed by this legislation is the exemption allowing legal immigrants who are victims of domestic abuse to receive assistance. At present, victims of domestic violence are restricted from receiving benefits during their first five years in the United States. These individuals are most vulnerable and should not be subjected to staying in a bad situation due to lack of resources. 
   In this legislation we attempt to diminish the arbitrary cutoff date used in the 1996 welfare law to determine the eligibility of legal immigrants to benefits they desperately need. Our nation was built by people who came to our shores seeking opportunity and a better life, and America has greatly  benefitted from the talent, resourcefulness, determination, and work ethic of many generations of legal immigrants. Time and time again, they have restored our faith in the American Dream. We should not discriminate between these important members of our community based on nothing more than an arbitrary date. 
   I hope that with the help of my colleagues in Congress we will be able to rectify the discrimination suffered by individuals who have legally entered our country, who pay taxes, who serve in the military, and who add to the fabric of this nation. As our nation enters what promises to be a dynamic century, the United States needs a prudent, fair immigration policy to ensure that avenues of refuge and opportunity remain open for those seeking freedom, justice, and a better life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I, too, appreciate the vote of the Senator from Connecticut in favor of this, I think, quite moderate but extremely important and timely resolution. 
   Today in Geneva the United Nations Human Rights Commission commenced its annual meetings. One of the issues that will be before the Commission will be whether a resolution condemning human rights in Cuba and appointing a special rapporteur to review those conditions should pass. Unfortunately, last year a similar resolution for the first time in many years failed to pass. 
   The question is, How has Cuba reacted to the fact that for 12 months it has not had the international condemnation of its human rights record, which has been the case for many of the years of the Castro regime? What in fact has happened is that we have seen a significant, almost inexplicable increase in the denial of fundamental rights, political rights, human rights, civil rights, to the people of Cuba and, as my colleague has just indicated, the examples of the loss of fundamental human dignity. 
   Why are we passing this resolution? We are passing this resolution not only to express our outrage at this condition but also to urge the international community to join us, the international community which has so recently been populated by new democracies, for those new democracies to step forward and express their condemnation for one of the few remaining dictatorial regimes in the world. 
   This recent crackdown by the Cuban Government has already drawn the condemnation of the international community, including some of Cuba's staunchest friends, such as Canada. A resolution is now being circulated in Geneva by several Eastern European states condemning the Cuban Government for its human rights record and calling for the appointment of a special rapporteur. 
   Mr. President, I think it is significant that these Eastern European states, which suffered under the tyranny of Nazi Germany and Stalinist Russia, are leading the effort to highlight the repression and terror that accompanies everyday life in Cuba. 
   This resolution calls on the U.S. Government to take all measures to support this resolution so that the international community, including the international community with the United States of America, can shine the light of freedom on Castro's brutal repressive regime. 
   I urge my colleagues to strongly support this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the threat to the surplus is not the threat that it will or will not be placed in a lockbox. It is a threat whether the surplus will be dissipated by expenditures that are not offset by either other spending or by sources of revenue to support those additional expenditures. 
   I believe if you are seriously committed to preserving the surplus so it can be used to strengthen our Social Security system, you should give strong support to the amendment offered by the Senator from Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today along with Senators GRASSLEY, BAUCUS, HATCH, BREAUX, JEFFORDS, KERREY, MACK, ROBB, MURKOWSKI, CHAFEE, THOMPSON, BOND, and BINGAMAN to introduce the Pension Coverage and Portability Act. I am honored to be here today, in a bipartisan group, and especially with my colleague Senator CHARLES GRASSLEY, who has put a tremendous effort into crafting many parts of this bill. He and I recognize that for our nation to solve what will be one of this generation's greatest challenges, building retirement security for today's workers, we need to move in a common sense, bipartisan fashion. 
   Many of the original cosponsors of this bill were key in crafting sections of this legislation over the last three years. Senator GRASSLEY's efforts here have expanded fairness for women and families, and focuses on the benefits of retirement education. 
   Senator BAUCUS has brought the ideas that expand pension coverage and ease the administrative burdens on America's small businesses. 
   Portability, so important as we become a more mobile society, received the attention of Senator JEFFORDS. 
   All businesses will have the hard work of Senator HATCH to thank for many of the regulatory relief, and administrative simplification elements of this bill. 
   Senator BREAUX focused on the ``big picture'' of retirement security by authoring the ESOP provisions. 
   And finally, Senators KERREY and ROBB provided valuable new input that helped shape his legislation. 
   Throughout the process of putting this bill together, our main task has been to listen. We have listened at town hall meetings, at the Retirement Security Summit I held last year in Tampa, and a Women's Summit I held in Orlando last April. I am also planning another Retirement Security Summit in Jacksonville this May to continue the dialogue on this important issue. 
   The ideas have come from pension actuaries, tax attorneys, Cabinet leaders, and some of the best ideas, from everyday people. 
   With reason, some of the public debate recently has focused on President Clinton's mantra ``Save Social Security First.'' And we all agree, on both sides of the aisle, that we need to ensure that social security is as viable for my nine grandchildren as it was for may parents and will be for me. 
   However, social security is only one part of the picture. Pensions and personal savings will make up an ever increasing part of retirement security. So when Congress takes action to ensure the future of social security, we are only addressing one-third of the problem. 
   Social Security may play less of a role for each generation. We must develop personal savings, and we must have years of work pay off in workers vesting in pensions. 
   Our bill will help hard working Americans build personal retirement savings through their employers, through 401(k)s, through payroll deduction IRAs, and through higher limits on savings.  
   Employers and workers both win. Employers get simpler pension 
   systems with less administrative burden, and more loyal employees. And workers build secure retirement and watch savings accumulate over years of work. 
   We need to be able to offer business owners and their workers: uncumbersome portability, administrative simplicity, and the confidence that their plans are secure and well funded. 
   To achieve this goal, we focused on six areas: simplification, portability, expanded coverage for small business, pension security and enforcement, women's equity issues, and expanding retirement planning and education opportunities. 
   The largest section of this legislation deals with expanded coverage for small business. It's the largest section because small businesses have the greatest difficulty achieving retirement security. 51 million American workers have no retirement plan, 21 million of these employees work in small businesses. 
   The problem: statistics indicate that only a small percentage of workers in firms of less than 100 employees have access to a retirement plan. We take a step forward in eliminating one of the first hurdles that a small business faces when it establishes a pension plan. On one hand, the federal government is encouraging these businesses to start pension plans, and then we turn around and charge the small business, at times, up to one thousand dollars to register their plan with the Internal Revenue Service. 
   The solution: eliminate this fee for small businesses. We need to encourage small businesses to start plans, not discourage them with high registration fees. 
   Another problem for small businesses and others is people postponing retirement decisions until a later date. Many young people in their 20's and 30's don't think they need to worry about retirement security ``right now,'' it's a decision that can wait for later. 
   Our solution to this is to encourage businesses to have ``opt out'' plans for retirement savings. Instead of the worker having to actively decide to participate and fill out paperwork, he or she is automatically participating unless they actively decide not to. 
   Another problem this legislation addresses: retirement security for women and families. Historically speaking, women live longer than men, therefore, need greater savings for retirement. Yet our pension and retirement laws do not reflect this. Women are more mobile than men, moving in and out of the workforce due to family responsibilities, thus they have less of a chance to vest. Fewer than 32% of all women retirees receive a pension. Currently two-thirds of working women are employed in sectors of the economy that are unlikely to have a retirement plan: service and retail, and small business. 
   In an effort to address one of the problems--preparing for a longer life expectancy, we realistically adjust upwards the age in which you must start withdrawing funds. 
   Under current law, you must start withdrawing money from retirement plans at age seventy-and-a-half. However, a woman at age seventy can still have three decades in retirement. I know, because I represent many of them in Florida. At the Retirement Summit I hosted in Tampa, Florida, several retirees mentioned that they wanted to keep this money in retirement savings for as long as possible. We raise the seventy-and-a-half age to seventy-five for mandatory minimum distributions. 
   Second, we say that $100,000 of any IRA will be exempt from minimum distribution rules. This accomplishes two important goals: simplifying the bureaucracy for thousands of Americans who have less than this balance, and protecting a vital nest egg for the last years of retirement so that long term care and other expenses can be covered. 
   Another problem addressed in this section of the legislation is the mobility of our workforce. On average, Americans will have 7 different employers during their career which means they are often not at any job long enough to vest into retirement benefits. 
   Our legislation offers a solution--shrinking the 5 year vesting cycle to a three year cycle. We believe this is more reflective of job tenure in the 1990's and on into the next century. 
   As I mentioned earlier, the current U.S. worker will have seven different employers. We have the possibility of a generation of American workers who will retire with many small accounts--creating a complex maze of statements and features, different for each account. This is a problem--pensions should be portable from job to job. 
   One solution to this problem--allow employees to roll one retirement account into another as they move from job to job so that when they retire, they will have one retirement account. It's easier to monitor, less complicated to keep track of, and builds a more secure retirement for the worker. 
   Portability is important, but we must also reduce the red tape. The main obstacle that companies face in establishing retirement programs is bureaucratic administrative burden. For example: for small plans, it costs $228 per person per year just to comply with all the forms, tests and regulations. 
   We have a common sense remedy to one of the most vexing problems in pension administration: figuring out how much money to contribute to the company's plan. It's a complex formula of facts, statistics and assumptions. We want to be able to say to plans that have no problem with underfunding: to help make these calculations, you can use the prior year's data to help make the proper contribution. You don't have to re-sort through the numbers each and every year. If your plan is sound, use reliable data from the previous year, and then verify when all the final details are available. Companies will be able to calculate, and then budget accordingly--and not wait until figures and rates out of their control are released by outside sources. 
   I have said time and time again today that Americans are not saving, but those who are oftentimes hit limits on the amounts they can save. The problem is that most of these limits were established more than 20 years ago. Currently, for example, in a 401(k) plan the IRS limits the amount an employee can contribute to $10,000 a year. 
   Our solution is to raise that limit to $12,000, along with raising many other limits that affect savings in order to build a more secure retirement for working Americans. 
   The building of retirement security will also take some education. One of the major reasons Americans do not prepare for retirement is that they don't understand what benefits are available and what benefits they are acquiring. 
   Our solution to this dilemma is regular and easy to read benefit statements from employers reminding workers early in their career of the importance of retirement savings. These statements would clarify what benefits workers are accruing. And from this information each American will more easily be able to determine the personal savings they need in order to build a sound retirement. 
   With the introduction of this legislation today it is my goal to ensure that each American who works hard for thirty or forty years has gotten every opportunity for a secure and comfortable retirement. 
   I thank my colleagues who have worked so hard with me on this measure, and ask for the support of those in this Chamber on this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, several months ago, workers preparing land for development at the mouth of the Miami River began to notice a mysterious circular formation in the limestone bedrock that forms the foundation of the City of Miami. Further examination revealed that this site, where the river meets the bay, was utilized by the prehistoric Tequesta civilization for over 2,000 years, perhaps serving as an astronomical tool or as a cultural center for their complex maritime society. Floridians marveled at this clue to our past, and Miami is rediscovering and rejoicing in the Ancient Tequesta culture which, so many centuries before us, survived and flourished in an environment once dominated by sawgrass and gators, not condos and cruise ships. 
   I strongly believe that we have a responsibility to save and study reminders of our heritage. So in order to save this particular landmark, I urge you to join me in asking the National Park Service to examine the feasibility of including the Miami Circle as a component of Biscayne National Park. This is an appropriate way of fulfilling our responsibility to preserve this historically significant Tequesta site. Since 1980, Biscayne National Park has stretched from Biscayne Bay near Miami to the northernmost Florida Keys, covering 180,000 acres, 95 percent of which is water. The Park is already home to over one hundred known archaeological sites, the majority of which are submerged, as well as ten historic structures. Among those archaeological sites are several smaller, ``satellite'' Tequesta camps. Protection of the Miami Circle within the boundaries of the Park, in conjunction with these other camps, would allow for comprehensive site comparison, investigation and study. We must take seriously our responsibility as guardians of this cultural landmark and recognize that only through conservation and analysis will we be able to fully grasp the magnitude of this discovery. 
   Discussions with experts in the field of historic preservation have made me aware that the challenges faced by the people of the State of Florida in their efforts to save the Circle are not unlike those encountered during other attempts to save threatened monuments to their heritage--be they tornado-damaged barns that housed soldiers during the Civil War or missing links in the Underground Railroad discovered in the course of site preparation for development. I'm working with experts in this field to identify ways that the federal government might become a partner in these types of emergency situations so that sites of cultural significance will not fall victim to natural occurrences or development. I hope to introduce legislation soon that will give Americans the opportunity to save historic landmarks that they have identified in their own communities. 
   There is no Federal emergency fund or program to save the Miami Circle. However, the annexation of the 2.2 acre Miami Circle property into Biscayne National Park, if found to be appropriate in a feasibility study, will save the Miami Circle from bulldozers and cement pourers, will allow us to gain a greater understanding of the Tequesta culture, and will be a valuable asset to our National Parks System. We will not only be preserving a valuable piece  of history, but will also provide a fitting gateway to one of our Nation's newest National Parks. 
   By Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire (for himself, Mr. SHELBY, and Mr. HELMS): 
   S.J. Res. 16. A joint resolution proposing a constitutional amendment to establish limited judicial terms of office; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Comprehensive Border Protection Act of 1999 which Senator GRASSLEY and I introduced on March 23, 1999. This bill enhances our efforts to secure our borders by providing the U.S. Customs Service with  the necessary funding it requires to perform the multi faceted functions of drug interdiction, trade facilitation, and international passenger and cargo inspection services. The bill also addresses the concerns that I, as well as many of my colleagues, have regarding the U.S. Customs Service and its ability to efficiently and effectively: Determine enforcement and trade facilitation goals, objectives, and priorities; allocate assets and resources in response to changing threats and needs; address employee misconduct and integrity concerns; and ensure full participation in a comprehensive strategy to combat international drug trafficking and money laundering. 
   Combating international drug trafficking is critical to our national security. While we have experienced some success in our counter drug operations along the Southwest border, there are undeniable signs that drug traffickers are adapting to our law enforcement efforts. 
   During the 1980s, as our law enforcement presence increased along the Florida coast, drug traffickers responded by relocating their operations to the Southwest border. Reacting to this change, we abandoned Customs marine operations in Florida and intensified our efforts along the United States-Mexico border. Now, drug traffickers have renewed the use of established smuggling routes in the Caribbean and off the coast of Florida to surreptitiously import their destructive cargo into the United States. 
   During fiscal year 1998, Customs cocaine seizures in my home State of Florida totaled 69,479 pounds, a 23 percent increase over 1997 seizures. Drug related deaths in Florida also increased as more and more of our young adults experimented with heroin--the most pure heroin we have ever encountered; heroin so pure it can be smoked, rather than injected into a vein with a syringe. 
   An effective U.S. drug enforcement strategy must be proactive, including an intensified interdiction effort that exploits the inherent vulnerabilities of transporting drugs into the United States by air, land and sea. As one of our primary interdiction agencies, Customs must have the necessary assets and resources to meet its interdiction responsibilities. 
   Interdiction, however, is but one part of a successful drug enforcement strategy. Our strategy must also emphasize fundamental investigative work required to identify, infiltrate, disrupt and dismantle drug smuggling and money laundering organizations. To perform its investigative responsibilities, Customs must have the appropriate funding to sustain an experienced work force of inspectors and agents dedicated to drug enforcement operations. These inspectors and agents must be assigned to the most vulnerable and critical locations where illegal shipments of drugs enter the United States--our border with Mexico, as well as Florida and the Gulf Coast. 
   Our counter drug strategy must also recognize the importance of, and be sensitive to, the needs of the international trade community. Enhancing and facilitating open trade is essential to our economic health. To sustain U.S. economic growth, we must maintain the free flow of trade across our borders, while remaining vigilant to ensure that our open borders are not exploited by those who would use legitimate commerce to conceal their illegal activities. 
   Over the past few years, U.S. seaports and airports have benefitted from the increasing growth of international commerce. During 1998, international traffic at Florida ports increased approximately 17.9 percent. In response to the increase in international passenger and cargo arrivals, a number of new cruise ship terminals, container freight stations and passenger inspection facilities have been constructed and expanded. Additionally, operations in free trade zones and bonded warehouses have increased. However, in the face of this growth, I am concerned that Customs have been unable to adequately respond through the reallocation of personnel and funding. 
   We must ensure that Customs, in response to growth and change in international commerce, is prepared to review its resource allocation process on a regular basis. Customs must be able to shift both personnel and funding as threat and need dictate. States, such as Florida, that depend on the presence of Customs personnel to facilitate international trade, must be assured that sufficient Customs assets are in place to inspect and process both international passengers and cargo as they arrive in our seaports and airports. 
   The Comprehensive Border Protection Act of 1999 establishes a more accountable Customs Service by requiring Customs to report to this body, no later than 120 days after this legislation is enacted, on the methods utilized to identify enforcement priorities and trade facilitation objectives. This legislation requires that Customs establish performance standards and objectives against which we may evaluate the progress toward the goals identified in the customs annual plan. This legislaiton is a significant step toward giving customs the ability and authority to reallocate resources in order to meet enforcement demands and commercial operations needs. 
   The bill also directs Customs to develop and implement an accountability model to address violations of administrative policies and procedures, as well as allegations of corruption. The purpose of this provision is to ensure employee misconduct at the Customs Service is addressed in an efficient, effective and equitable manner. It is essential to the credibility of the agency that Customs address allegations of employee misconduct without unnecessary delay.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that three congressional fellows in my office, Sean McCluskie, Matt Barry, and Angela Ewell-Madison, be granted the privilege of the floor during further consideration of the legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have two amendments that I will submit. First is in the form of a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this resolution--``The Federal Tobacco Recovery and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit Resolution of 1999''--urges the Administration to set aside funds from any Federal tobacco-related litigation for the primary purpose of strengthening the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund and second to help pay for a Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   In the President's January 19, 1999 State of the Union Address he announced that the Justice Department was preparing a litigation plan to take tobacco companies to court and that the funds recovered from such an effort would be used to strengthen the Medicare program. 
   The details of the Justice Department's litigation plan are still not known at this time. However, the United States Senate should be on record as to how any funds recovered should be spent. 
   It is my belief that our first priority must be to shore up the Medicare Trust Fund which, by the most recent estimates of the Congressional Budget Office, shows the program going into insolvency in 2010. 
   The second use of these funds should then go to help defray the costs of a Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   While this resolution states clearly as to how these funds ought to be spent, a few things must be made clear: 
   1. This resolution must not impede our efforts to address the immediate need among seniors for access to affordable prescription drugs. We must do something now and must not use this resolution as an excuse not to act now. 
   2. The funding mechanism for this benefit is not a tax, is not a payroll increase, is not a premium increase and does not tap into the ``surplus''. 
   Some of you might ask the question, ``Why should we look to the tobacco industry to fund a Medicare prescription drug benefit?'' 
   The answer to this question is clear. Tobacco companies produce a product that is responsible for millions of deaths and billions of dollars worth of tobacco-related illness in this country. Taxpayers should not be forced to pay for what the tobacco industry is primarily responsible for. 
   Medicare alone is estimated to incur more than $10 billion in expenses for the treatment of tobacco-related illness every year. This figure reflects what Medicare covers. What this figure does not reflect is the amount of money paid out of the pockets of beneficiaries for all the outpatient prescription drugs needed for the treatment of tobacco-related illness that Medicare does not cover. The types of drugs I am referring to include: 
   Zyban--The only prescription drug available to assist smokers in quitting. This would be a key element in a smoking cessation and broader prevention strategy. 
   Bronchodilators--used in the treatment of emphysema. 
   Nitroglycerin--used in the treatment of angina pectoris (reduction in blood flow to the heart). 
   Cholestyramine and Colestipol--used in the treatment of high cholesterol. 
   Calcium Channel Blockers/Diuretics/Beta Blockers/Vasodilators--used in the treatment of high blood pressure. 
   The use of tobacco products and the cost of treatment is draining the Medicare program. But it is costing Medicare beneficiaries their lives. 
   According to the American Cancer Society, individuals who smoke have double the heart attack risk of non-smokers. Cigarette smoking is the biggest risk factor for sudden cardiac death. And smokers who have a heart attack are more likely to die and die suddenly (within an hour) than are non-smokers. 
   These are real costs that real people face every day. 
   Combine these sobering facts with the overwhelming desire among nearly all our colleagues, the Nation's leading policy experts, and most importantly, beneficiaries of the program, that prescription drugs must be included in any reform of the Medicare program. The need for prescription drugs is undeniable. Just listen to some of the facts: 
   80 percent of retired persons take a prescription drug every day. 
   Annual drug expenditures for the average Medicare beneficiary are approximately $600. 
   While individuals 65 or older represent 12 percent of the U.S. population, they consume more than one-third of all prescription drugs. 
   Excluding the cost of premiums, drugs account for almost one-third of the elderly's health costs and expenditures. 
   Approximately 10 percent of Medicare beneficiaries account for nearly half of all drug spending among the elderly. 
   By 2007, the Health Care Financing Administration projects that drug costs will make up over 8 percent of total health care spending (in 1996 this figure was 6 percent). 
   Combine this need with the fact that in a recent study published in the journal Health Affairs, approximately one third of all Medicare beneficiaries have no prescription drug coverage at all. 
   And the two-thirds of Medicare beneficiaries that reportedly do have coverage (through supplemental programs such as Medigap or employee-based retirement health plans) have coverage that is not uniform, often limited, and frequently very expensive. 
   A recent study conducted by the League of Women Voters and the Kaiser Family Foundation, in which over 6,500 of current and future Medicare beneficiaries were interviewed on their views of reforming the Medicare program, found that after fraud, waste, and abuse, the number one concern for beneficiaries is access to affordable prescription drugs. 
   Advances in biotechnology and genetic engineering have brought about a true revolution in the care and treatment of patients. What once seemed science fiction in 1965 is today's scientific reality. 
   In today's, and tomorrow's, health care system, prescription drugs are an integral part of every health care professional's medical arsenal. 
   But these advances in technology have come at a price. A price that, for many seniors, is not affordable. Or even worse, forces them to make decisions nobody should face. 
   Decisions about purchasing drugs or paying the rent. Or skipping doses of a prescription or reducing the dosage to make it last longer--decisions that can often have serious health consequences. 
   What good are the best drugs in the world if nobody can afford them or they bankrupt people trying to do the right thing? 
   This is where this resolution makes a difference. This resolution says that we ought to find a way to pay for prescription drugs. To pay for them in a manner that is fiscally responsible. 
   As I noted earlier, this resolution does not guarantee a Medicare prescription drug benefit since it is contingent upon a successful litigation effort by the Justice Department. 
   And, the size and scope of a benefit funded by such a recovery would be dependent on the size of the recovery. 
   To give my colleagues a sense of the potential size of a successful litigation effort, and using the recent State tobacco settlement as a benchmark, we could expect a Federal lawsuit that could match or exceed the $206 billion settlement of the States. 
   So this is no small undertaking and has the potential to have far reaching, positive consequences for the Medicare program. 
   This resolution would also prioritize the types of prescription drugs that ought to be funded. First priority would go to funding drugs used in the treatment of tobacco-related illness. If additional funds are available, the range of drugs could then be expanded. 
   I want to re-iterate that this resolution should not be used to take this distinguished body off the hook for addressing the immediate need among seniors for affordable prescription drugs. 
   We must continue to work to find a way to handle this problem now. Our resolution, if adopted, would provide momentum for this effort and for the Justice Department's litigation efforts. 
   Finally, this resolution has the support of the nation's largest senior  membership organization, the American Association of Retired Persons. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Mr. President, last week, we had very heated debate on the question of whether the Federal Government should designate a portion of the tobacco settlements received by the 50 individual States and require them to use those designated funds for certain specific purposes. By more than a 2-to-1 margin, the Senate rejected that proposal. 
   There were a number of reasons why the Senate rejected that proposal. I think they were strong and compelling reasons. They included the fact that the States had initiated these litigations against the tobacco industry without the assistance of the Federal Government, that the States were acting responsibly in utilizing the tobacco funds; and I believe a persuasive reason was the fact that the Federal Government announced its intention to initiate its own litigation against the tobacco industry for its loss of revenue through programs such as Medicare to tobacco-related diseases. 
   This amendment builds upon that debate of last week. It builds, also, upon a statement that was made by the President in his January 19 State of the Union Address in which the President stated that the Justice Department was preparing a litigation plan to take tobacco companies to court, and that the funds recovered from that effort would be used to strengthen the Medicare program. The details of the Justice Department litigation plan are still unknown at this time. However, I think it is appropriate that the Senate should be on record as to how these funds, when recovered, should be utilized. 
   It is my belief that the first priority must be to strengthen the Medicare system, and that the most appropriate method of achieving that objective is to provide that the first call of any recovery from a Federal tobacco litigation would be to replace those funds in the Medicare trust fund that have been excessively expended in order to treat tobacco-related afflictions. 
   Second is that those funds should be used to commence a Medicare prescription drug benefit. Why is it appropriate that the second call for these funds should be to fund a prescription medication benefit? These reasons include that a substantial amount of the expenditures for tobacco-related diseases end up having a pharmacological cost, and some of the most used and most expensive medications are those which are related to the treatment through prescription medication of tobacco-related diseases. Zyban, for instance, is the only prescription drug available to assist smokers in quitting their addiction. Other drugs that relate to bronchitis, used for treatment in emphysema, nitroglycerin, and used for treatment of angina pectoris, a disease frequently associated with tobacco use, are examples of the types of prescription medications that are utilized in large part because of a tobacco affliction. The use of tobacco products is costing Medicare by draining its resources. But it is costing the Medicare beneficiaries potentially their lives. 
   According to the American Cancer Society, individuals who smoke have double the heart attack risk of nonsmokers. Therefore, they are more likely to require the medication associated with heart disease. Cigarette smoking is the biggest risk factor for sudden cardiac death. Smokers who had a heart attack are more likely to die, and die suddenly, than nonsmokers. These are real costs, these are real people whose lives are at stake. 
   Mr. President, just listen to some of the facts in terms of 
   the use by our Medicare beneficiary population of prescription medication--medication which today is not covered by the Medicare program. Eighty percent of retired persons take at least one prescribed drug every day. 
   Annual drug expenditures for the average Medicare beneficiary is $600. While individuals 65 or older represent only 12 percent of the United States population, they consume more than one-third of all prescription drugs. Excluding the cost of premiums, drugs account for almost one-third of the elderly's health costs and expenditures. Approximately 10 percent of Medicare beneficiary accounts for nearly half of all drug spending among the elderly. 
   By the year 2007, the Health Care Finance Administration projects that drug costs will make up over eight percent of total health care spending. This compares to 6 percent as recently as 1996. 
   Mr. President, these are all reasons why it is appropriate that as the Federal Government commences its litigation to recover the cost that the Federal Government has expended through programs such as Medicare, that the first use of these funds should be to strengthen Medicare, and the second use should be to commence the funding of a prescription drug benefit. 
   This proposal is receiving the strong support of groups which represent the interests of older Americans. The AARP has officially endorsed the concept of utilizing recoveries from the to be litigation by the Federal Government for purposes of strengthening Medicare and then providing for a prescription drug benefit. 
   The American Association of Retired Persons is a strong voice in support of this proposal. 
   Mr. President, I urge that my colleagues give their support in adopting this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk, which is cosponsored by Senators SNOWE and FEINGOLD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we learned last year that five years of fiscal austerity and economic growth had transformed a $290 billion deficit into the first budget surplus in more than a generation. 
   I am dedicated to strengthening the nation's long-term economic prospects through prudent fiscal policy. 
   This discipline helped to create favorable economic, fiscal, demographic and political conditions to address the long-term Social Security and Medicare deficits that will accompany the aging of our nation's population. 
   These deficits threaten to undo the hard work and fiscal discipline of recent years as well as undermine our potential for future economic growth. 
   But that success did not give the Congress license to return to the free-spending ways of the past--especially since 100 percent of the surplus was the result of surpluses in the Social Security Trust Fund. 
   We owe it to our children and grandchildren to save this money until Social Security's long-term solvency is assured. 
   Unfortunately, Mr. President, the last legislative action of the last Congress made a mockery of our promises to be fiscally disciplined. 
   In the waning hours of last fall's budget negotiations, we passed a $532 billion Omnibus Appropriations Bill. 
   Included in that was $21.4 billion in so-called ``emergency'' spending. 
   Since that $21.4 billion could be approved without offsets, that funding came right out of the surplus--reducing it from $80 billion to $59 billion. 
   That action would have been more palatable had all of the supposedly ``emergency'' funds been allocated for true emergencies. 
   But while some of the $21.4 billion was used to fund what had traditionally been accepted as emergencies--necessary expenditures for sudden, urgent or unforeseen temporary needs--much of it was not. 
   For example, the Y2K computer problem received $3.35 billion. 
   And $100 million went to a new visitors center at the Capitol. 
   These projects might be worthy. They might be mandatory. 
   But to label them ``emergency'' threatens to undermine efforts to safeguard the surplus of Social Security. 
   Even worse, this budgetary slight of hand was also used to increase funding for projects that had been funded in the regular appropriations process. 
   For example, after previously allocating $270.5 billion for defense, Congress provided an additional $8.3 billion in ``emergency'' defense spending in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill. 
   And that's not all. 
   Because these pseudo-emergency spending provisions were included in an Omnibus Appropriations Conference Report, they could not be removed without sending the entire funding package down to defeat. 
   Members of both Houses were left with an unpalatable choice: shut down the government, or steal from our children's and grandchildren's Social Security surplus. 
   Mr. President, that's not a choice. It's a national disgrace. 
   It is vital that we institute an emergency spending process that responds quickly to true emergencies without opening the door to misuse. 
   We must establish procedural safeguards to deter future Congresses from misusing the emergency spending process. 
   We should not attach any emergency spending to non-emergency legislation or designate emergency spending measures that do not meet the definition of an emergency. 
   Mr. President, in February I was pleased to join Senator OLYMPIA SNOWE of Maine in introducing legislation that will protect our newly won budget surplus from false, emergency budgetary alarms. 
   We proposed three reforms. 
   First, to create a point of order, similar to the Byrd Rule, that prevents non-emergency items from being included in emergency spending. 
   This will enable members to challenge the validity of any individual item that is designated an emergency without defeating the entire emergency spending bill. 
   Second, to require a 60-vote super-majority in the Senate for passage of any bill that contains emergency spending, whether it is designated an ``emergency'' spending bill or not. 
   This will encourage Congress to either pay for supplemental appropriations or make sure they represent a true emergency. 
   And third, to make all proposed emergency spending subject to a 60-vote point of order in the Senate. 
   This rule will help to prevent non-emergency items from ever being included in emergency legislation. 
   But even if passed, our legislation will not be the total cure for Congress' budding addiction to emergency spending. 
   In the short term, it is vital that we immediately replenish the surplus with the funds that were ``borrowed'' last fall. 
   On the day after passage of the Omnibus Appropriations Act--October 21, 1998--I wrote the President and asked that the federal government commit itself to restoring funding the the non-traditional ``emergency'' items during this fiscal year. 
   I did not receive a response. 
   So in January, I again wrote to the President and made the same request for a commitment to fiscal discipline. 
   Once again, I have not received a response. 
   And on January 18, 1999, Roll Call published an opinion piece of mine in which I asked the President to address this subject in his State of the Union address. 
   He did not. 
   Fortunately, the United States Constitution says that the Congress need not wait for the President. 
   We can--and must--take the steps necessary to restore the budget surplus to its previous levels. 
   And we must do that now, before the urge to spend the surplus becomes a full-fledged addiction. 
   To that end, tonight I am introducing a Sense of the Senate Resolution that starts the process of rectifying last fall's budgetary process. 
   Its message is simple: Congress and the President should restore those funds that were inappropriately deemed as emergencies and taken from the budget surplus. 
   Mr. President, as we debate the first post-deficit Budget Resolution in more than a quarter-century, it is vital that the American people know that we will maintain the fiscal discipline that has helped to produce our favorable economic climate. 
   Fiscal responsibility means taking responsibility for our mistakes--and ensuring that we do not misuse our emergency spending powers. 
   The next Congress that leaves the door wide open to raids on the surplus will be the one that passes on more debt--and a less secure Social Security system--to our children and grandchildren. 
   Mr. President, we have heard much today--and I particularly commend you and Senator GRAMS of Minnesota for the amendment that you just offered--on the subject of locking up the non-Social Security surplus in excess of that which is currently anticipated. We have considered several proposals throughout the day today. I anticipate other proposals of a similar nature will be considered tomorrow. I believe there is a strong resolve among the Members of the Senate to protect both the Social Security surplus and the non-Social Security surplus and to use it for appropriate purposes. 
   I might say personally that I believe the first use of the money should be to reduce the enormous national debt that we have accumulated over the last 30 years, and I will advocate that be the priority purpose. Unless we first direct our attention to protecting the surplus itself, there won't be anything left, no matter how tightly it is contained in a lockbox to be used for any of these desirable ends. So our first goal must be to focus on how can we protect the surplus itself, and then see that the surplus is used for appropriate purposes. 
   Recently, Senator OLYMPIA SNOWE and myself introduced legislation which was intended to close one of the loopholes which you, Mr. President, have just alluded to. That was a major source of leakage of the surplus as recently as October of last year. That  was the inappropriate use of the so-called ``emergency appropriations account.'' Certainly there are emergencies. We have a policy that where there are emergencies defined as being ``unexpected events,'' particularly of a scale that is beyond the capacity of a local community to appropriately respond without Federal assistance, that for those true emergencies we do not require that there be an offset in spending, or a tax increase to pay for them. The problem is that last October an appropriate public policy for true emergencies was stretched out of recognition by having many other items which had never in the past been thought of as emergencies included in that emergency account, and suddenly over $21 billion was expended. It was expended in a way, Mr. President, because it was included in a conference committee report that was not subject to amendment that was no way to excise, to apply a scalpel to cut out those inappropriate items. 
   The amendment that we are offering in the form of a sense of a Senate would commit this Senate to first analyst those items in that $21 billion emergency expenditure that is outside the traditional definition of an emergency, and we would commit ourselves in this fiscal year and in the next two fiscal years when expenditures of those funds are provided for pursuant to our action in October to find offsets. That is, we would not continue to treat them as emergencies. Just because we made a serious error last fall, we are not committed to continuing to repeat that error this year, next year, and two years from now. 
   Let me just illustrate with this graph why I think focusing on protecting the surplus is so critical. 
   In 1998, we had a total Social Security surplus of the $99 billion. The first thing that came off the top of that $99 billion was that we had a $27 billion deficit in the non-Social Security account. The first use of the Social Security surplus in 1998 was to pay the deficit, and the rest of the budget. Then in addition to that, in 1998, we designated $3 billion as emergency outlays, which meant that we didn't have to either find new taxes to pay for them, or cut spending someplace else 
   to replace these emergency expenditures. They came out of the surplus. What started out as a $99 billion surplus ended up as a $69 billion surplus. So effectively, $30 billion that should have gone to protect the Social Security fund was drained away to pay for deficit elsewhere in the Federal Government, and for emergency accounts. 
   In 1999, we start with a Social Security surplus of $127 billion. Again, the first call on that was to pay the deficit in the rest of the Federal Government, which, fortunately, has significantly shrunk from $27 billion year before to $3 billion in the year 1999. But what ballooned was the emergency account. This is where that October raid on the surplus showed up in our 1999 account with a $13 billion hit against the Social Security surplus. 
   Last year we lost $16 billion that should have gone to protect the solvency of the Social Security fund and was used to fund other Federal deficits, emergencies, a significant proportion of which were emergencies in name only. 
   We have already started to ``cook the cake'' for the year 2000 where we are projecting a non-Social Security deficit of $5 billion. 
   I was pleased with some of the remarks that our Presiding Officer made earlier this evening in which he indicated that maybe when the next estimate of our national fiscal position based on the strength of the economy is made we will in fact not face this $5 billion deficit in fiscal year 2000. I hope his prophesy comes to be. 
   But we also have already added $5 billion by the emergency, so-called emergency, expenditures of October of 1998, to the year 2000 fiscal year. So, with a $138 billion Social Security surplus, we are going to be reducing it by $10 billion to pay off deficits elsewhere and these emergency accounts. 
   So the amendment we are offering states that we commit ourselves that we will first closely scrutinize those items which were listed as an emergency in October of 1998, and for those that do not meet the test of being a true emergency, that we will commit ourselves to find appropriate offsets to pay for those emergencies and not use them as a further raid against the Social Security system and against the surplus which is to provide for its solvency. 
   Mr. President, I anticipate that not only on this legislation but on other legislation which will be presented by the budget and the Governmental Affairs Committee, we will be considering some fundamental changes in the way in which we deal with emergency appropriations so we will not ever repeat the larceny against the Social Security trust fund and against the surpluses which support it that occurred late at night in October of 1998. 
   I urge my colleagues to take the first step towards overcoming the indignity that we committed to the Social Security system last October by committing ourselves to restore to the Social Security surplus those expenditures which were inappropriately listed as emergencies. 
   I urge the adoption of this amendment when it comes before the Senate tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to offer a personal tribute to the countless Americans who personify the finest traditions of charity by giving much-needed humanitarian supplies to the storm-ravaged people of Central America. 
   We are a generous people. For centuries, we have responded to human needs, to end suffering and to help those who were afflicted by the wrath of nature. 
   I have just returned from Central America, where the devastation of Hurricane Mitch is still felt by millions, many of whom are children. In communities throughout this neighboring region, storm victims continue to lack basic food, shelter, clothing and medical care. Damage to roads and bridges hampers the ability to move goods to market, and to transport emergency supplies. 
   As a repeat visitor to Central America since Hurricane Mitch, I can personally attest to the widespread human suffering caused by this fierce storm. But I have also witnessed the outpouring of humanitarian assistance from the United States and its impact in Central America. 
   By any measure, the myriad acts of kindness by the American people to our neighbors in need have been inspirational to all those who deplore the hunger of a child or the suffering of the sick. The list of examples of the humanitarian response to Hurricane Mitch is indeed lengthy, but I would like to cite a few examples. 
   As we paused last fall to celebrate Thanksgiving, a young Floridian named Abhishek Gupta read news accounts of the poor and needy at home and abroad. This high school student, along with other young people, raised thousands of dollars for charities in Florida and to help the victims of Hurricane Mitch in Central America. 
   During the period between Christmas and New Year's Abhishek joined a medical mission to Honduras and Nicaragua, taking food, clothing and medical supplies. 
   Meanwhile, for years the American Nicaraguan Foundation has helped distribute donations in Nicaragua through local outlets, including Catholic relief groups. In response to Hurricane Mitch, the foundation purchased and received food and medicine for victims. 
   With transport help from the U.S. military, these supplies were part of the immediate response in November to hurricane devastation. 
   Rebuilding the hard-hit communities of Central America will be a long-term process, and much work remains to be done. But as we re-commit ourselves this year to continue to help victims of last year's hurricane, we should applaud the multitudes of kind-hearted and dedicated people who have given time and resources to assist our neighbors.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I thank my colleague and Teutonic cousin for his kind remarks and for his comments against this misguided amendment. 
   First, I strongly support the original purpose of this legislation, which is to provide relief to our neighbors in the Central American countries and the Caribbean which were so devastated last year by a series of hurricanes. 
   I had the opportunity to visit Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Dominican Republic which were primarily affected by those hurricanes and can testify that the need is great and that the humanitarian assistance which the United States has already provided, and which this legislation will allow us to continue, has been of immeasurable value and has added to the strength of the relationship between the United States and those affected countries. 
   I also strongly support the tobacco recoupment amendment which was added in the Appropriations Committee by my colleague, the Senator from Texas. In addition to the wisdom of the amendment, there is a sense of urgency to move forward with this. Many State legislatures are meeting as we meet this week. Many of those legislatures are well along toward their adjournment date. Many of those States are awaiting our action on this issue to make a determination as to what is the most appropriate way to utilize funds that have been secured through the tobacco settlement for purposes that will benefit their citizens. 
   We need to resolve this issue and resolve it in a way that has been suggested by the amendment recommended by the Appropriations Committee, which is that the Federal Government keep its hands off this money which has been secured solely as a result of the actions of the States. 
   Let me give a brief history of this issue, with particular focus on the State of Florida, which was one of the first four States to secure an individual settlement with the tobacco industry. 
   Under the leadership of our departed friend and colleague, Lawton Chiles, the Florida Legislature amended its law to allow a specific statute to be passed, under which the State brought litigation against the tobacco industry. At the time that occurred, Governor Chiles wrote a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno suggesting that the Federal Government join in the lawsuit--not join in the lawsuit as it relates to any specific claim, such as the Medicaid claim, but, rather, join in the lawsuit to advance Federal interests that were at stake. I will talk later about what those Federal interests are. 
   This is the letter--and I quote it in part--dated June 
   6, 1995, which was sent from the Attorney General to the Governor of Florida:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. So Mr. President, the first assumption that all this money was generated by Medicaid claims is fundamentally inaccurate. 
   The second assumption, which is that unless Washington acts the States will fritter this money away, is a fundamental assault against the principles of Federalism: That we are a Nation in which political power is divided between the States and the Federal Government, and that we have a respectful appreciation of the responsibility of our State partners. 
   In the case of the State of Florida, through the use of the initial tobacco settlement money, 250,000 children who previously did not have financing for health care now have that financing. That was proposed by former Governor Lawton Chiles. Current Governor Jeb Bush has suggested the establishment of an endowment so that these funds would be protected in perpetuity and the interest earnings from that endowment would be used for 
   a variety of children's and seniors' programs. That not only indicates the care with which the States are using, but the fact that it is a bipartisan issue, the appropriate use of these funds. 
   Let us face it, those State officials, those Governors, those State legislators are just as much accountable to the voters as we are. And should they act in a way that the voters consider to be inappropriate, they will suffer the consequences of those actions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Let me complete my final comments, and then I will yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, what we have at stake here is that the Federal Government is dealing with the wrong issue at the wrong time. It is time for the Federal Government to move on. The way in which the Federal Government should move on is by pursuing its own litigation against the tobacco industry rather than trying to steal a portion of the State settlement. 
   I was, therefore, very pleased that the President, in his State of the Union Message, indicated that it was the intention of the Federal Government to pursue precisely such a course of action. 
   Let me say, Mr. President, that for those of us, like Senator HARKIN and others, who joined last year in an effort to craft a bipartisan tobacco bill, we recognize that the most significant way in which we will reduce teenage smoking is to increase the price of cigarettes. Every other technique to reduce teenage smoking pales in comparison with increasing the price. The Centers for Disease Control has estimated that for every 10-percent increase in the price of cigarettes, there will be a 7-percent reduction in smoking by teenagers. 
   The Federal Government's potential claims against the tobacco industry are much greater than the States. The Medicare Program is much larger than Medicaid. The Federal Government has all the array of antitrust and RICO claims which the States so successfully pursued. 
   What we need to be encouraging the administration to do is to aggressively carry out the direction of the President to effectively bring action against the tobacco industry. And those will be the funds that will be 100 percent under the control of the Federal Government for the purposes that it considers most appropriate. 
   My own feeling is that we ought to use a substantial share of those Federally derived funds from successful litigation against the tobacco industry to add to the solvency of the Medicare trust fund, and then to use a portion of those to assist in financing what the American people desperately want, which is a prescription drug benefit, a major share of which will go to dealing with the illnesses generated by tobacco use. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. So Mr. President, I appreciate the leadership that the Senator from Texas has provided. I appreciate her generosity and time. I urge the defeat of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I understand that we have 1 hour equally divided. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I yield myself 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, my friend and colleague, a friend and colleague who, unfortunately, has recently announced that his next phase of life is going to be someplace other than the Senate, started with the story of where he commenced his campaign to come to the Senate--in the beautiful, unique community of Key West. In addition to Key West's physical proximity to Cuba, Key West also has a history which is very intertwined with the long efforts of the people of Cuba to achieve freedom. 
   It was during the period of the Cuban civil war in the 1870s, 1880s and into the 1890s that many exiles left Cuba and came to Key West to find freedom and a place from which they could relaunch their efforts to achieve freedom in their homeland. 
   Jose Marti spoke many times in Key West to the exiled community of his dreams for a Cuba of independence and freedom. It is in Key West that there is the memorial for the USS Maine, the Tomb of the Unknown Sailor, for over 200 American sailors who were killed in Havana Harbor early in 1898--an event which contributed to the United States eventual declaration of war and involvement in what we refer to as the Spanish-American War. In Key West we find remnants of that long history of the yearning of the people of Cuba to live in freedom and independence. 
   After having won their independence in 1898, 60 years later, it was taken away from them. For four decades, they have lived under the oppressive rule of the dictator, Fidel Castro. 
   Last month, we recognized another dictatorship in this world, one that is not near to us but half a world away. The Senate passed a resolution calling for a condemnation of the human rights situation in China. We urged the United Nations Human Rights Commission to have that on their agenda at their soon-to-be-held meeting in Geneva. With this resolution, Senate Resolution 57, we take a similar position condemning the human rights situation in Cuba which, unfortunately, is considerably worse today than the situation in China. 
   This resolution calls on the President to make every effort to pass a resolution at the upcoming meeting of the United 
   Nations Human Rights Commission condemning Cuba for its abysmal record on human rights. It also calls for the reappointment of a special rapporteur to investigate the human rights situation in Cuba. 
   Last year, for the first time in many years, no resolution on human rights in Cuba was passed by the United Nations Human Rights Commission. Perhaps this hiatus in U.N. condemnation of Cuba was due to the hopes that were raised as a result of the Pope's visit in January of 1998. Unfortunately, if that were the case, there has, in fact, been a significant worsening of the human rights situation in Cuba since the Pope's visit. 
   According to the independent group, Human Rights Watch,  
   As 1998 drew to a close, Cuba's stepped up persecutions and harassments of dissidents, along with its refusal to grant amnesty to hundreds of remaining political prisoners or [to] reform its criminal code, marked a disheartening return to heavy-handed repression.  
   The Cuban Government also recently passed a measure known as Law 80 which criminalizes peaceful, prodemocratic activities and independent journalism, with penalties of up to 20 years in jail. 
   The State Department's Country Report on Human Rights Practices in Cuba for 1998 notes that the government continues to systematically violate the fundamental civil and political rights of its citizens. Human rights advocates and members of independent professional associations, including journalists, economists, doctors, and lawyers are routinely harassed, threatened, arrested, detained, imprisoned and defamed by the government. All fundamental freedoms are denied to citizens. In addition, the Cuban Government severely restricts worker rights, including the right to form independent trade unions, and employs forced labor, including child labor. 
   The most recent example of this horrible repression in Cuba is the trial of four prominent dissidents--Vladimiro Roca, Marta Beatriz Roque, Felix Bonne and Rene Gomez Manzano. They were all charged with sedition. After being detained for over 19 months for peacefully voicing their opinion, the trial of these four brave patriots has drawn international condemnation. To demonstrate the hideous nature of the Castro regime, Marta Beatriz Roque has been ill, believed to be suffering from cancer, and has been denied medical attention during her long period of detention. 
   During the trial, authorities have rounded up scores of other individuals, including journalists and dissidents, and jailed them for the duration of the trial. The trial was conducted in complete secrecy with photographers prevented from even photographing the streets around the courthouse. This trial reminds me of the worst days of Stalinist repression in the Soviet Union. 
   This week, Castro's dictatorship found the four dissidents guilty and sentenced them to terms ranging from 3 1/2 to 5 years--5 years in prison for simply making a statement about democracy. This action has outraged the world. 
   This outrageous spectacle has caused even Castro's closest friends to rethink their relationship with Cuba. Canadian Prime Minister Chretien has indicated that Canada will review its entire relationship with Castro. The European Union issued a strong statement condemning this repression. 
   This is not the type of conduct that we have come to expect in our hemisphere, where Cuba remains the only nondemocratic government. This level of repression and complete disregard for international norms cannot be ignored. I hope that all of our colleagues will join my colleague, Senator MACK, and myself, in condemning the human rights situation in Cuba and calling for action at the United Nations Human Rights Commission. 
   Last month, we voted unanimously to support a resolution condemning human rights in China. Unfortunately, we have within 100 miles of our shores a situation in Cuba that is worse than that halfway around the world in China--a situation that deserves the full effort of our government to assure that it is not ignored by the international community.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the RECORD a letter from the President of the AFL-CIO, John J. Sweeney, directed to Fidel Castro, dated March 5, 1999, condemning the human rights conditions in Cuba. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. There are no other speakers on our side of the aisle, so I also yield back the remainder of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today I join my good friend and colleague Senator CHAFEE in support of the Historic Homeownership Assistance Act. This bill will spur growth and preservation of historic neighborhoods across the country by providing a limited tax credit for qualified rehabilitation expenditures to historic homes. 
   In virtually every corner of this land, homes in which our grandparents and parents grew up, communities and neighborhoods that nurtured vibrant families, schools that were good places to learn and churches and synagogues that were filled on days of prayer, have suffered the ravages of decay. Every year we lose thousands of historic housing units that are either demolished or abandoned. We are losing both physical structures and the historic past that these physical structures represent. 
   The Historic Homeownership Assistance Act will stimulate rehabilitation of historic homes while contributing to the revitalization of urban communities. The Federal tax credit provided in the legislation is modeled after the existing Federal commercial historic rehabilitation tax credit. Since 1981, this commercial tax credit has facilitated the preservation of many historic structures such as Union Station in Washington, DC. In my home state of Florida, the existing Historic Rehabilitation Investment tax credit has resulted in over 300 rehabilitation projects since 1974. These projects range from the restoration of art deco hotels in Miami Beach, to the preservation of Ybor City in Tampa and the Springfield Historic District in Jacksonville. 
   The tax credit, however, has never applied to personal residences. This legislation that Senator CHAFEE and I are cosponsoring is designed to empower the one major constituency that has been barred from using the existing credit--homeowners. It is time we provide this incentive to homeowners to restore and preserve homes in America's historic communities. 
   Like the existing investment credit, this bill would provide a credit to homeowners equal to 20 percent of a qualified rehabilitation expenditures made on an eligible building that is used as a principle residence by the owner. The amount of the credit would be limited to $40,000 for each principal residence. Eligible buildings would be those that are listed individually on the National Register of Historic Places, or a nationally certified state or local register, and contributing buildings in national, state or local historic districts. Recognizing that the states can best administer laws affecting unique communities, 
   the act gives power to the Secretary of the Interior to work with states to implement a number of provisions. 
   The bill also targets Americans at all economic levels. It provides lower income Americans with the option to elect a Mortgage Credit Certificate in lieu of the tax credit. This certificate allows Americans who cannot take advantage of the tax credit to reduce the interest rate on the mortgage that secures the purchase and rehabilitation of a historic home. 
   The credit would also be available for condominiums and co-ops, as well as single-family buildings. If a building were to be rehabilitated by a developer for sale to a homeowner, the credit would pass through to the homeowner. Since one purpose of the bill is to provide incentives for middle-income and more affluent families to return to older towns and cities, the bill does not discriminate among taxpayers on the basis of income. 
   Mr. President, the time has come for Congress to get serious about urban renewal. For too long, we have sat on the sidelines watching idly as our citizens slowly abandoned entire homes and neighborhoods in urban settings, leaving cities like Miami in Florida and others around the nation in financial jeopardy. This legislation affords fiscally stressed cities and towns a way to put abandoned buildings back on the tax rolls, while strengthening their income and sales tax base. It will encourage more affluent families to claim a stake in older towns and neighborhoods. It offers developers, realtors, and homebuilders a new realm of economic opportunity in revitalizing decaying buildings. 
   The Historic Homeownership Assistance Act does not reinvent the wheel. In addition to the existing commercial historic rehabilitation credit, the proposed bill incorporates features from several tax incentives for the preservation of historic homes. Colorado, Maryland, New Mexico, Rhode Island, Wisconsin, and Utah have pioneered their own successful versions of the historic preservation tax incentive for homeownership. 
   At the federal level, this legislation would promote historic home preservation nationwide, allowing future generations of Americans to visit and reside in homes that tell the unique history of our communities. The Historic Homeownership Assistance Act will offer enormous potential for saving historic homes and bringing entire neighborhoods back to life. I urge all my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am extremely pleased to join with my distinguished colleague from Florida, Senator MACK, in introducing the Florida Federal Judgeship Act of 1999. This legislation will create seven additional U.S. District Court judgeships in Florida--two in the Southern District and five--in the fast-growing Middle District of Florida. 
   I want to thank Senator ORRIN HATCH, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, for his recognition of the overcrowding problem facing Florida's federal district courts and for his good-faith pledge to work with Senator GRASSLEY to consider this issue early this year. I look forward to working with all my Senate colleagues in considering this important issue. 
   Because our number of judgeships is too small to meet the increasing demand of Florida's rapidly growing population, judges face overwhelming caseloads. Prosecutors and law-enforcement personnel are stymied in their efforts to mete out swift justice. Civil litigants are forced to endure unreasonable waits to bring their cases to resolution. 
   Mr. President, make no mistake: Florida's federal courts are in the midst of a full-blown crisis. Prominent legal and judicial officials all over Florida have told us that this is not a tenable situation. But Floridians are not alone in their concern about overcrowded court dockets in the Southern and Middle Districts of Florida. Yesterday, March 16th, the Judicial Conference of the United States--the principal policy-making body of the federal judiciary, which is chaired by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and composed of federal judges from throughout the United States--asked Congress to create 33 permanent and 25 temporary additional district judgeships. Senator MACK and I are introducing our bill so that Congress can meet the needs of Florida by providing the additional judicial resources needed for these two U.S. District Courts to meet their increasing caseload. 
   On three previous occasions since 1976, Congress has authorized new Federal judgeships in numbers that each time exceeded the request of the Judicial Conference thus recognizing the dire needs of our court systems. The last recommendation, made in March of 1997, followed recommendations that were unheeded in September of 1992 and September of 1994. There have simply been no new judgeships since December 1, 1990. We cannot allow this new request to go unheeded again. 
   Mr. President, many states have justifiable concerns about overcrowded federal district court dockets. However the urgent nature of Florida's judicial crisis makes our state a special case. Its Southern and Middle Districts deserve immediate attention for three main reasons. 
   First, Florida has one of the highest caseloads per judge in the nation, a condition that has continued to worsen over the last year. Currently, the Judicial Conference has proposed 
   all recommendations for increased judgeship based on weighted filings--a number that takes into account both the total number of cases filed per judge and the average level of case complexity. Currently the standard for each Federal district judge is 430 weighted cases per year. When the caseload exceeds 430, that district is entitled to be reviewed for purposes of an additional judge. 
   As of September 30, 1998, the Southern District's weighted filings stood at 608 per judge. This is 41 percent above the standard and 18 percent above the national average of 516 weighted filing per judge. In the Middle District, the story was even worse--805 weighted filings per judge, a figure that ranks sixth highest in the entire nation. Middle District's weighted filings per judge from September 1996 to September 1998, a two year period, jumped from 45 percent above the standard to 87 percent above the standard and 56 percent above the national average. 
   As of January 30, 1999, over 1,100 criminal defendants have cases pending in the Middle District. The story is even worse on the civil side of the docket, where more than 5,900 cases have yet to receive final disposition. Florida's caseload isn't going to experience a slowdown in growth anytime soon, and the judicial backlog will get worse unless Congress takes preventative action for the long-term. 
   Second, this legislation recognizes that Florida's largest federal judicial districts are responsible for a massive area that includes nearly 80 percent of Florida residents. Last year the state's population reached 15 million, growing 15.9 percent since the 1990 census of 12.9 million. The Southern and Middle Districts combined jurisdiction stretches from key West--the southernmost city in the continental United States--north to include Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, Melbourne, Fort Myers, Sarasota, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando, and Jacksonville. 
   Between 1980 and 1995, the Middle District grew by a whopping 52%. It is expected to increase by an addition 21% in the next decade. However, since 1990, the last time the Judicial Conference recommended and Congress approved more judges for Florida, our U.S. District Courts have not received any additional resources from the federal government to cope with that growth. 
   Third, this proposal will assist the work of law enforcement officials and personnel. If we are committed to ensuring that criminals face punishment in a swift manner, we must be willing to provide resources to all aspects of the judicial system. 
   In both of these districts, drug prosecutions and other serious criminal cases make up a large percentage of the overall caseload. For example, both the Southern and Middle Districts contain High intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HITDAs). These anti-drug zones generate a substantial number of lengthy, multi-defendant prosecutions, and the additional of judges will help law enforcement officials and prosecutors in their fight against drug crimes. 
   In addition, federal prosecutors and law enforcement officials throughout Florida, but especially in the Southern District, are being forced to spend more time combatting the cheats, 
   fly-by-night operators, and other criminals who are engaged in a systematic campaign to defraud Medicare and other health care programs. It has been estimated that nearly twenty percent of all Medicare dollars spent in South Florida are lost to fraud. In fact, nearly 30 percent of all Medicare fraud nationwide takes place in Florida. 
   Mr. President, it is vital that we act quickly to resolve this crisis. From 1990, in Middle District, and 1993, in Southern District, the total number of filings have gone up 62 percent. With a state population growth rate predicted to exceed 300,000 residents per year, these trends are unlikely to reverse. The addition of these judgeships will still leave both districts well above the weighted filings per judgeship standard. 
   U.S. Federal District Courts are the first stop for all citizens involved in the federal judicial system. Most federal cases are disposed at this level and  it is essential that these citizens have their claims heard in a timely manner. Congress and the White House must be vigilant in their shared responsibility for recommending, nominating, and confirming federal judicial nominees. Senator HATCH's leadership, and his determination to address Florida's special needs, are very much appreciated by the residents of our state. 
   Our legislation is simple, sound, and will serve the interests of all Floridians. I look forward to working with Senator MACK and members of the Judiciary Committee on this matter. I urge all my colleagues to support the passage of this much needed legislation. Further delay in this matter will only serve to deny timely justice for thousands of crime victims and civil litigants in Florida's Southern and Middle Judicial Districts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I wish to express my thanks and admiration to my colleague from Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, last week, the Senate passed a resolution calling for condemnation of the human rights situation in China by the United Nations Human Rights Commission. I will send to the floor shortly a similar resolution condemning the human rights situation in Cuba which, unfortunately, is considerably worse than the situation in China. 
   This resolution calls on the President to make every effort to pass a resolution at the upcoming meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Commission criticizing Cuba for its abysmal record on human rights. It also calls for the reappointment of a special rapporteur to investigate the human rights situation in Cuba. 
   Last year, for the first time in many years, no resolution on the human rights situation in Cuba was passed by the United Nations Human Rights Commission. Perhaps this was due to the hopes that were raised, raised as a result of the Pope's visit to Cuba in January of 1998. Unfortunately, there has been a significant worsening of the human rights situation in Cuba over the last year. 
   Example: The independent group, Human Rights Watch, states:  
   As 1998 drew to a close, Cuba's stepped up persecutions and harassment of dissidents, along with its refusal to grant amnesty to hundreds of remaining political prisoners or reform its criminal code, marked a disheartening return to heavy-handed repression.  
   Example: The Cuban Government recently passed a measure known as Law 80 which criminalizes peaceful prodemocratic activities and independent journalism, with penalties, Mr.  President, of up to 20 years of imprisonment. 
   Example: The State Department, in its recent report on human rights dated February 26, 1999, notes that the Government of Cuba continues to systematically violate the fundamental civil and political rights of its citizens. Human rights advocates and members of independent professional associations, including journalists, economists, doctors and lawyers, are routinely harassed, threatened, arrested, detained, imprisoned and defamed by the Government. All fundamental freedoms are denied to the citizens. In addition, the Cuban Government severely restricts worker rights, including the right to form independent trade unions, and employs forced labor, including child labor. 
   Example, and the most recent and continuing example of the horrible repression in Cuba, is the trial of four prominent dissidents--Vladimiro Roca, Marta Beatriz Roque, Felix Bonne, and Rene Gomez Manzano. These prominent dissidents are now at trial on charges of sedition. After being detained for over 18 months for the peaceful voicing of their opinions, the trial of these four brave individuals has drawn international condemnation. 
   To demonstrate the hideous nature of the Castro regime, Marta Beatriz Roque has been ill, believed to be suffering from cancer, but has been denied medical attention during her detention. 
   During the trial, authorities have rounded up scores of other individuals, including journalists and dissidents, and jailed them for the duration of the trial. The trial was conducted in complete secrecy, with photographers prevented from even photographing the streets around the courthouse in which 
   the trial was held. 
   Mr. President, this is not the type of conduct that we have come to expect in our hemisphere, where Cuba remains the only nondemocratic government. This level of repression and complete disregard for international norms cannot be ignored. The human rights situation in Cuba calls out for action by the United Nations Human Rights Commission. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues Senators CHAFEE, ROBB, and MIKULSKI, to introduce the Emergency Medical Services Act of 1999. Americans today are routinely denied coverage by their managed care plans for visits to the emergency department for legitimate emergency medical conditions. This legislation establishes a national definition, known as the prudent layperson standard, for the purposes of receiving emergency room treatment. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 applied this definition to the Medicaid and Medicare programs. The proposal would simply ensure that all private health plans afford their consumers the same kinds of protections available to Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Mr. President, current law places patients in the unreasonable position of fearing that payment for emergency room visits will be denied even when conditions appear to both the patient and emergency room personnel to require urgent treatment. For example, a patient who is experiencing chest pains and believes that she is having a heart attack may not be covered by a health plan if the diagnosis later turns out to be indigestion. Enactment of the ``prudent layperson'' definition would end this phenomena by ensuring coverage when a reasonable person, who believes that she is in need of care, presents herself at an emergency room and is treated. 
   Federal law, the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA), already requires that all persons who come to a hospital for emergency care be given a screening examination to determine if they are experiencing a medical emergency, and if so, that they receive stabilizing treatment before being discharged or moved to another facility. As a result, emergency, room doctors and hospitals face a catch-22. Practitioners are required 
   by EMTALA and their own professional ethics to perform diagnostic tests and exams to rule out emergency conditions, but may be denied reimbursement due to HMO prior authorization requirements or a finding after diagnosis that the condition was not of an emergency. 
   This legislation also provides a process for the coordination of post-stabilization care. Consider this example: a patient goes into the emergency room complaining of chest pains, in an obvious emergent condition. Subsequently, the chest pains subside, therefore, the patient is considered clinically ``stabilized.'' However, this does not mean that the patient is out of danger. At that point the emergency room physician may recommend a follow up test, such as an EKG, but is frequently unable to get the health plan to authorize any follow-up care. 
   This portion of the bill would require that treating emergency physicians and health plans timely communicate with each other to determine what the necessary post-stabilization care should be. Health plans, in conjunction with the treating physician, may arrange for an alternative treatment plan that allows the health plan to assume care of the patient after stabilization. For instance, the plan may recommend that the patient by transferred to an in-network hospital, or it may agree to cover the tests recommended by the emergency room physician. 
   Our legislation has been strongly endorsed by Kaiser Permanente, one of our nation's oldest, largest, and most respected managed care plans, and the American College of Emergency Physicians. The legislation has also received the strong support of the American Osteopathic Association, the Federation of American Health Systems, and the National Council of Senior Citizens, among many others. 
   I would ask that my colleagues join us in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today along with Senators GRASSLEY, KERREY, DEWINE, TORRICELLI, and HUTCHISON to introduce the Public School Construction Partnership Act. As teachers, students, parents, and school administrators know, the United States faces a school infrastructure crisis. Many of our schools are more than 50 years old and crumbling, and the General Accounting Office estimates that it will cost about $112 billion to bring them into good repair. Moreover, this estimate does not take into account the need for new construction. The U.S. Department of Education projects that some 1.9 million more students will be entering schools in the next 10 years. At current prices, it will cost about $73 billion to build the new schools needed to educate this growing student population. Mr. President, I might add that my own State is gaining 60,000 new students each year. By the end of the decade, Florida's student enrollment will have increased 25 percent more than the population as a whole. 
   Education is rightfully a state and local matter, but the federal government can play a helpful, non-intrusive role in assisting communities overwhelmed by explosive increases in student enrollment. We at the federal level should help empower local school districts to find innovative, cost effective ways to finance new schools and repair aging ones. 
   The bill I am introducing today with Senator GRASSLEY provides new flexibility to state and local efforts to finance new schools and repair older ones. I believe that we should be providing a ``cafeteria plan'' of options to choose from in order to enable local and state governments to have a variety of financing tools available to them. An innovative means of financing the building or renovation of a school in an urban area like Miami won't necessarily be the best option for a rural town in Iowa. Therefore, our legislation provides four different alternatives to ease the burden of financing public school construction. 
   One alternative is to add educational facilities to the list of 12 types of facilities that can use private activity bonds. As you can see, these bonds are used to finance a wide range of public projects: from airports and mass commuting facilities, to qualified residential rental projects and environmental enhancements of hydroelectric generating facilities. 
   The importance of adding public educational facilities to this list is that these bonds would be tax exempt. And I emphasize the word public because private non-profit elementary and secondary schools already have the ability to issue tax-exempt facility bonds. Public schools should have the same tax treatment. Our legislation gives public schools parity with private schools. 
   The public/private partnership in school construction through the use of private activity bonds is already being used in the Canadian Province of Nova Scotia. Here is how it works: a private corporation builds the school and leases it to the school district at a reduced rate. The private entity supplements the cost of the building by leasing it for other uses during non-school hours. 
   This approach has been a success. According to a study by Ron Utt at the Heritage Foundation, 41 new schools have either been completed or approved for construction under the Public/Private 
   Partnership Program. In the next three years, Nova Scotia expects to replace 10 percent of its schools through such partnerships. 
   I am optimistic that enabling communities in the United States to have the same opportunity will foster the same results. 
   Another portion of this legislation would help relieve some of the burdens on small and rural school districts. 
   Current law relieves small issuers of tax-exempt bonds for qualified school construction from onerous federal arbitrage regulations, but more relief is needed. The calculations required to determine the amount of arbitrage rebate are extremely complex and often require that a local government hire an outside consultant. Despite the trouble and expense of compliance, rebate amounts are usually quite small. Local governments sometimes spend much more to comply with the rebate rules than the amount actually rebated to the Treasury. 
   This legislation would permit school districts to keep funds earned on bond proceeds instead of reimbursing the Treasury Department if the bonds offered by the district totalled less than $15 million that year, or if the bonds are spent within four years. 
   Our legislation would also increase the amount of bonds banks can hold and still receive tax exempt status. Currently, banks may deduct their interest expense for loans if the bonds are less than $10 million in a one year period. We would increase that limit to $25 million, allowing school bonds to be bought directly by the banks without having to undertake the complexities of accessing the public capital markets. 
   Changing these current tax laws would help local school districts throughout the United States. Our legislation would foster even more innovative approaches to finance the building and refurbishment of our public schools. Such public-private partnerships would speed construction of new schools and reduce costs to communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to commend Senator GRASSLEY, Chairman ROTH and Senator MOYNIHAN for their bipartisan commitment to protect our nation's seniors from indiscriminate dumping by their nursing homes. I would like to request that their statements be added to the RECORD. 
   The Nursing Home Residential Security Act of 1999 has the support of the  nursing home industry and senior citizen advocates. It is with their support that we encourage the Senate to take action on this important piece of legislation. I also have letters of support from the American Health Care Association, the National Seniors Law Center, and the American Association for Retired Persons which I will include in the RECORD. 
   Mr. President, last year, it looked like 93-year-old Adela Mongiovi might have to spend her 61st Mother's Day away from the assisted living facility that she had called home for the last four years. Her son Nelson and daughter-in-law Geri feared that they would have to move Adela when officials at the Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center of Tampa told them that their Alzheimer's Disease-afflicted mother would have to be relocated so that the nursing home could complete ``renovations.'' 
   As the Mongiovis told me when I met with them and visited their mother in Tampa last April, the real story far exceeded their worst fears. The supposedly temporary relocation was actually a permanent eviction of all 52 residents whose housing and care were paid for by the Medicaid program. Ms. Mongiovi passed away during the holiday season and I send my heartfelt condolences to her family. 
   The nursing home chain which owns the Tampa facility and several others across the United States wanted to purge its nursing homes of Medicaid residents, ostensibly to take more private insurance payers and Medicare beneficiaries which pay more per resident. 
   This may have been a good financial decision in the short run, however, its effects on our nation's senior citizens, if practiced on a widespread basis, would be even more disastrous. 
   In an April 7, 1998, Wall Street Journal article, several nursing home executives argued that state governments and Congress are to blame for these evictions because they have set Medicaid reimbursements too low. While Medicaid payments to nursing homes may need to be revised, playing Russian roulette with elderly patients' lives is hardly the way to send that message to Congress. And while I am willing to engage in a discussion as to the equity of nursing home reimbursement rates, my colleagues and I are not willing to allow nursing home facilities to dump patients indiscriminately. 
   The fact that some nursing home companies are willing to sacrifice elderly Americans for the sake of their bottom-line is bad enough. What is even worse is their attempt to evade blame for Medicaid evictions. The starkest evidence of this shirking of responsibility is found in the shell game many companies play to justify evictions. Current law allows nursing homes to discharge patients for inability to pay. 
   If a facility decreases its number of Medicaid beds, state and federal governments are no longer allowed to pay the affected residents' bills. They can then be conveniently and unceremoniously dumped for--you guessed it--their inability to pay. 
   Nursing home evictions have a devastating effect on the health and well-being of some of society's most vulnerable members. A recent University of Southern California study indicated that those who are uprooted from their homes undergo a phenomenon knows as ``transfer trauma.'' For these seniors, the consequences are stark. The death rate among these seniors is two to three times higher than that for individuals who receive continuous care. 
   Those of us who believe that our mothers, fathers, and grandparents are safe because Medicaid affects only low-income Americans need to think again. A three year stay in a nursing home can cost upwards of $125,000. As a result, nearly half of all nursing home residents who enter as privately-paying patients exhaust their personal savings and lose health insurance coverage during their stay. Medicaid becomes many retirees' last refuge of financial support. 
   On April 19, 1998, the Florida Medicaid Bureau responded to evidence of Medicaid dumping in Tampa by levying a steep $260,000 fine against the Tampa nursing home. That was a strong and appropriate action, but it was only a partial solution. Medicaid funding is a shared responsibility of states and the federal government. 
   While the most egregious incident occurred in Florida, Medicaid dumping is not just a Florida problem. Nursing homes which were once locally-run and family-owned are increasingly administered by multi-state, multi-facility corporations that have the power to affect seniors across the United States. 
   Mr. President, let me also point out that the large majority of nursing homes in America treat residents well and are responsible community citizens. Our bill is simple and fair and designed to prevent future abuses by bad actors. It would prohibit current Medicaid beneficiaries or those who ``spend down'' to Medicaid from being evicted from their homes. 
   Adele Mongiovi was not just a ``beneficiary.'' She was also a mother and grandmother. To Ms. Mongiovi, the Rehabilitation and Health Care Center of Tampa was not just an ``assisted living facility''--it was her home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Mr. Colton Campbell, Mr. Bryan Giddings, Ms. Lisa Page, and Ms. Marilyn Lewis of my staff be afforded the privilege of the floor during the duration of my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleagues to introduce the Highway Innovation and Cost Savings Act of 1999. As you know, last year on June 9, President Clinton signed into law, the Transportation Equity Act of 1998. TEA 21 established many new programs, and a new budget treatment for highways. Throughout the debate on TEA 21, I always focused on one goal: to be able to promise my constituents that by 2003, the last year of TEA 21, our roads and bridges would be in better shape than they are today. In 1991, when ISTEA passed, I was not able to make that pledge, because I knew that the United States Department of Transportation had already estimated that the level of funding in the ISTEA bill would not close the gap between highway needs and money to meet those needs. 
   TEA 21 was a landmark piece of legislation. TEA 21 established a new budget category for funding the highway program which calls for funding levels each year to match the intake of gas taxes the year prior. This will be the first year we test the philosophy that we can commit to spending user fees exclusively to keep up the system. Unfortunately, this amount of funding is still not enough to maintain the quality of roads in Florida or any other state. Traditional grant programs will not be able to ever meet the infrastructure needs of the nation. We must look at innovative solutions to our congestion problems. We need to use innovative methods to finance construction projects. We need to get the private sector involved in transportation improvements. 
   The distinguished Chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee and I worked very hard to develop and implement an innovative financing program called transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA). TIFIA was incorporated into TEA 21 and is now being implemented by the United States Department of Transportation. The program  will extend federal credit to major, high cost transportation projects so as to enhance the project's ability to acquire private credit. The TIFIA program authorizes $530 million to be extended in federal credit over six years. The $530 million can be used to leverage up to $10.6 billion in private loans and lines of credit. The TIFIA program offers the sponsors of major transportation projects a means to amplify federal resources up to twenty times. The objectives of the program are to stimulate additional nonfederal investment in our Nation's infrastructure, and encourage private sector participation in transportation projects. 
   Mr. President, I am very excited about the prospects for the TIFIA program. I believe that Congress must continue to look for new and innovative ways to meet our nation's infrastructure needs. I believe the bill we are introducing today, the Highway Innovation and Cost Savings Act of 1999 (HICSA), will be another tool in the financing toolbox. HICSA creates a pilot program which allows tax-exempt financing for up to 15 transportation projects. The amount of bonds issued under the pilot will be limited to $15 billion. The projects for the pilot will be selected by the Secretary on Transportation based on numerous criteria. 
   HICSA will encourage more private sector investment in highway and bridge construction by making lower cost, tax-exempt financing available. Under current law, other forms of public infrastructure, such as airports and seaports, are eligible for tax-exempt debt financing for projects with private capital. Highway, bridge, and tunnel projects are not eligible for this type of financing. Increasing the private sector's role in major highway projects will not only help to close the needs gap, but will also open the door for new cost saving techniques in construction and the use of new technologies. 
   U.S. companies continually invest billions of dollars in foreign infrastructure projects, but have only participated in only a few projects in the United States. Why should American companies feel the need to invest their money overseas, when the United States is in such desperate need of funds for roads. American companies want to invest in American infrastructure. HICSA will demonstrate the benefits of private sector involvement in infrastructure projects, and will finally establish the private sector as an honored partner in building the road to the 21st century. 
   Mr. President, I want to be able to travel to Florida and tell my constituents that in 2003, their roads and bridges will be in better shape than they are today. I believe with the combination of TEA 21 traditional grant funding, new programs like TIFIA, and clearing hurdles in the tax code with HICSA, we will be well on our way. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee to pass this much needed legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, earlier today our colleague, Senator SNOWE of the State of Maine, introduced legislation, of which both I and Senator VOINOVICH of the State of Ohio are the cosponsors, relating to reforms in the emergency appropriations law. Mr. President, I would like to discuss the rationale for this legislation. 
   Mr. President, we received some good news just a few months ago. We learned that after 5 years of fiscal austerity and economic growth, we had transformed a $290-billion annual deficit into the first budget surplus in more than a generation. 
   I am dedicated to strengthening the Nation's long-term economic prospects through prudent fiscal policy. The discipline that helped us to create favorable economic, fiscal, demographic, and political conditions to address the long-term Social Security and Medicare deficits that will accompany the aging of our population will be fully required if we are to meet these challenges. These deficits threaten to undo the hard work and fiscal discipline of recent years, as well as to undermine our potential for future economic growth. 
   But that success, the success that we had in converting a $290-billion annual deficit into this year's surplus, did not give to Congress a license to return to the free-spending ways of the past. That absence of license is especially true since over 100 percent of the surplus was the result of surpluses in the Social Security trust fund. 
   I say over 100 percent because the only surplus we had is Social Security, and a portion of that surplus is still being applied to the deficit that is being run in the general accounts, a deficit which will continue for the next 2 to 3 years. We owe it to our children and our grandchildren to save this Social Security-generated surplus until Social Security's long-term solvency is assured. 
   As you know, what we have been doing for the last 30 years is asking our grandchildren to pay our credit card bill. Now what we are saying to our grandchildren is that we are going to give them a secure Social Security system that will last for our generation, for their parents' generation, and for their generation--to the year 2075. 
   Unfortunately, both the last legislative action of the 105th Congress and the first legislative action passed by the Senate in the 106th Congress have made a mockery of our promise to our grandchildren. Last night the Senate passed a military pay bill without simultaneously approving a way to fund it, an action that, if not corrected in the conference committee, could subtract as much as $17 billion from our children's and grandchildren's chances of having a secure Social Security system. 
   I wish I could say that last night's vote was an aberration, nothing more than a momentary lapse of judgment, an inadvertent mistake in the haste to turn from impeachment to legislation. Sadly, I cannot make that claim. It is the second time in less than 4 months that we have proven ourselves willing to sacrifice future generations' well-being on the altar of immediate expediency. 
   In the waning hours of last fall's budget negotiations, mid-October 1998, we passed a $532-billion omnibus appropriations bill. Included in that $532 billion was $21.4 billion in so-called emergency spending. Since that $21.4 billion could be approved without having to find an offsetting funding source, those $21.4 billion came directly out of the surplus. 
   Some of you who might have been making speeches to the effect that we were going to have an $80-billion surplus at the end of the last fiscal year therefore had to strike out ``80'' and insert ``59'' as the amount of surplus we would have, because that was the figure that remained after we had paid out of the Social Security surplus for $21.4 billion in emergencies. 
   That action would have been possibly more palatable had all of that $21.4 billion been allocated to true emergencies, to those kinds of incidents which in the past Congress has recognized as being appropriate to not require an offset in spending or increase in revenue. While some of the $21.4 billion was used to fund what have traditionally been accepted as emergencies, defined as necessary expenditures for sudden, urgent, or unforeseen temporary needs, much of the $21.4 billion was not. Let me give some examples. 
   The Y2K computer problem, the problem that at the turn of the millennium our computers might be rendered inoperative because of the failure to account for the new century, received $3.35 billion of the $21.4 billion. It is hard to argue that it took us until October of 1998, and then under urgent duress circumstances, to wake up to the fact that the millennium was coming and that there might be a problem with our computers. In fact, here in the Senate, our colleagues in the House of Representatives and in the executive branch, as well as in the private sector community and State and local governments, had been aware of and working on this problem long before October of 1998. 
   Another smaller example of a nonemergency emergency was $100 million that was appropriated for a new visitors center here at the Capitol. A new visitors center has been under consideration for a decade or more--hardly an emergency that just came to our attention in October of 1998. 
   These expenditures might have been desirable, might have been appropriate, but to label them ``emergency,'' and therefore remove them from the fiscal discipline requiring offsetting spending or additional revenue to support them, threatens to undermine the safeguards that we have built in to protect our Social Security surplus.  
   This budgetary sleight-of-hand was also used to increase funding for projects that had already been funded through the traditional appropriations process. For example, after previously allocating $270.5 billion to the Department of Defense in the emergency appropriations provision without any offsetting spending reductions or revenue increases, Congress provided an additional $8.3 billion in ``emergency'' defense spending in the omnibus appropriations bill. 
   That is not all. Because these pseudoemergency spending provisions were included in an omnibus appropriations conference report--that is, a bill that was the result of reconciliation of differences between the Senate and the House--then, under the normal rules governing a conference report, that legislation was not subject to amendment. Therefore, there could be no motion made that would have removed, reduced, or otherwise modified the provisions that were labeled as ``emergency appropriations.'' 
   Members of the Congress were left with an unpalatable choice: Shut down the Government in mid-October of 1998 by failure to pass this significant appropriations bill that covered approximately one-third of the Federal budget, or steal from our children's and grandchildren's Social Security surplus. Mr. President, that is not a choice; that is a national disgrace. It is vital that we institute an emergency spending process that responds expeditiously to true emergencies without maintaining this open door to abuse. We must establish procedural safeguards to deter future Congresses from misusing the emergency spending procedures. We should not attach, as an example, any emergency spending to nonemergency legislation. 
   We should not designate emergency spending measures that do not meet our own definition of an emergency. 
   Mr. President, as I indicated earlier, I am pleased to join with Senator OLYMPIA SNOWE of Maine in introducing legislation that will protect our newly won budget surplus from false emergency budgetary alarms. Senators SNOWE, VOINOVICH and I are introducing the Surplus Protection Act to amend the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974. This will limit consideration of nonemergency matters in emergency legislation. 
   Specifically, we propose the following three reforms: First, to create a point of order, similar to the Byrd rule which currently exists, that prevents nonemergency items from being included in emergency spending. This will enable Members to challenge the validity of any individual item that is designated an emergency without defeating the entire emergency spending bill. 
   Second, we would require a 60-vote supermajority in the Senate for passage of any bill that contains emergency spending, whether it is designated an emergency spending bill or not. This will encourage Congress to either pay for supplemental appropriations or make certain that they do, in fact, represent a true emergency, as that term has been defined. 
   And third, to make all proposed emergency spending subject to a 60-vote point of order in the Senate. This rule will help to prevent nonemergency items from ever being included in emergency legislation by providing a forum in which they can be appropriately challenged on the Senate floor. 
   Even if passed, our legislation would not be the total cure for Congress' apparent addiction to emergency spending. In the short term, it is vital that we immediately replenish the surplus with the funds that were ``borrowed'' last fall. 
   Let me repeat that, Mr. President. We have a challenge before us in the next few weeks to recoup to the Social Security surplus those funds that were improvidently labeled as emergency spending and thus became the means by which the Social Security surplus was raided last October. We will face that challenge when we deal with the budget resolution and subsequent appropriations bills. 
   The day after the passage of the Omnibus Appropriations Act on October 21, 1998, I wrote the President and asked that the Federal Government commit itself to restoring funding for the nontraditional ``emergency'' items which were included in that omnibus legislation. I must state with disappointment that I have not yet received a response. So, in January, I again wrote to the President and made the same request for a commitment to fiscal discipline. Once again, I have not received a response. 
   On January 18, 1999, Roll Call published an opinion piece which I had written in which I asked the President to address this subject in his State of the Union Address. Mr. President, he did not. 
   Fortunately, the U.S. Constitution says that the Congress need not wait for the President. We can and must take steps necessary to restore the budget surplus to its previous levels, and we must do that now, before the urge to spend the surplus becomes a full-fledged addiction. 
   We must also realistically fund existing emergency accounts. While the Congress cannot anticipate the precise nature or cost of future emergencies, we do know that emergencies will occur. For instance, Congress prospectively budgets an annual amount not to exceed $320 million in emergency funding for the Federal Emergency Management Agency disaster relief fund. That is the good news. Now the bad news. 
   Over the past 12 years, the average emergency outlays from the Federal Emergency Management Agency disaster relief fund have exceeded by $1.7 billion per year. What we have consistently done is underfund the account based on 12 years of experience, so that we have mandated that we are going to have unfunded emergencies. It would be as if homeowners consistently underinsured their homes or the contents of their homes, knowing that when the disaster struck, they were not going to have sufficient funds to rebuild or to recoup their losses. 
   If we are to save the surplus of Social Security, Congress should stop systematically underfunding the emergency accounts and, thus, shifting anticipated emergency spending off budget. We should require emergency accounts to be funded through the normal appropriations process based on our historical experience. 
   Mr. President, I join Senator SNOWE in the hopes that our colleagues will support this important legislation. It is vital that we assure that we do not misuse our emergency spending powers. The next Congress that leaves the door wide open to raids on the surplus will be the one that passes on more debt and a less secure future for our children and our grandchildren. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I have some remarks to make on the bill itself, and I would like to join in commending my good friend, Senator WARNER, for the leadership that he has already provided to raise America's attention to the status of our military, to the demands that are being placed upon it around the world, and the need to be able to recruit and retain the best quality American men and women in order to sustain those missions. 
   I am pleased that Senator WARNER and his committee, as well as the President, have sent forward proposals to assist us in dealing with this issue. I stand ready to support serious and responsible proposals. Also, I must, however, join in many of the comments that have just been made by our colleague from Oklahoma, Senator NICKLES, about specific components of this proposal which are troubling. But it is to a different set of issues that I want to direct my attention, and that is the issue of fiscal discipline in this legislation because I fear that this bill ignores the budgetary rules and principles of fiscal responsibility which we have relied upon to guide us to this first balanced budget that we have had in over 30 years. 
   I am concerned that as we take the action that is called for in this bill we would be reverting to a path of history which got this country into very serious trouble. It was in the early 1980s, Mr. President, that we had then a Republican in the White House and we had Democrats in control of the House of Representatives. Both parties decided that they wanted to support a tax cut for the American people. It was very popular. The result was that the Republican President and the Democratic House of Representatives got into a frenzy to see who could one-up the other in terms of the larger tax cut. And the consequence was that we had a tax cut which went beyond what either side had initially thought was prudent and which some 15 years later resulted in the United States having almost a $6 trillion deficit--a $6 trillion national debt. 
   I hear echoes of that 1980s debate here today as we have the President offering one set of proposals for significant enhancement in military compensation and pension and retirement, and now we have a Congress of another party outbidding the President in those same areas of compensation and pension and retirement. The echoes I hear today are not just from the early 1980s. They are from as recent as last October. 
   We will recall we adjourned, for all practical purposes, but still with a major piece of undone business in October of 1998, and that undone business was a substantial number of the appropriations bills which had not passed through the normal process of consideration in the two Houses, conference committees, and final vote and signature into law by the President. And so during the days of October when most of us were back in our home States, we had this gigantic, what Senator BYRD has referred to as a monstrosity of an appropriations bill, and inserted into that monstrosity was the most monstrous, in my opinion, of its provisions which was an emergency spending provision. 
   Emergency spending under the Budget Act has always been given special consideration because we are dealing with a narrow set of unexpected events that had traumatic adverse consequences on some of our people. It might be a flood or a hurricane or an earthquake or other type of disaster. The special provision of that emergency appropriation is unlike all other spending in the Federal Government; it didn't have to meet the rules of fiscal discipline. You didn't have to find an offset, another source of spending to reduce or a tax to increase to pay for emergency spending. 
   But we have been fairly disciplined in the use of that emergency appropriation provision, and it had served the Nation well until October of 1998 when out of this monstrous appropriations bill comes an emergency spending provision of almost $22 billion--$22 billion of emergency spending, a third to a half of it in items that had never been of the type that had warranted emergency spending designation. But when we came back here for a 1-day session in mid-October we were faced with the prospect of voting up or down on this monstrosity, including the emergency spending, or throwing the Government into fiscal chaos. And so reluctantly many of us, including myself, voted for that provision. We did a very serious error to our Nation's commitment to fiscal responsibility through that legislation and particularly through the emergency appropriation. 
   What concerns me, Mr. President, is that was the last act of the 105th Congress. Now what is about to be the first act after having completed our role as triers in an impeachment trial, what is our first legislative act of the 106th Congress? It is going to be to pass legislation that is even to a greater degree than that emergency appropriation an unfunded expenditure of the Federal Government. We are proposing to pass a bill which at the time it was introduced had slightly over $14 billion of unfunded direct outlays or reductions in receipts and which now by virtue of amendments adopted in the committee and on the floor has added another $2.5 billion of unfunded costs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, if I may? 
   Mr. Chairman, it is my intention, as soon as we verify the additional unfunded amendments which we have in committee and on the floor, and therefore have a total of the extent of unfunded outlays under S. 4, to then offer an amendment which will be sufficient to cover the full extent of those unfunded items. I have not yet sent up that amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I have not yet sent up that amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-4-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, earlier this afternoon I made some remarks consistent with those that have just been made by the Senator from Michigan concerning the fact that we were,  as the first legislative action of the 106th Congress, about to pass a bill that was substantially unfunded, therefore creating not only the risk to the surplus, which today is a 100-percent Social Security surplus, but also establishing a dangerous precedent for future actions. Having so recently arrived at a balanced budget, we should not fritter that away the first opportunity that we have in this Congress. 
   There are a number of ways we can pay for this. We can pay for it by an amendment that would take funding from some other sources of the Federal Government, reduce those in the amount equivalent to balance the expenditure in this proposal. There has been no such amendment offered. 
   Another way is to raise taxes to a level sufficient to offset the additional spending. Mr. President, I indicated that it was my intention to offer such an amendment. I now send that amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-5-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-6-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the reason for the delay is an attempt to get as close a verification as possible as to just what is the unfunded amount in this legislation. 
   The best number available to us through the staffs of the majority and minority of the committee is $16.5 billion over the next 10 years. The amendment I am offering will raise $17.9 billion over that period. It consists of four items. 
   The first is a reinstatement of the environmental tax imposed on corporate taxable income and deposited in the hazardous substance Superfund. This was a tax that was in effect up until 3 years ago, when it lapsed. There have been proposals to reestablish this tax as part of a Superfund reform bill. 
   The controversy has been more on what the nature of that reform bill will be than the extension of the tax itself. So I am proposing that we extend this tax and, frankly, hope that before this Congress is over the committee upon which the Presiding Officer and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee sit will in fact produce a reformed Superfund bill. 
   The second item is a reinstatement of the excise taxes which also lapsed and which would, but for that, have been deposited in the hazardous substance Superfund bill. Both of those would be reinstated as of June 30, 1999. 
   The third item is a modification of the foreign tax credit carry-over. This was the provision the Senate adopted last year in legislation that was offered by Senator COVERDELL of Georgia. It did not become law. 
   Under the current law, if a corporation has a tax credit based on payment of taxes in a third country, the company can get a 3-year carry-back--that is, can apply that foreign tax credit for 3 past corporate tax years--or can carry it forward for 5 years. This would adjust that by providing there would only be a 1-year carry-back but would give a 7-year carry-forward. 
   The third is a reinstatement of the oil spill liability trust fund excise tax with an increase in the trust fund ceiling to $5 billion. This would be through September 30 of the year 2009. 
   Those four measures, as I indicated, over the 10-year period from 1999 through 2008, would raise a total of $17.979 billion and would fully cover the projected cost of this legislation. 
   I urge the adoption of this amendment so that we can achieve the dual purpose of seeing that we provide the compensation for our service personnel while at the same time maintain the fiscal discipline which we are so proud and pleased has brought us to the first balanced budget in 30 years, an objective that we do not want to frivolously lose. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-7-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, if the plan is to stack this and other amendments, could we have a period of 3 or 4 minutes prior to the vote on those stacked amendments to review them with our colleagues before they vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-8-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we are about to take our first legislative action of the 106th Congress. Many of us who ran for election or reelection last November said that one of our greatest sources of pride was that after 30 years of deficits and a Federal debt which had reached close to $6 trillion, that we had finally exercised the fiscal discipline to achieve a balanced Federal budget. 
   What are we about to do with the first vote of this 106th Congress? We are about to pass a bill which will have an unfunded liability of $16.5 billion. That is $16.5 billion not subject to appropriations. That is $16.5 billion of direct authorized spending in this legislation plus revenue reductions that are incident to this legislation. 
   Mr. President, that is not the message that we want to send to the American people--that we are going to add a further indebtedness to the Federal Government, that we are going to start down the slippery slope to more deficits and more additions to our national debt. 
   We do not want to tell our service men and women that we have given them these benefits, which we need to do, but that we were unwilling to pay for them, so that for every dollar we give them, 34 cents is unfunded. That is not fair either to the taxpayers or to the service men and women who we are trying to convince that we are going to substantially improve their service conditions so that they will join up and stay and serve the Nation. 
   Mr. President, what I have proposed is a simple proposition. If we are going to make this offer to our service personnel, let's pay for it. I have proposed a payment of four items. Three are tax measures which have been passed by this Congress and which have lapsed. This would renew those measures. Two of them relate to the Superfund Program, one of them to the oilspill liability, the fourth is a measure which was  included in a bill that Senator COVERDELL brought to us last year, which passed the Senate, which makes a change in the carry-over provision for foreign tax credit. 
   Those four items together will raise the funds necessary to convert this blank check into a fully funded check, be responsible to the American taxpayers, to the service men and women and, particularly, be responsible to the American people who are looking to us to see if we can maintain the fiscal discipline that we so recently acquired. This is a test of this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-9-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, parliamentary inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-10-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The specific nature of a constitutional point of order was that the amendment that I had offered would have effected taxation and therefore required that this measure be originated in the House of Representatives, is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-11-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, further inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-12-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Would that indicate that if there were in the underlying bill that is now before the Senate also measures which effected revenues that the bill would similarly be subject to a constitutional point of order? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-13-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the question I asked was, would a constitutional point of order be available against the bill because of provisions which effected revenue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-14-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I have a further parliamentary inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-15-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. The letter from the Congressional Budget Office, submitted to Chairman WARNER on February 12, 1999, on page 9, indicates that there has been an effect in the change of receipts as a result of provisions which are in the underlying bill. The question is, would that make the underlying bill subject to the same constitutional point of order as effecting revenue? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-16-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Point of order, Mr. President. There was also, I believe, no provision in the unanimous-consent agreement we accepted that would have sanctioned the constitutional point of order against the amendment. 
   Mr. WARNER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-17-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Further parliamentary inquiry, Mr. President. Would a motion asking unanimous consent that a constitutional point of order be available be in order? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-18-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to raise a constitutional point of order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. ``We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.'' 
   Those words were a radical declaration when spoken in 1776. Never before had it been asserted that the purpose of government was to secure the individual freedoms and liberties of its citizens. To the contrary, previous governments existed for the opposite purpose; to control the people and suppress their aspirations. 
   Eleven years after the Continental Congress approved these revolutionary sentiments--and after a violent war which severed the colonies' tie to King George III--many of the same individuals who had declared independence gathered again in Philadelphia to secure those rights so recently and tenuously won. 
   The governmental structure they constructed during those weeks in the oppressive summer heat was far from simple. But its complexity wasn't an accident, or simply a result of the diverse geographical and economic interests represented at the Constitutional Convention. As our colleague Senator PATRICK MOYNIHAN has so aptly observed, our government was the first to insert conflict as a conscious element, to achieve inefficiency by design. 
   Our nation's founders had personal knowledge of and experience with English history, in which both Kings and Parliaments had at times exerted excessive power over the people. They realized that liberty would be enhanced if political power was divided instead of centralized. 
   Unlike other forms of democracy, where a no confidence vote of the national legislature can bring down a government at any time, the Framers took great pains to establish a delicate balance of powers--and a careful system of checks and balances--between the nation and the states and among the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the federal government. They created a structure in which every branch would have the strength needed to keep excessive power from flowing into the hands of any other branch and thus threatening the liberties of the people. 
   This determination to achieve balance is reflected in the discussion of impeachment and removal from office in Article I, Section 3 of the Constitution. By requiring action from both 
   houses of Congress, and mandating a two-thirds Senate majority for removal, the Framers purposely made it difficult for Congress to undo the results of a properly constituted Presidential election--one of the most disruptive acts imaginable in a democracy--and relieve a President of his or her constitutional duties. The Framers wisely recognized that impeachment, when improvidently used, could create an overbearing Congress from the ruins of a destabilized and delegitimized Presidency. 
   But the Framers' attention to balance was not limited to the procedures of impeachment. They also made clear their belief that impeachment and removal from office should only be an option in situations in which a President becomes a threat to the government and the people it serves. We see this in their small number of enumerated offenses--Treason, Bribery, other High Crimes and Misdemeanors--and in their commentary. 
   For example, at the Constitutional Convention in 1787, George Mason said that the term ``high crimes and misdemeanors'' referred to ``great and dangerous offenses'' and ``attempts to subvert the Constitution.'' 
   Mr. Chief Justice, the President's self-indulgent actions were immoral. Disgraceful. Reprehensible. History should--and, I suspect, will--judge that William Jefferson Clinton dishonored himself and the highest office in our American democracy. 
   But despite their disreputable nature, President Clinton's actions should not result in his conviction and removal from office. After careful objective study of each article presented by the House of Representatives, I have concluded that the charges against the President do not meet the high constitutional standards established by the Framers. Removal of this President on the grounds established by the House Managers would upset the delicate balance of powers so meticulously established 212 years ago. 
   Mr. Chief Justice, the Framers set high standards for removal because they understood that the office of the Presidency would be held by imperfect human beings. They assembled a government that could withstand personal failings. 
   We should be outraged that William Jefferson Clinton's personal failings debased himself and his office. But they did not cause permanent injury to the proper functioning of our government. He did not upset the constitutional balance of powers. 
   I hope that the Chief Justice, my colleagues, and the American people will not misinterpret my comments. While it has not been proven that President William Jefferson Clinton committed the high crimes and misdemeanors required for removal from office, he is not above the law. His acquittal in this impeachment trial is not exoneration. 
   The framers made this clear in Article I of the Constitution. They established that an impeached President, even if convicted and removed from office, would still ``be liable and 
   subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgement, and Punishment, according to law.'' When this President leaves office, he could face sanction or conviction for his actions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. There are two principal reasons I support extension of sections 29 and 45. First, in a period where America is continuing to increase its dependence on foreign oil, we need to develop alternative fuel technologies to prepare for the day when foreign supply of oil is reduced. These tax credits have spurred the production of fuel from sources as diverse as biomass, coal, and wind. America will desperately need fuel from these domestic sources when foreign producers reduce imports. Second, the alternative fuels that earn these tax credits are clean fuels. For example, the capture and reuse of landfill methane prevents the methane from escaping into the atmosphere. I will support my colleagues in an effort next year to extend these provisions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am proud to join Senator MCCONNELL and other colleagues in launching an initiative to increase Americans' access to college education. Today we are introducing the College Savings Act of 1999. This bill would allow states to offer prepaid college tuition and savings programs on a tax exempt basis. 
   These programs have flourished in the face of spiraling college costs. According to the College Board, between 1980 and 1997, tuition at public colleges increased 107 percent, while the median income increased just 12 percent. The cause of this dramatic increase in tuition is the subject of significant debate. But whether these increases are attributable to increased costs to the universities, reductions in state funding for public universities, or the increased value of a college degree, the fact remains that financing a college education has become increasingly difficult.  
   Although the federal government has increased its aid to college students over the years, it is the states who have engineered innovative ways to help its families afford college. Michigan implemented the first prepaid tuition plan in 1986. Florida followed in 1988. Today 43 states have either implemented or are in the process of implementing prepaid tuition plans or state savings plans. 
   Mr. President, prepaid college tuition plans allow parents to pay prospectively for their children's higher education at participating universities. States pool these funds and invest them in a manner that will match or exceed the pace of educational inflation. This ``locks in'' current tuition prices and guarantees financial access to a future college education. 
   Prior to 1996, the IRS had indicated that it would treat the state entity that held and invested the funds as a taxable corporation. In addition, the IRS stated its intent to tax families annually on earnings on amounts transferred to a state program. In the Small Business Jobs protection Act, The 104th Congress did two things: (1) it said that provided the program met certain standards, the state program would be tax exempt. (2) Congress also said that families could not be taxed on earnings on an account until a distribution is made from the state plan to the family or the applicable college. At that point, student beneficiary could be taxed on the earnings. 
   The following year, in the Taxpayer Relief Act, The 105th Congress clarified that this deferral of taxation applied not only to prepaid tuition but also to prospective payments for room and board. 
   Senator MCCONNELL and I believe that The 106th Congress must go one step further. Distributions from these accounts should be 100 percent tax free. Students should be able to enroll in college without fear of them having to pay taxes on the money accrued. 
   We believe that these programs should be tax free for numerous reasons. First, for most families, they have in essence purchased a service to be provided in the future. The accounts are not liquid. The funds are transferred from the state directly to the college or university. Under current policy, the student is required to find other means of generating the funds to pay the tax. Second, Congress should make these programs tax free in order to encourage savings and college attendance. No longer is a student's question ``Will I be able to go to college?'' but instead ``Where will I go to college?'' Third, making these accounts tax free is good education fiscal policy. For states that do set up programs where they guarantee a tuition price by selling contracts, the existence of these programs puts downward pressure on education inflation. 
   Perhaps most importantly, prepaid tuition and savings programs help middle income families afford a college education. Florida's experience shows that it is not higher income families who take most advantage of these plans. It is middle income families who want the discipline of monthly payments. They know that they would have a difficult time coming up with the funds necessary to pay for college if they waited until their child enrolled. In Florida, more than 70 percent of participants in the state tuition program have family incomes of less than $50,000. 
   I am pleased to have this opportunity to join my colleagues in support of good tax policies which enhance our higher education goals. Prepaid tuition plans deserve our support through enactment of legislation that would make them tax-free for American families and students. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Central American and Caribbean Relief Act of 1999. I am joined in this by my colleagues Senators DEWINE, COVERDELL, DOMENICI, LANDRIEU, DODD, HATCH, FRIST, MACK, and HAGEL. This bill is a comprehensive disaster relief package that will help our Caribbean and Central American neighbors recover from the devastation caused by Hurricane Georges and Hurricane Mitch. 
   This past fall, two hurricanes ravaged our neighbors in Central America and the Caribbean, causing death and destruction that has not been seen in this hemisphere in over 200 years. First, Hurricane Georges hit the Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, the Florida Keys, and the Gulf Coast of the United States in September of 1998, with a ferocity that resulted in 250 deaths and more than $1 billion in damage. Only a month later, Hurricane Mitch attacked Central America, killing more than 10,000 people and leaving 3 million homeless. Hurricane Mitch unleashed a series of destructive forces--floods, mudslides, disease--that have affected the lives of 3.2 million residents in five nations. In Honduras alone, over 30 percent of the population was displaced by Mitch. To put this in perspective, had the U.S. suffered comparable levels of damage, 80 million of our citizens would have been displaced. The scale of this disaster is truly astounding. 
   I had the opportunity to see this destruction for myself when I visited the region in January. I witnessed whole villages that were completely washed away, families crammed into open-air shelters, and children playing among the concrete remanents of bridges and buildings. I saw field after field destroyed by the heavy rains. The losses in the agricultural sector were staggering. In Honduras alone, an estimated 70% of the crops were destroyed, including 90% of the country's banana and grain crops. Because agriculture employs approximately half of the regional workforce, these losses have resulted in tremendous economic disruption. 
   The Central American and Caribbean Relief Act is a comprehensive plan that will help these struggling nations get back on their feet and rebuild their economies. First, the bill will expand the current trade benefits provided under the Caribbean Basin Initiative. During my recent visit to the region their was unanimous agreement, from the Presidents of the countries to members of the private sector, the CBI enhancement is the number one priority of their economic recovery plan. History shows that expanding trade with the Caribbean Basin helps our own economy, expanding U.S. exports to the region at the same time that we build important trading relations with our closest neighbors. Any disaster relief package that does not include CBI enhancement falls far short of the mark. 
   The second part of this package will continue and expand current humanitarian and disaster assistance activities in the region. This will help to rehabilitate agricultural production, rebuild bridges and roads, provide much needed housing, clear landmines, restore safe water and health care, and help prevent similar disasters in the future. This is a continuation of the heroic efforts that the U.S. Government has already undertaken in response to these hurricanes. U.S. forces have been there since the day the disaster struck, rescuing hundreds from certain death, moving 30 million pounds of relief supplies, and helping rebuild the regions critical infrastructure. 
   By working to improve economic development of the region, we will help prevent needless environmental damage, strengthen the development of democracy in the region, and protect against the proliferation of narcotics trafficking. An investment in the long-term recovery of the region, which is so important to the United States both economically and politically, will produce benefits for the entire Western Hemisphere. 
   The bill includes the following initiatives: 
   $600 million to expand funding for humanitarian efforts to meet needs for health, water/sanitation, road reconstruction, agricultural restoration, agricultural microcredit, food, shelter, disaster mitigation and other emergency relief; 
   Enhancement of the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI) to give the nation of Central America and the Caribbean the opportunity to quickly expand their economies and expand the manufacturing sector while they rebuild their agricultural base; 
   $16 million for bilateral debt forgiveness for Honduras; 
   A micro-credit initiative targeted at reviving agricultural production in the region; 
   $150 million to replenish Defense Department funds depleted in the immediate aftermath of the disaster, including the humanitarian relief fund that supports landmine detection and removal; 
   $70 million to expand New Horizons, a Department of defense program in the region that builds housing and roads, provides medical care, health services, and clean water to affected areas; 
   Authorization of an OPIC direct equity pilot program to assist U.S. businesses in the region, develop low income housing, and rebuild damaged infrastructure; and 
   $25 million for the Central American Emergency Trust Fund to be applied against multilateral debt and provide external financing needs. 
   As we move forward to address the devastation of this event, the choice facing the United States is clear: we can continue to provide emergency assistance to the region for the foreseeable future and prepare for waves of refugees, or we can act to implement a comprehensive disaster recovery program that will rebuild the economies of the affected nations, allowing them to provide for themselves. The choice is simple, because helping these nations recovery is in our own interest. Failure to act will hurt ourselves and our neighbors. The Central American and Caribbean Relief Act is an important opportunity for the United States to lend a hand to neighbors in need and help them get back on their feet. 
   .Mr. DeWINE. Mr. President, today, the Senator from Florida, Mr. GRAHAM and I are introducing The Central American and Caribbean Relief Act of 1999. We are joined in this effort by the following original co-sponsors: Mr. COVERDELL, Mr. DOMENICI, Ms. LANDRIEU, Mr. DODD, Mr. HATCH, Mr. MACK, Mr. FRIST, and Mr. HAGEL. This important legislation is both timely and vital. I urge my colleagues to join us as co-sponsors and to work with us to pass it as soon as possible. 
   Last year, several of our neighboring countries suffered serious catastrophic natural disasters. First, Hurricane Georges struck Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and Haiti resulting in hundreds dead and billions of dollars in damage. These countries were just starting to recover when Hurricane Mitch rolled through various countries in Central America. 
   Hurricane Mitch left unspeakable devastation with over 9,000 dead, another 9,000 still missing, and millions homeless. The physical devastation will take decades to repair in Honduras and Nicaragua. And these countries are not alone: Guatemala, El Salvador, and Belize have suffered as well. 
   Mr. President, many senior officials in our government have visited these devastated regions--and I applaud their  interest and exhaustive efforts. I have visited this region numerous times within the past year and I plan to go back. 
   I applaud the extraordinary displays of teamwork, compassion, and generosity exhibited by the citizens of Ohio, as well as all Americans, in their effort to help the victims of Hurricane Mitch. Their unselfish donations to organizations such as the Northeast Ohio Salvation Army and the Ohio Hurricane Relief for Central America as well as the many other national and local relief agencies serve as an inspirational reminder of the global human community spirit we Americans so often display. And we certainly do not want to forget the quick response provided by our men in uniform, including Ohio's own 445th Air Reserve Wing, in saving lives and tackling the daunting task of helping to rebuild that region's infrastructure. 
   My concern, however, is that once Hurricane Mitch fades out of the headlines, there's a risk that this vitally important region itself will also disappear off America's sometimes limited radar screen of foreign policy attention. The time has come not to address the devastation that has passed, but to begin the development that is important to our hemisphere's future. 
   That is why the Central America and Caribbean Relief Act is so important. This act would provide (1) trade opportunities to help the region restore itself economically; (2) emergency assistance--feeding programs, and important and necessary infrastructure improvements; and (3) limited bilateral and multilateral debt reduction. 
   Mr. President, let me take a moment to comment on the highlights of this bill. First, this bill would provide several trade and investment initiatives. It will afford current beneficiaries of the Caribbean Basin Initiative similar treatment already afforded Mexican products under the North American Free Trade Agreement. It is important that these countries become more fully integrated into the international trading system, which also would benefit the U.S. through expanded export opportunities. The bill also would authorize additional funding for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to enhance the ability of private enterprise to make its full contribution to the region's rebuilding and development process. 
   Second, this bill would provide bilateral assistance. I fully support the replenishment of funds exhausted by the Department of Defense in their humanitarian relief efforts. It is very important that our military's efforts in this area continue and that they maintain sufficient resources to effectively deploy against future natural disasters. We also included language based on the innovative ``Africa Seeds of Hope'' law, which I wrote and Congress passed last year. This language would authorize a micro-credit initiative targeted at reviving agricultural production in the region. This means that financial tools and resources would go directly to farmers and small businesses and bypass Government middlemen. 
   Finally, this bill would provide much needed debt relief. This debt relief clearly makes sense especially when keeping in mind that in many cases, the infrastructure these countries are paying for is precisely what has been destroyed by Hurricane Mitch--they are paying for what no longer exists. 
   Mr. President, let me explain why America should take the lead on this relief. Before the hurricanes, the people of Central America were emerging from a decade of civil war. Democracy has finally taken hold, but is not yet irreversible. The United States invested billions in the 1980s to expel communism from Central America. We succeeded. That investment--that partnership for democracy in Central America now hangs in the balance. 
   In the 1980s, it was fundamentally important to the entire hemisphere that Central America be a seedbed of reliable trading partners--not revolutionaries or brutal autocrats. The President's National Bipartisan Commission on Central America, chaired by Henry Kissinger, released a detailed report in 1984 that expressed our basic challenge. We needed then, and still need today, a comprehensive Central America policy--one that responds not to fleeting crises but to the basic needs of the region and the United States. 
   These needs do not change. They are the same three principles that formed the core of the philosophy of the Kissinger report: ``Democratic self-determination *.*.* encouragement of economic and social development that fairly benefits all *.*.* (and) cooperation in meeting threats to the security of the region.'' This report recognized how free markets and free societies work to strengthen each other. 
   U.S. policy has made excellent progress on all of these counts, but Hurricane Mitch provides a pointed reminder of how fragile--and reversible--the progress can be. History offers us a sober reminder that from misery, despair, and joblessness springs oppression. We must not forget that the seeds of the 1979 Sandinista Revolution in Nicaragua sprouted from the wreckage of the 1972 Managua earthquake. Indeed, it is only now that the old city center is being rebuilt where mangled, vacant buildings still stand as witness to Somoza's failed dictatorship. 
   Mr. President, today Nicaragua faces a new natural disaster--greater than that of 1972. The infrastructure in the northern provinces, the locus of revolutions throughout this century, is washed away. In Honduras, the government is confronted with thousands of miles of roads where not one bridge is left undamaged or undestroyed. At the devastated banana plantations of Honduras, 12,000 jobs hang in the balance. The tax base is non-existent because the businesses that provided the jobs are destroyed. The task facing these governments is enormous, and the resources to address these problems are meager. 
   People who cannot feed their families will turn to any source for assistance. Unless we partner with the people of Central America in the name of progress, the alternatives are clear. The pressure to emigrate to the United States could increase. Colombia's drug traffickers could oblige by putting dollars into their hands. And anti-democratic elements could use the devastation to serve their self-interests. 
   A peasant who has seen his home blown away and his employment gone will look for work wherever it is available. We saw a massive upsurge in migration during the tumultuous 1980's. The same is beginning to happen now. The number of Central Americans detained and expelled at Mexico's southern border has doubled recently. Mexican officials worry that this increase could be the beginning of a prolonged, large scale migration of Central Americans through Mexico to the United States. 
   Furthermore, a farmer who has seen his crop destroyed, and the only road to his markets washed away, will be liable to support revolutionary demagogues who vow convincingly that they can repair it. If the current elected governments are unable to repair the roads and give temporary assistance, that same farmer could become part of the next popular insurgency. 
   Central America is full of former revolutionaries who are capable of exploiting Mitch's misery to rebuild new insurgencies that will tax the resources of the current governments. Promises easily made by fast-talking demagogues can lead to future problems of the kind that we addressed and resolved in the 1980s. 
   Mr. President, the challenge we face in Central America remains the same as that posed by the Kissinger report: Do we want Central America to be our partner in building up a prosperous hemisphere--or a hotbed of revolutionary unrest? The choice is not entirely our own, but we can--and should--have a huge influence on behalf of freedom, prosperity, and stability. We must send an unmistakable signal to our Southern neighbors that our regional commitment is not tentative or fleeting. The U.S. has to seize the initiative over the long-term future of Central America--because if we don't, events will. 
   Mr. President, the Central American and Caribbean Relief Act is in our economic and national security interests. We must act and we must act now.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. BROWNBACK addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Mr. Matt Barry of our staff be given floor privileges for the remainder of the consideration of this issue during this session of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, I rise today along with Senator HUTCHISON and 21 original cosponsors--Republicans and Democrats--to introduce legislation designed to prevent the federal government from seizing the State settlement proceeds negotiated with the tobacco industry. 
   Just over 1 year has passed since the State of Florida received an ominous warning from the federal government which said in essence: ``Prepare to hand over half of your money or we will be prepared to withhold your Medicaid funds.'' 
   This action was a slap in the face to States like Florida--a State which spent countless hours and millions of dollars preparing to wage war against the tobacco industry in court--with no guarantee of success and with no assistance from anyone--including the federal government. 
   The State of Florida specifically asked the Federal Government to assist us, to join in a joint lawsuit. We the States will assume the responsibility of suing the tobacco industry for the Medicaid and other nonspecific medical program costs. The Federal Government will assume the responsibility for Medicare, the Veterans Administration, and other Federal health program costs. What was the response to that request for joint action? ``Not interested.'' 
   In fact, only after it became clear that States were going to be successful in their lawsuits did the federal government become interested in the State settlements. 
   And so the Health Care Financing Administration sent collection notices to States based on a twisted reading of an obscure provision in Medicaid law--section 1903(D) of the Social Security Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-3-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the federal government is attempting to collect almost $19 billion over 5 years, and, presumably almost $100 billion over the 25 year settlement agreement period, based on a little known provision in Medicaid which was never intended to apply to a lawsuit of this magnitude or character. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990122</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, on Tuesday of this week, Senator GRASSLEY and I introduced S. 36, The American Worker Long Term Care Affordability Act of 1999, a bill creating a model long-term care insurance program for federal employees. Today, I would like to comment on a related long term care bill also introduced on Tuesday by Senator GRASSLEY and myself. S. 35, The Long Term Care Affordability and Availability Act of 1999, would give all Americans a tax deduction for the premiums they pay for long term care insurance. 
   The cost of long term care has risen to astonishing levels in recent years. In 1995, it averaged $37,000 per year. What this means is that a chronic illness requiring long term care can represent a financial catastrophe for retired Americans and their families. A retired couple might have a pension and basic health care, but the couple is not secure in retirement so long as their financial resources can be depleted by long term care bills. 
   Many Americans think Medicare covers the cost of long term care. In fact, it covers only the first 100 days of care following a hospital stay. Yet the average nursing home stay is 2.5 years. 
   Medicaid, unlike Medicare, does cover long term care--but only for beneficiaries who use up their life savings and income first. Medicaid, after all, is a program for the poor, and long term care beneficiaries must become impoverished to qualify. Furthermore, beneficiaries who rely on Medicaid must use providers that are chosen for them--not providers of their own choice. Even with these restrictions, Medicaid currently pays more than $30 billion per year for nursing home care. 
   The budgetary challenges provided by Medicare and Medicaid are on course to become ever more acute in coming years, as the baby boom generation ages. By 2030, as the number of people over 65 doubles, fully 32 states will have the demographics that Florida has today. The fastest growing segment of the population will be those over 85 with an expected 143% increase by 2030. People over 85 are at least 5 times more likely to reside in a nursing home than people who are 65. In real terms, nursing home expenditures are expected to quadruple in the next three decades. 
   Mr. President, given the accelerating cost of long term care and the demographic pressures on Medicare and Medicaid and other entitlement programs, Congress started several years ago to provide incentives for people to plan ahead for their own needs. The way most Americans plan ahead for long term care is by purchasing long term care insurance. With insurance, people can be confident that they won't have to impoverish themselves to deal with a chronic illness. They won't have to fall back on the Medicaid program or family members. 
   In the Kennedy-Kassenbaum health reform legislation in 1996, Congress permitted the deduction of premiums on long term care insurance in the same manner as health expenses. The trouble is 
   that few people--other than the self-employed--can deduct health expenses since the tax code allows only the portion of health expenses over 7.5% of income to be deducted, and then only as an itemized deduction. Thus, a typical employee planning ahead for retirement cannot purchase long term care insurance on a tax deductible basis. 
   The bill we are introducing today would improve on Kennedy-Kassenbaum by allowing Americans to deduct long term care insurance premiums regardless of whether or not they are self-employed or whether they itemize deductions or have any other health expense. Effectively, the bill would put long term care insurance on a par with pensions. Just as everyone can save for a pension on a tax deductible basis, everyone should be able to purchase long term care insurance in the same fashion. 
   A better deduction for long term care insurance premiums could also help us by encouraging younger Americans to purchase insurance now, when the coverage is readily affordable. For example, a quality long term care insurance policy purchased at age forty, can cost less than $50 per month. 
   Mr. President, every person who is covered by long term care insurance is one fewer potential Medicaid claimant. A recent study by the American Council for Life Insurance indicates that long term care insurance has the potential to reduce future out of pocket expenditures on long term care by 40 percent and future Medicaid long term care expenditures by more than 20%. In other words, long term care insurance has the capacity both to protect seniors from financial catastrophe, and to help protect entitlement programs from long term insolvency. 
   Mr. President, I also want to applaud the President's long term care initiative, which he announced two weeks ago. In proposing a tax credit for individuals who provide long term care to dependents, President Clinton also pledged to increase efforts to educate Americans about the importance of long term care. Both of these proposals are consistent with the legislative effort that Senator GRASSLEY and I are undertaking, and I look forward to working with the White House on this important issue.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am proud to join Senator SESSIONS and other colleagues in launching an initiative to increase Americans' access to college education. Today, we are introducing the Collegiate Learning and Student Savings Act. This bill would extend tax-free treatment to all state sponsored prepaid tuition plans and state savings plans in the year 2000. This legislation would also give prepaid tuition plans established by private colleges and universities tax-deferred treatment in 2000, and tax-exempt status by 2004. 
   Prepaid college tuition and savings programs have flourished at the state level in the face of spiraling college costs. According to the College Board, between 1980 and 1997, tuition at public colleges increased by 107 percent, while the median income increased just 12 percent. The cause of this dramatic increase in tuition is the subject of significant debate. But whether these increases are attributable to increased costs to the universities, reductions in state funding for public universities, or the increased value of a college degree, the fact remains that financing a college education has become increasingly difficult. 
   Although the federal government has increased its aid to college students over the years, it is the states who have engineered innovative ways to help its families afford college. Michigan implemented the first prepaid tuition plan in 1986. Florida followed in 1988. today 43 states have either implemented or are in the process of implementing prepaid tuition plans or state savings plans. 
   Mr. President, prepaid college tuition plans allow parents to pay prospectively for their children's higher education at participating universities. States pool these funds and invest them in a manner that will match or exceed the pace of educational inflation. This ``locks in'' current tuition and guarantees financial access to a future college education. Congress has already acted to ensure that tax on distributions from state sponsored programs are tax-deferred. 
   Senator SESSIONS and I believe the 106th Congress must move to make state programs 100 percent tax free. Students should be able to enroll in college without fear of then having to pay taxes on the money accrued. The legislation would extend the same treatment to private college prepaid programs in 2004. 
   We believe that these programs should be tax free for numerous reasons. First, for most families, they have in essence purchased a service to be provided in the future. The accounts are not liquid. The funds are transferred from the state directly to the college or university. Under current policy, the student is required to find other means of generating the funds to pay the tax. Second, Congress should make these programs tax free in order to encourage savings and college attendance. 
   Perhaps most importantly, prepaid tuition and savings programs help middle income families afford a college education. Florida's experience shows that it is not higher income families who take most advantage of these plans. It is middle income families who want the discipline of monthly payments. They know that they would have a difficult time coming up with funds necessary to pay for college if they waited until their child enrolled. In Florida, more than 70 percent of participants in the state tuition program have family incomes of less than $50,000. 
   I am pleased to have this opportunity to join my colleagues in support of good tax policies which enhance our higher education goals. Prepaid tuition plans deserve our support through enactment of legislation that would make them tax-free for American families and students. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-2-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator GRASSLEY in introducing legislation that will allow the Federal Government to be a role model in helping Americans prepare for retirement security. 
   The issue is long term care insurance. 
   Several key facts highlights the importance of long term care insurance. 
   It is estimated that the majority of women and one-third of men who reach the age of 60 will need nursing home care before the end of life. Many of the baby boom generation first face this issue when they deal with their aging parents' needs. 
   Long term care is one of the most important retirement security issues facing us today. According to a 1997 survey sponsored by the National Council on the Aging, more Americans (69 percent) were worried about how to pay for long term care than were worried about how they would pay for their retirement (56 percent). This level of concern was true for all age groups and income levels among those surveyed. 
   Their concerns are well-founded. In 1995 the average cost of nursing home care in the United States was $37,000 per year. In some urban areas of the country, that cost can reach $70,000 per year. 
   Medicare provides short-term care coverage, but the average nursing home stay is two and one-half years. In fact, Medicare pays for only five percent of national nursing home costs. 
   Not all long term care occurs in nursing homes--85 percent of nursing home care is nonskilled care. Again, Medicare does not cover non-skilled care, so all of these costs must be covered by the patient and his or her family members. 
   Medicaid will provide nursing home and some nonskilled care coverage, but an individual must be extremely low income, or become low income, to qualify for Medicaid. This program currently pays for over half of nursing home expenses in the United States. But who wants to see their lifetime savings, and their children's inheritance, wiped out to pay for the cost of a catastrophic long term illness? 
   The end of life is not a pleasant subject for any family to discuss. But the emotional decisions involved are made easier by planning ahead and investing in long term care insurance. That kind of forethought provides needed options at a very vulnerable time. 
   Although many companies are considering offering this insurance to their employees, as of 1996 only 13.2 percent of long-term care plans were employer-sponsored. 
   Today, Senator GRASSLEY and I are moving the Federal Government into a leadership role by creating a model long term care insurance program for Federal employees. We hope that our legislation will inspire private companies to increase the long term care options available to their employees. 
   Under our plan, private companies will have the opportunity to compete to provide long term care insurance to Federal employees. This does not mean a high cost to taxpayers; premiums will be fully paid by federal employees. However, by pooling the numbers of workers in the Federal Government, our plan will encourage reduced group rates. 
   Only plans qualified under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 may offer this insurance to Federal workers through our legislation. Beyond that, we will let the marketplace determine the cost and services of plans available for purchase. 
   Flexibility is important in this relatively young industry as insurance companies are still in the process of determining how to most effectively provide this product. Competition among the various carriers, group discounts and volume of sales will keep these premiums affordable. 
   Eleven million Americans, including Federal employees and retirees, their spouses, parents, and in-laws would be eligible for long term care insurance under our proposal. This bill is just a first step, but an important one. 
   I ask for your support as we continue to improve retirement security for all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-graham-fl-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, since my days as Governor of the State of Florida, I have been a strong advocate of the protection and restoration of the Florida Everglades, the largest wetland and subtropical wilderness in the United States. This legislation will require the Secretary of the Interior to review the suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System of the Everglades expansion area, a designation that will protect and preserve this area for the use of present and future generations. This action will be an important step towards maintaining the natural habitat of such endangered species as the Florida panther, the snail kite, and the cape sable seaside sparrow, as well as sustaining uninterupted water flow to the Everglades' aquifers, the main water source for the majority of the rapidly growing state of Florida. Over the last 100 years, this ecosystem has been altered by man to provide for development, to manage water for irrigation, and to provide flood control in times of hurricanes. The review of this land for potential as wilderness may lead to greater future protection of the Everglades ecosystem. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

