<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (``CFMA''), the proposed legislation to reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC'') and to amend the Commodity Exchange Act (``CEA''). This legislation is the Senate companion of H.R. 5660, which Congressman THOMAS EWING introduced yesterday in the House of Representatives and which is part of the final appropriations measure. As an original co-sponsor of the CFMA, I am proud to join Chairmen GRAMM and LUGAR in supporting legislation to provide much needed regulatory relief to the United States futures exchanges, to remove the eighteen-year-old ban on single stock futures, and to bring legal certainty in the multi-trillion dollar derivatives markets. 
   The CFMA gives a substantial boost to Chicago's futures industry and the 200,000 jobs that depend on it. The Chicago futures exchanges will be given an opportunity to compete on a level playing field with the world markets. Burdensome federal regulations will be removed and a new regulatory structure will be implemented that will give our nation's most important futures exchanges the ability to compete equally with world markets in product innovation and the ever-changing demands of the marketplace. Chicago's exchanges will now have the opportunity to offer single stock futures so that they can compete with global markets already trading those types of futures. This is potentially an enormous market for Chicago's exchanges and U.S. investors. It goes without saying that this market is absolutely necessary for Chicago to remain the center for world futures trading. 
   I commend Chairman LUGAR on his efforts to act swiftly to modernize the CEA and to implement the recommendations of the President's Working Group on Financial Markets (``PWG''). The challenges involved in such an undertaking are enormous and I appreciate Chairman LUGAR's thoughtful and comprehensive approach to this complex task. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation, I have been actively involved in the evolution of the CFMA and am committed to working closely with Chairman LUGAR, Chairman GRAMM, and my other colleagues to ensure that the United States derivatives markets remain strong, competitive, and viable. The CFMA codifies the recommendations of the PWG to enhance legal certainty for over-the-counter (``OTC'') derivatives by excluding from the CEA certain bilateral swaps entered into on a principal-to-principal basis by eligible participants. The market for OTC derivatives has exploded over the past two decades into a multi-trillion dollar industry. These large and sophisticated markets play an important role in the global economy and legal certainty is a critical consideration for parties to OTC derivative contracts. Accordingly, the CFMA recognizes that legal certainty for OTC derivatives is vital to the continued competitiveness of the United States markets and achieves this certainty by excluding these transactions from the CEA. 
   The provisions of the CFMA also address the problem that federal regulation has not adapted to the rapid growth of the financial markets and today serves as a substantial restriction on market competitiveness and modernization. In order for the United States to maintain the most efficient markets in the world, regulatory barriers to fair competition must be removed. The CFMA reduces the inefficiencies of the CEA by removing constraints on innovation and competitiveness and by transforming the CFTC into an oversight agency with less front-line regulatory functions. The provisions for three kinds of trading facilities with varying levels of regulation provide needed flexibility to both traditional exchanges and electronic trading facilities by basing oversight of the futures markets on the types of products they trade and on the investors they serve. 
   Finally, the CFMA removes the Accord's prohibitions on the trading of single stock futures and small indices. Stock index futures have matured into vital financial management tools that enable a wide variety of investment concerns to manage their risk of adverse price movements. The options markets and swaps dealers offer customers risk management tools and investment alternatives involving both sector indexes and single stock derivatives. It seems only fair that futures exchanges be allowed to compete in this important market. 
   The CFMA lifts the ban on single and index stock futures restrictions to allow the marketplace to decide whether these instruments would be useful risk management tools and to enhance the ability of the U.S. financial markets to compete in the global marketplace. The bill reforms the Accord to allow both futures and securities exchanges to trade these products under the jurisdiction of their current regulators. The CFMA also allows both the  SEC and the CFTC to enforce violations of their respective laws regardless of whether the products are traded on a futures or securities exchange and requires that the agencies share necessary information for enforcement purposes. 
   The CFMA represents an arduous effort to remove burdensome regulatory structures and provide much needed legal certainty to the United States derivatives markets. This effort has produced comprehensive legislation that is designed to remove impediments to innovation and regulatory barriers to fair competition for the United States financial markets. The positive impact of this legislation on Chicago's futures markets cannot be overstated. The CFMA is vital to Chicago remaining the derivatives capital of the world and gives Chicago's futures exchanges the ability to lead the way in the potentially explosive single-stock futures market. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001017</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to clarify the history and intent of section 14 of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act, which passed the Senate on Wednesday. This section of the legislation is based on the Child Passenger Protection Act of 2000, which I introduced on February 10, 2000 with my colleague from Arkansas, BLANCHE LINCOLN, and my colleague from Pennsylvania, RICK SANTORUM. 
   The purpose of the Child Passenger Protection Act of 2000 is to enhance children's safety in motor vehicles. It calls for the adoption of improved child restraint safety performance standards and testing requirements, and it requires the Secretary of Transportation to provide parents with better consumer information about child restraints. 
   Child deaths in motor vehicle crashes in the United States have declined some since 1975, but significant work remains to be done in the area of child passenger safety. Motor vehicle crashes are the single leading cause of death and serious injury for young children in the United States. 
   Each year, up to 600 children under the age of five die in car crashes, and up to 70,000 are injured as occupants in motor vehicle crashes. Motor vehicle crashes cause about one of every three injury deaths among children 12 and younger in this country. 
   A child restraint that is installed and used correctly can prevent many injuries and deaths. The failure of some consumers to use age- and weight-appropriate child restraints has been well documented. Many consumers who purchase and use child restraints have little guidance or information with which to distinguish among the broad array of models, sizes, shapes and features of child restraints that are being sold in retail stores. 
   A child restraint that is well designed can prevent still more child injuries and deaths. The former top safety official at the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA), Dr. Ricardo Martinez, stated, in a letter dated September 14, 1999 to all manufacturers of child restraints sold in the United States: ``[m]any restraints have been engineered to barely comply with some of the most safety-critical requirements of the [Federal] standard.'' NHTSA also has questioned the efforts of some child restraint manufacturers to have child restraint defects characterized as ``inconsequential'' to avoid recall campaigns, and the agency recently suggested that child restraints be assigned safety ratings. 
   NHTSA is the agency within the United States Department of Transportation that monitors the safety of child restraints. NHTSA's primary method for verifying that a child restraint is designed to meet Federal safety standards is its compliance testing program. In compliance tests, Federal regulators subject the child restraint to a sled test that simulates a frontal collision with a stationary object. 
   The sled test used by NHTSA to verify a child restraint's performance does not consider how that restraint will perform in rear-impact, rollover, or side-impact crashes; and the sleds used in government compliance tests bear limited resemblance to the interiors of today's passenger vehicles. These sleds feature flat bench seats with lap belts that were common in automobiles of the mid-1970s, but which do not apply to many of the passenger vehicles that are on our roads these days. 
   Child restraints are too often marketed for children who are heavier than the anthropomorphic test dummies used by NHTSA in these sled tests. One private group's testing has shown that child restraints tested with a child at the highest weight recommended by the manufacturer have failed. NHTSA should allow child restraints to be marketed for children at specific weights only if the restraint has been tested at those weights. 
   The current Federal standard for child restraints, known as Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213, is overdue to be upgraded to better reflect new developments in technology.  While the current safety standard for child restraints specifies that child restraints be tested at an impact of 30 mph, tests are regularly conducted at speeds as low as 27.6 mph. The Government does not crash test any child restraints in actual motor vehicles; and it has not required that child restraint manufacturers simplify and standardize instructions for installing and using child restraints. 
   Finally, although head injuries from motor vehicle collisions frequently are the cause of serious injuries or fatalities, many makes and models of child restraints do not offer side-impact padding or other protection from head injuries in side-impact crashes. The Child Passenger Protection Act requires the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to initiate a rulemaking that would address these and other deficiencies in our current child restraint system. 
   Under this legislation, DOT will also begin a comprehensive program to provide information to consumers for use in making informed decisions in the purchase of child restraints. The Secretary must issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to establish such a program within 12 months of the bill's enactment, and it must issue a final rule within 24 months of the bill's enactment. 
   The Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Foreign Commerce and Tourism held a field meeting on June 19, 2000 in St. Louis, MO, to discuss the Child Passenger Protection Act. My colleague from Missouri, Senator JOHN ASHCROFT, chaired this field meeting, at which the subcommittee heard testimony from NHTSA, highway safety advocates, and a pediatric surgeon concerning the current state of child passenger safety and additional ways to improve safety. S. 2070 passed the full Committee on Commerce, with a substitute amendment, by voice vote on September 20, 2000. 
   This committee amendment to S. 2070, which has been incorporated into section 14 of the TREAD Act, also requires a study, within 12 months of the bill's enactment, of automobile booster seat use and effectiveness. In addition, this committee amendment requires DOT to develop a 5-year strategic plan to reduce deaths and injuries caused by the failure to use an appropriate booster seat for children between the ages of 4 and 8 years. The bill thus focuses more attention on an issue that automobile safety advocates have dubbed the ``forgotten child problem.'' This problem exists for children, usually between the ages of four and eight years, who have outgrown their infant child restraints but who do not fit properly in adult seat belts. 
   I want to close by extending my thanks to all who have so strongly supported this legislation, including the American College of Emergency Physicians, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, the Easter Seals KARS program, State Farm Insurance, SafetyBeltSafe U.S.A., the National SAFE KIDS Campaign, the co-authors of the book Baby Bargains, Consumers Union, and the American Automobile Association. I congratulate my colleague from Illinois, Congressman JOHN SHIMKUS, who introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives, for his fine work on getting this legislation included in the TREAD Act and through the House of Representatives on Tuesday. I am pleased that this important piece of legislation passed the Senate unanimously last week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote and to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I express my appreciation to all the Members of this distinguished body and, in particular, our Senate leaders on both sides of the aisle for the opportunity they have given me over the last couple days to speak to a matter of great importance, in my mind, a matter which, though it concerns only a relatively small portion of the Interior conference committee report that is before the Senate, I think nonetheless is a matter that goes to the heart of the Government's appropriations process. 
   I want to review and describe the filibuster I have conducted since about 2 days ago. It has had four major parts. 
   First, I explained the project about which I was concerned: The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library to be built in Springfield, IL. This is a project I support, and I am working to help make sure the project is adequately funded over the next couple years in the Senate. 
   Second, I explained our insistence on Federal competitive bidding and described the bill the Senate supported which detailed the competitive bid provision. This body, on its own, when focused on the narrow issue of whether the Federal funding the Congress is approving for the Abraham Lincoln Library would require that the project be competitively bid in accordance with Federal bidding guidelines, all Members from all 50 States, agreed that the Federal competitive bid guidelines should be attached. 
   However, the Interior conference committee report that is before us has stripped out that competitive bidding requirement, and since the project now is in the heart of this Appropriations Committee report, which has many other projects and appropriations for programs and Departments of the Federal Government all over the country, it is now in a bill that will no doubt pass the Senate. 
   Third, I compared the State versus the Federal procurement process and procedure. 
   Finally, I gave the context in which these concerns arise. I read a series of articles from publications from throughout the State of Illinois that discussed, first, the various contexts in which the issues of competitive bidding have come up in the State of Illinois and, second, the potential for insider abuse when there are not tight requirements that competitive bidding be applied to a government construction project or a government lease or to practically any kind of project in which the Federal or State government is involved. 
   It has been my effort to make the best possible case that Federal competitive bidding rules should be attached to the Lincoln Library. 
   I began by reviewing the time line of this project. This project was first discussed 2 years ago, or more, under the administration of then Gov. Jim Edgar of the State of Illinois. In the first few months of February 1998, Governor Edgar at that time was proposing a $40 million library. Later, we saw how, by March of 1999 in a new administration, the project had grown to a $60 million project. Then we saw how, by April of 1999, they were discussing $148 million project to construct the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library in Springfield, IL. 
   Since then, I think the numbers have fallen back down, and we are really talking about a $115 million to $120 million project: $50 million will come from the Federal Government, $50 million will come from the State, and the rest will come from private sources. 
   I also talked about the specific language in the Interior conference committee report that is before us. 
   I noted that that authorization for $50 million in funding, coupled with an appropriation for $10 million that would be distributed in this fiscal year, does not specify who is to get the $50 million authorization. The authorization language does not require that the money be delivered to the State of Illinois. It says the money will be delivered to an entity that will be selected later by the Department of the Interior in consultation with the Governor of the State of Illinois. 
   I have been concerned by the wide open nature of that language. When you think about wording a bill that money will be funneled to an entity that is going to be selected later, we do not know what that entity is. That raises cause for concern. What happens if that money falls outside of the hands of State or Federal officials altogether and is in private hands? Will there be any controls on it at all? 
   I also mentioned that I was concerned, if this money did go to the State of Illinois--it may well go to the State of Illinois--the State would probably hand it over to its Capital Development Board. 
   I noted that the Illinois Capital Development Board, which builds many of the State's buildings, such as prisons, built the State of Illinois Building in the city of Chicago, IL. They have an unusual provision in the general State procurement code, a highly irregular and unusual provision, that allows the Capital Development Board to establish ``by rule construction purchases that may be made without competitive sealed bidding and the most competitive alternate method of source selection that shall be used.'' 
   I pointed out that with this lack of a hard and fast requirement, if the money were to flow to the State of Illinois, and the Capital Development Board were to construct this library, the Capital Development Board, by their own statute, would have the authority to opt out of competitively bidding this project. 
   I do not think a project of any magnitude, paid for by the taxpayers, should be done without competitive bidding. Obviously, there is too much potential for abuse. We want to make sure we get the best value for the taxpayers. It would be irresponsible for  the Congress to not require competitive bidding, in my judgment, and not just on a small project but most particularly for a very large project such as this, a $120 million project. 
   I also want to note--to give some scale to the size of a $120 million building--we have some Illinois structures and cost comparisons. The source for this is the State Journal-Register, the newspaper in Springfield, IL, from a May 1, 2000, article. 
   They said that the estimated cost, adjusted for inflation, of building the Illinois State Capitol in today's dollars would be $70 million. So $120 million is much more expensive. The Lincoln Library would be much more expensive than the State capital. 
   There is another building in Springfield that is worth $70 million. That is the Illinois State Revenue Department building, the Willard Ice Building, built in 1981 to 1984. It would probably cost about $70 million to build. That is a huge building. 
   The Prairie Capital Convention Center: It is estimated to have cost $60 million in today's dollars. 
   The Abraham Lincoln Library will be much more expensive 
   than all of these very major buildings in Springfield, IL. On a project of this magnitude, obviously we need to have the construction contracts competitively bid. 
   In discussing the State procurement code, I noted that the State Capital Development Board had the ability to opt out of competitively bidding projects. It was for that reason, when I saw the language of this measure that originally came over to us from the House, I decided we ought to look at attaching tougher guidelines. 
   We compared the State procurement code to the Federal procurement code, and I determined that in order that we not have to worry about the State opting out of competitive bidding, and in order that we not have to worry about some other flaws in the State procurement code, we would instead attach the Federal guidelines. 
   When I was in Springfield as a State senator for 6 years, back in 1997 I voted for the current State procurement code. It is indeed some improvement over the old State procurement laws. Nonetheless, it does have some problems and it could be better. I regret that I missed the loophole that allows the Capital Development Board to opt out of competitively bidding a project. 
   I also discussed, at length, yesterday how the Capital Development Board was sending around a letter saying they would competitively bid this project, no matter what. They also suggested that their rules require them to competitively bid this project. 
   That contention is conclusively demolished by the language of the State statute, which shows that they do not have to competitively bid. They are sending out a letter saying they would competitively bid. Obviously, that does not create a legal requirement. They sent the letter to me. Maybe it creates a contractual obligation to me, but it does not make them legally accountable in the bidding process. How can you hold someone accountable if the code is optional? That is the problem with the State procurement code. 
   Furthermore, I noted, when I had a discussion with Senator DURBIN--he, of course, along with all other Senators in this body, supported the passage of the Senate provision which required competitive bidding in accordance with the Federal guidelines. However, he did raise the question, How would the State be able to adapt itself so it would apply the Federal competitive bidding guidelines? 
   I pointed out that the State code contemplates, in fact, that from time to time Federal guidelines will be attached on grants from the Federal Government and that the State has statutory authority to adopt all its forms and procedures in order to make sure they can comply with guidelines imposed by the Federal Government, much in the same way the State would have to comply with any guidelines the Federal Government gave along with funding for education, for health care for the indigent, for Medicaid dollars, or the like. Absolutely, there is nothing wrong with that, nor is there anything unusual about that. That is why the State contemplates it in its procurement code. 
   I also reviewed, at length, the context in which this debate has occurred. I read a series of articles from publications throughout the State of Illinois into the RECORD. Those articles discuss the various contexts in which competitive bidding had come up before in the awarding of construction contracts, of leases for State buildings, of licenses for riverboats. 
   I also discussed loans the State had given out back in the early 1980s to build luxury hotels, loans that never were repaid, and it seemed the borrowers had never really been held fully accountable. 
   I told you that from my experience of several years in the Illinois State legislature, I could not casually dismiss this history. It is seared in my memory from many bruising battles I had when I was a State senator in the Illinois State Senate from 1993 to the end of 1998. 
   Finally, we asked the question whether the Lincoln Library is another one of those insider deals, such as the ones we discussed when we read into the RECORD stories of leases of State buildings to the State in which it seemed the people who owned the property made out real well but the State seemed to be paying very exorbitant rental rates, and also mishaps that we had with construction projects in the past. 
   We described how, with the very lucrative Illinois riverboat licenses, some of which could be worth in the hundreds of millions of dollars each, the minute you got one of those riverboat licenses, you would have the ability to earn in some cases $100 million a year, and that these licenses could be considered extremely valuable. They would probably sell on the open market for many times the amount of annual earnings that would accrue to one of those licenses. 
   We described how those very valuable licenses were given out in the State of Illinois on a no-bid basis for a total consideration of $85,000 apiece. I described how I thought that was wrong, that those licenses, instead of being handed out as political bonbons to connected political insiders who happen to be longtime, big-dollar contributors to both sides of the aisle, that we should not have just given them away like that. They should have been competitively bid, and the people who wanted those lucrative licenses should not have been going through the legislature or through a gaming board made up of officials handpicked by the Governor to see who would become the next multimillionaire in the State of Illinois. 
   Had we had competitive bidding for those riverboat licenses, then we might not have had all the articles written about how it was that only a handful of politically connected people just happened to wind up being the ones who got these phenomenally lucrative gambling licenses. 
   They were lucrative licenses not only because they were gambling licenses but because they were monopoly licenses. There could be only 10 riverboats in the State of Illinois. If there could only be 10 restaurants or 10 hotels in the State of Illinois, then the license to operate one of those restaurants or hotels would be very valuable as well. 
   We reviewed at length all the problems that happened and all the questions that get raised when a governmental body gives out privileges or contracts or leases without tight procedures to make sure that political favoritism does not enter into the equation and without tight guidelines to make sure there is a fair and equitable competitive bidding process. 
   After this whole discussion, in which some names of prominent political people seemed to be coming up again and again and again in many of the articles, we finally arrived at the question, is this Abraham Lincoln Library to be built in Springfield--the construction has not started yet; it is scheduled to start on Lincoln's birthday next year, 2001; they have awarded some architecture and engineering contracts and some design contracts--just another insider deal? We concluded that it may or may not be. We won't know until it is done, until we see how it is done. But we concluded that, clearly, given the whole history of problems we have seen again and again and again in recent State history with the awarding of construction contracts, leases, privileges, licenses, that we ought to do our very best to prevent this project from becoming just one more insider deal. And  we noted what a horrible, ugly irony it would be if a monument to ``Honest Abe'' Lincoln, 
   arguably our country's greatest President, wound up having any taint at all. 
   That is what we are seeking to avoid. We should do our very best to prevent it from becoming an insider deal. 
   Moreover, we have many red flags that have to be taken into account. We have the price increases from $40 to $60 to now $120 million. We have the location of the library. The library site has recently been selected. This is a map of Springfield. This is the State Capitol complex. This is where Abraham Lincoln's home is. It is now run by the National Park Service. There is, in fact, an entire neighborhood that has been renovated and kept up to look as we think it looked in the day and age that Abraham Lincoln and his family lived there. 
   This is where the Capital Convention Center is. This is where the Abraham Lincoln Library is now planned. That was the site selected. Maybe that is the best site. I don't know. One may never know. It is close to the old State Capitol, which Abraham Lincoln actually served in and spoke in when he was a State legislator. It is near the Abraham Lincoln law office. Is it the best site? I don't know. Did political favoritism come into consideration in selecting that site? I don't know. We don't know. 
   One thing is interesting, though. This hotel, the Renaissance Springfield Hotel, is very close to the proposed library. That is the hotel that, as we discussed yesterday, was built with taxpayer money in the form of a State loan given out back in the early 1980s. The loan was never paid back, though some payments were made on the loan. The people who got the loan still own the hotel and still manage it. Presumably if the Lincoln Library results in increased tourism revenue and more people coming to visit the city of Springfield, there will be a lot of tourist dollars. Some projections estimate as much as $140 million in tourist revenue will be added by the construction of the library in Springfield. Certainly some of that would probably accrue to the benefit of those who have the Renaissance Springfield Hotel. 
   The price increases, the location of the library, we note these things. We note the involvement of individuals whose names have come up in the past and were described again and again in many of the articles read into the RECORD. And we note the general problem that the State has had with projects such as this in the past. 
   Given all these red flags, isn't it appropriate that we be extra careful and that we do everything we can to ensure that the project be appropriately competitively bid? It is for that reason that I attached the Federal competitive bid guidelines when the authorization bill came into the Senate. These guidelines were adopted unanimously in the Senate Energy Committee and, ultimately, the whole Senate unanimously adopted these guidelines and sent the bill back to the House. 
   We are here today because we have to vote on the Interior conference committee report which has appropriations for the project tucked in, but with the Senate requirements for competitive bidding in accordance with Federal guidelines stripped out. It is the fact that those competitive bid guidelines are not contained within the authorization and appropriations for the library in this Interior conference committee report that I am here on the floor of the Senate. 
   Mr. President, this debate, as I have said, goes to the very heart of the appropriations process itself. We need to take great care with the taxpayers' money. The money represents precious hours of hard work, sweat, and time away from their families. The American people are fundamentally generous and they will permit reasonable expenditures for the good of their country and their communities. The people of Springfield, IL, are as generous as any, and they are as fine a people as any. 
   I have heard more from the people of Springfield, IL, than from anywhere else in my State about the importance to them of having an honest and ethical bidding process on this library that they hope will be a credit to their community for ages to come. But while the people are generous and they are willing to permit us to make reasonable expenditures in support of our States and communities, the taxpayers do expect that they not be abused. We need to do our best to make sure there are sufficient safeguards so that the people can know their hard work is not being trampled on, that politically connected individuals are not deriving private profit at the expense of the taxpayers, all under the guise of a public works project. 
   I know that in this Chamber our remarks go out to the entire country. I am well aware of it in this debate because our office is receiving correspondence from people all over the United States who find interesting what has happened in Illinois. But I want to address these remarks now exclusively to the people of my State--the land of Lincoln--Illinois. 
   In a very short time now, the Senate will soon take a vote on the Interior appropriations conference report. This is the vehicle that contains the Lincoln Library provisions we have been talking about in this filibuster. 
   When the Senate votes, we will lose because the Interior bill itself is a bill with considerable support for projects around the country--it is an $18 billion bill that literally has implications for every State in the Nation--my colleagues will vote for it. Even those who, along with me, believe the Lincoln Library should have Federal competitive bidding rules attached to the money that will be appropriated today will do so. 
   As I have noted, all Members of this body, earlier this week, voted in favor of Federal competitive bidding guidelines for this project when we had a vote just on that narrow issue. We cannot have a vote to take out the language that is in the conference committee report that does not require the competitive bidding. These are the rules of the Senate. 
   However, when the vote is called and we lose, I do not want the people of Illinois to be discouraged by the difficulties we have encountered. If nothing else, from the materials we have introduced into the RECORD, it is clear that the political culture of Illinois is entrenched and formidable--so entrenched and formidable that a simple provision such as competitive bidding could become controversial. 
   Our effort in these last couple of days is just a baby step. Real change can only come as the people of Illinois see more, know more, and gradually come to realize that they do indeed have the power to make it different. Real change comes from the bottom, from the people up. All those of us in this body can do is observe, think, exercise our very best judgment, and then make the case. 
   Today and yesterday, we have made the case. In a little while, the opponents of our simple competitive bid requirement will prevail. But the next time you hear of leases, or loans, or capital projects, or riverboat licenses going to political insiders, you will remember this debate; and together we will rejoin the fight and redouble our efforts for the next time. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time to the occupant of the chair, Senator VOINOVICH from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, the Senator from Washington has requested that he be allowed to speak before me beginning at about 11:10. I would like to go after Senator GORTON because he is only going to speak for about 10 minutes. I will speak for an extended period following Senator GORTON's remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I am here to speak on the $120 million Abraham Lincoln Library, for which there is authorization language in the Interior Subcommittee appropriations bill. 
   Last night, the Senate passed separate legislation authorizing $50 million of Federal funds for the construction of the Abraham Lincoln Library in Springfield, IL. The library is intended to be built with a mixture of State and Federal funds. The total cost of the project would be about $120 million. 
   The Senate, in adopting its authorizing language, attached an amendment, that I put on, that required this library, this monument for ``Honest Abe'' Lincoln--that all the construction contracts on it be competitively bid in accordance with the Federal competitive bid guidelines. 
   That language cleared the full Senate last night. The Senate went on record in favor of a requirement that this Abraham Lincoln $120 million library carry with it the requirements that all contracts be competitively bid in accordance with Federal procurement law, the purpose of which is to prevent political favoritism in the awarding of construction contracts and also to get the best value for the taxpayer. 
   I rise to speak on the Subcommittee on Interior appropriations bill because there is language in the bill that authorizes $50 million in Federal funding over several years for construction of the Abraham Lincoln Library. However, the language requiring competitive bidding of the construction contract has been stripped out of the conference report. 
   The Governor of Illinois is opposed to the attachment of Federal competitive bidding guidelines and apparently asked for House assistance to go around the Senate, which has spoken on this issue and gone on record in favor of the Federal competitive bid guidelines. 
   I support construction of the Abraham Lincoln Library in Springfield, IL. If it is done properly, it could be a wonderful treasure, not only for the city of Springfield and for the State of Illinois but, indeed, for the entire Nation. Of course, Springfield, IL, is where ``Honest Abe Lincoln'' lived. He lived there for many years. He is responsible for making it the State capital of Illinois. When Abe Lincoln served in the State legislature in the early part of the 1800s, he was successful in leading a drive to move the State capital from Vandalia to Springfield, IL. For several years, he represented Sangamon County in both the Illinois Legislature and later for a period in the U.S. Congress. Of course, his debates for the Senate seat with Stephen Douglas of Illinois in 1858 are legendary. 
   I am very proud to hold the seat in the Senate that Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas vied for in 1858, before, of course, Abraham Lincoln went on, in 1860, to be elected the first Republican President of the United States and one of our greatest Presidents ever. 
   There are several Lincoln attractions in Springfield, IL. 
   I am sure many of my colleagues and many of the people in the gallery have visited Lincoln's home in Springfield, IL, which is run by the National Park Service. It is maintained with a great deal of care. It is a wonderful attraction. I went there as a boy, and I have returned there many times since. Senator DURBIN and I both have our Springfield district offices in the Lincoln home neighborhood, which has been renovated and restored to the way it was when Abraham Lincoln and his family lived there prior to his becoming President. 
   We also have in Springfield the Abraham Lincoln law office. One can actually go into the very same building in which Abraham Lincoln practiced law for many years in Springfield. He rode the circuit. He did not just practice law in Sangamon County but practiced law all over central Illinois. 
   In recent years, we have turned up many original legal pleadings and filings drafted by Abraham Lincoln. Many of those documents are now scattered all over the State of Illinois. It would be a wonderful achievement if we could finally have one great Lincoln Library in Springfield to bring all the Lincoln artifacts in the possession of the State of Illinois, as well as whatever members of the public donate for this library, into one tasteful, well thought out monument to the man who is arguably the greatest President of the United States, the one who saved our Union at its hour of maximum peril. 
   I am concerned that if we don't have tight controls over taxpayer money that is going to build this library, we run the risk of winding up not with a $120 million Abraham Lincoln Library but instead a $50 million building that just happens to cost $120 million. I think there could be no worse or uglier irony than to have a monument for ``Honest Abe'' wind up being a gigantic public works project on which a bunch of political insiders wind up lining their pockets at taxpayer expense. 
   Let me share some background on the Abraham Lincoln Library, where the idea first started, and how it has changed over the years. I think my colleagues will see that I have reason to be concerned about the growing cost of the project and certainly the magnitude of it within the city of Springfield. 
   This is a time line: ``The Lincoln Library Project Time Line and Interesting Facts.'' 
   Back in February 1998, then-Governor Jim Edgar proposed construction of the Lincoln Presidential Library in Springfield and committed $4.9 million in State funds for initial planning and design. At that time, the projected cost of the project was not $120 million. The projected cost was $40 million. They said it was going to come from State, local, and private funds. 
   Later on, in May of 1998, the project was no longer a $40 million project. It had grown 50 percent in those few months. It was now a $60 million project. According to the Copely News Service, on May 13, 1998, the estimated cost of the Lincoln Library was raised to $60 million, an increase of 50 percent. Senator DURBIN and my predecessor, Carol Moseley-Braun, and Sid Yates, who was at that time the ranking member on the House Interior Committee, were seeking $30 million in Federal commitment for the project. They wrote that the State and the city of Springfield were willing to commit up to $30 million in funds to match Federal support. That was May of 1998. We had gone from $40 million up to $60 million. 
   By April 1999, less than a year later, the project price tag had gone up again, this time a little bit more significantly. ``Illinois Historic Preservation Association authority spokesman  says library may cost as much as $148 million.'' We have gone from $40 to $60 million, and now we are at $148 million. I believe, now, today, since April 1999, they are talking about $115 or $120 million. Gratefully, the cost or the projected cost has gone down from April 1999. We are talking today about a $115 or $120 million project. That is a big building for Springfield, IL. 
   These are Illinois structures and cost comparisons. This is taken from a State Journal-Register article of May 1, 2000. The State Journal-Register is the newspaper in Springfield, IL. They apparently did some figuring and estimated the cost, adjusted for inflation, of many of the other prominent buildings in the city of Springfield, IL. 
   Our State capitol in Illinois was built between 1868 and 1888. The estimated cost, adjusted for inflation, of constructing the State capitol in Springfield, IL, is $70 million. The State Historical Library, constructed from 1965 to 1968, would cost $13 million to build today. Keep in mind that with this project--the Lincoln Library--we are talking about a $120 million building. The State Library, redone in 1990, was $6 million; Lincoln's Tomb, done in 1865, $6 million. The Dana-Thomas House, a Frank Lloyd Wright home, which I believe the State owns and manages, built between 1902 and 1904, would cost $9 million. 
   Now, the State has a revenue department. It is one of the largest departments of the State, and it has a fairly new building that goes back to the early eighties, one of the very large State office buildings in Springfield that was built between 1981 and 1984. The estimated cost, adjusted for inflation, of building it today is $70 million. They have a gigantic convention center in Springfield called the Prairie Capitol Convention Center, constructed between 1975 and 1979. The estimated cost, adjusted for inflation, of building that giant Capitol Convention Center today would be $60 million. 
   There are also some very notable private buildings in Springfield, IL, that are quite large and significant. One is the Franklin Life Insurance Company building, built between 1911 and 1913. The estimated cost, adjusted for inflation, of building it today is $44 million. The Horace Mann Insurance Company building, built from 1968 to 1972, would be $34.5 million. 
   So, again, the Abraham Lincoln Library is going to be almost twice as costly as any of these other buildings--almost twice as costly as the State capitol, even though the capitol, I believe, is projected to be about two times the size of the projected Abraham Lincoln Library. We are talking about a very substantial building. It is interesting to note, as well, that the Ronald Reagan Library--a Presidential library which opened in 1991--cost $65 million. 
   I have indicated to you the magnitude of this project as being something that caused me to really focus on the details of the taxpayer money involved. I noted the size and scope of the construction project, how it had grown from $40 million to $60 million to $120 million in projected costs over a very short period of time. But I also want to refer you to the language in the Interior conference report now on the floor of the Senate, which has come over to us from the House. 
   The language in the conference report does not tell the people of this country to whom the $50 million is going to be paid. The language of the conference committee report says the $50 million will go to an entity that will be selected later. We are talking about $50 million. Everybody is acting under the assumption that this money is going to be given to the State of Illinois. I think it should be noted that there is no requirement in the conference committee report that is before the Senate that this money is required to go to a public source, such as the State of Illinois. It is required to go to ``an 
   entity'' that will be selected later. Now, could that be a private entity? It appears to me it could because there is nothing in the conference committee report that would prevent it from being paid to a private entity. It says an entity that will be selected later by the Secretary of the Department of the Interior in consultation with the Governor of Illinois. 
   Now, under the language as it is worded, they could possibly give that $50 million to an individual. I hope that will not happen. I hope the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor of Illinois will not decide to take $50 million of taxpayer money and give it to an individual. But they could under the language before the Senate. There would be no violation of the law if they did. They could also give it to a private corporation. There would be no violation of this conference committee report if the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Governor of Illinois, steered this money to a private corporation. If that were to happen, this money would just have gone out of the public's hands and out of the public control into an area where we could no longer really put much in the way of restrictions on what they did with it. Pretty much the only requirement in the conference report is that this entity, to be designated or selected later, will have to show its plans for the construction of the library. 
   There is a private entity out there called the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library Foundation. As far as I can tell, this is a private, not-for-profit corporation that has filed with the Illinois secretary of state's office on June 20, 1990. It has an address of 10 South Dearborn Street, Suite 5100, Chicago, IL. The registered agent's name is J. Douglas Donafeld. I recall Mr. Donafeld as a lawyer in Chicago who does lobby work in Springfield. The corporation's name is the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library Foundation. This foundation, according to published reports that I have read, has three directors on its board--a Mrs. Julie Cellini, who is head of the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; Lura Lynn Ryan, the First Lady of the State of Illinois; and Pam Daniels, the wife of Lee Daniels, the Republican leader in the Illinois State House of Representatives. I hope the Governor of Illinois and the Secretary of the Interior will not give these public funds to the private corporation called the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library Foundation because, if that were to happen, then no one's competitive bid laws, no one's procurement laws would be attached and the money could really be out of the taxpayers' control. 
   Assume, for the sake of argument, that this $50 million in Federal money would not be given to a private individual or a private corporation and that the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor of Illinois would want it sent to the State of Illinois. I think it is a reasonable assumption that the State of Illinois would turn the money over to the State Capitol Development Board, which usually builds State buildings such as this--builds State prisons and has built the State of Illinois building in downtown Chicago. It is a reasonable assumption that if the entity selected to receive the $50 million is not a private entity, the money would go to the State and the State would turn it over to the Capitol Development Board, which is known as the CDB for short. 
   The State contends that if the money is handled by the CDB, the State's procurement law for its competitive bidding laws that applies to the CDB and to other State agencies, such as Central Management Services, and apparently most of the rest of the State government, that its code would apply to the construction of this library and that its code would require competitive bidding of the project. 
   The Governor of Illinois contends that there is no need for the Federal competitive bidding guidelines to be attached because in his judgment the State procurement code is sufficient. 
   He also points out that I, PETER FITZGERALD, Senator from Illinois, when I was a State senator representing the northwest suburban Chicago area district in the Illinois State Senate, voted for that procurement code. Indeed, I did in 1997. I believed that code appeared to represent an improvement over the prior procurement code in the State of Illinois. But I regret that there was a loophole in that State's procurement code that I missed in 1997. I regret that I missed it, and I want to make doubly sure that we don't repeat another loophole in this particular project. I didn't recognize this loophole until I sat down and compared the State code side by side with the Federal code. 
   In my judgment, there are two main problems with the State's competitive bid code. 
   There are many instances in the State procurement code where there  are fairly narrow exceptions to the general requirement for purchases of goods and equipment, building construction contracts, and leases. There are some narrow exceptions sprinkled throughout the code to the general requirement that the project be competitively bid with an overall push towards trying to get the lowest cost bid built into the code. But most of the exceptions built into the code to the competitive bid requirements are fairly narrow. 
   If the State does not use competitive bidding to buy something, they typically will have to give notice and file written reasons for not going forward with competitive bidding. 
   But here is a loophole. And here is why this loophole is relevant to this major gigantic project. 
   Within the part of the State procurement code that deals with the Illinois Capital Development Board, which, as I have explained, is the board or State agency that would be required to construct the Abraham Lincoln Library, provided the Governor of Illinois and the Secretary of Interior don't channel the $50 million in Federal money to a private entity outside the control of anybody but the board of directors of that corporation, the Capital Development Board has a special section in the procurement code. They have a special exemption. 
   Let us read the Capital Development Board special exemption. You don't need to be a lawyer to understand that this is a rather broad loophole in the portion of the Illinois Capital Development Board's procurement code. 
   This is from an Illinois statute. This is binding law in the State of Illinois, passed by the Illinois General Assembly, and signed into law by the Governor of Illinois. 
   30 I.L.C.S. 500/30-15: (b) says:  
   Other methods. The Capital Development Board shall establish by rule construction purchases that may be made without competitive sealed bidding and the most competitive alternate method of source selection that shall be used.  
   The code clearly contemplates that the Capital Development Board shall not have to use competitive bidding; that they can opt out of competitively bidding for this construction contract. That language is plain as day. 
   The Capital Development Board, in seeking to oppose my amendment which requires the application of Federal competitive bid laws, has circulated a letter that says they have to competitively bid the project under State law. However, their letter makes no reference or attempts to abut this provision of State law. 
   Here is what their letter says:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, there have also been a number of problems involving Illinois leases that go back a number of years. I turn my attention to an examination of State leasing practices. We have, thus far, been dealing with the State procurement code, how it bids out projects for construction, but also part of that code governs how the State handles its leases and whether it competitively bids leases for office space or other space that the State of Illinois may give. 
   In an examination of this overall context of insider deals that have happened and swirled around and been going on in Springfield for a very long time, I want to focus on a couple of articles that go back a little bit further to December 29, 1992. 
   There was at that time a series that was run in the Chicago Tribune that was called ``Between Friends. In the new era of patronage, the politically connected get something better than jobs--lucrative government leases.'' 
   This article I am going to read is the third in a series. The headline is ``Helping Their Cronies Is The Lease Politicians Can Do.'' The byline is by Ray Gibson and Hanke Gratteau:  
   Before Paul Butera decided to shut down and sell his grocery at 3518 W. Division St., his telephone started ringing. 
   The interest in his property, an enormous parking lot backstopped by a single-story brick structure of 30,000 square feet, astonished him. 
   Located in a working-class area, the grocery had served Butera's family well for four years. But business had waned since a large grocery complex opened nearby. Although he had yet to list the property with a real estate broker, Butera began getting calls about whether the Humboldt Park property was for sale. 
   ``The property got very hot very fast,'' he recalled. 
   Several weeks before Butera closed the deal in July 1991, he learned the buyer planned to convert the grocery into office space and rent it to the state for the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services. 
   Unbeknownst to Butera, the state and the buyer, Victor J. Cacciatore, Sr., had hammered out the details of the lease four months before Butera sold the property. 
   The lease was signed in apparent violation of state purchasing laws that require disclosure of building and land owners. State officials signed the lease relying on Cacciatori's representation that he was the owner of the building, said Helen Adorjan, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Central Management Service, or CMS. 
   The state has done business with Cacciatore for decades, and, for just as long, Cacciatore had been a faithful campaign contributor. 
   Patronage, the process of rewarding political cronies at taxpayers' expense, has been big business in Illinois. Even though court decisions and taxpayers' outrage largely have stopped the practice of putting supporters on the public payroll, elected officials still find ways to divide the spoils. 
   Contracts are the mother lode for a new age of patronage. Deals to lease properties, perform services and produce goods for the state are now a $4.6 billion-a-year industry, a business that has more than doubled in the last decade. 
   The state's need to house its burgeoning bureaucracy has been a gold mine for those seeking to lease land and offices to the state. From 1981 to 1991, the state's rental costs climbed to $104 million annually, a 177 percent increase. Those with connections, such as Cacciatore, are cashing in. 
   The state's landlords include major donors to the gubernatorial campaigns of James Thompson and Jim Edgar. In the last four years, Edgar's campaign fund has received more than $178,000 from people who lease offices to the state, disclosure forms show. 
   Those people include Cacciatore, who has contributed at least $9,000 to Edgar's campaign fund and has received two state leases since Edgar took office. During the final seven years of the Thompson administration, Cacciatore donated more than $27,000 to Thompson's campaign. During that time, he was awarded five state leases. 
   The DCFS deal marked the second time Cacciatore had offered to rent to the state the building he did not own. Records show he first proposed the Division Street grocery as an office building in March 1990, more than 15 months before he bought it. 
   Other large states have specific procedures to secure property, but Illinois' methods are much more fluid, said Michael Bartletti, manager of the Bureau of Property Management for CMS, the leasing agent for most state departments. Requirements vary according to geographic and agency needs, he said.  
   For example, sometimes the state publishes an advertisement seeking potential sites. Sometimes it does not. Sometimes state leasing agents search specific communities for appropriate buildings, Bartletti said. Sometimes they do not. 
   Bartletti said CMS rules ``encourage'' the obtaining of price quotes on ``two or three sites'' that would meet state needs. The rule, he said, ``encourages competition. It doesn't require it.'' 
   In the Cacciatore deal, the state did not advertise its need for DCFS office space, records show. 
   Instead, CMS officials relied on responses to a year-old advertisement published when the Illinois Department of Public Aid sought similar office space, Adorjan said. 
   Cacciatore had proposed the Division Street grocery as a potential public aid office, Adorjan said, so the site was suggested to DCFS. 
   CMS records on the DCFS office hunt reflect that the agency obtained price quotes on two other locations. But an owner of a building the state said it surveyed told the Tribune that he never was contacted. 
   Records state that officials with CMS contacted an individual named ``Boris Amen,'' who was trying to sell a 28,000-square-foot building at 2950 N. Western Ave. 
   But officials at Advanced Transformer, the owner of the 130,000-square-foot factory at that address, said that they never offered their property to the state and that they did not know Boris Amen. 
   ``I have never had any discussions with the state,'' said Sol Hassom, a vice president for the company. 
   Records also state that CMS obtained a price quote on a lease from owners of a building at 3011 N. Western Ave. No such address or building exists. An owner of a nearby 9,000-square-foot building said he never has offered it for rent. 
   Adorjan acknowledged the records were filled with inaccuracies, but she maintained that the agency obtained other competing prices that are not reflected in the records. 
   ``It is obvious that they are just sloppy records,'' she said. ``They obviously did a sloppy job.'' 
   Records show the state will pay $2.3 million over the next five years to rent the grocery, which Cacciatore bought for $775,000. With his partners, Cacciatore holds seven state leases worth more than $1 million a year. 
   The state is paying $17.05 a square foot for space, utilities and janitorial service for the Humboldt Park building. That rate, according to Realtors, is comparable with rates in fancy Loop high-rise buildings. 
   ``You can do better than that in the Loop,'' said George Martin, a real estate broker. ``You can get $13 (a square foot). What you are talking about out there doesn't even make sense.'' 
   Adorjan said the rent the state is paying was fair and comparable with others in the area. 
   Cacciatore, in a written response to questions, argued that the high rental rate partly reflects remodeling costs needed to meet the state's requirements. 
   Cook County records show Cacciatore's company spent $450,000 on remodeling. According to the lease, Cacciatore will recoup his initial investment and renovation costs within the first three years. 
   Cacciatore's company and appraisers successfully argued earlier this year to lower the property's tax assessment. Their plea was based partly on data showing that the state was paying rent that was $5 a square foot to $6 a square foot above market rates and that, therefore, the rent did not accurately reflect the building's value, county records show. 
   ``Confronted with the pressing need to service the area with a field office and the lack of such appropriate office space, (the state) was willing to pay a rental premium,'' the company's written appeal stated. 
   Cacciatore also has sold property to the state. The state's 1990 purchase of $1.9 million of Cacciatore's property in Lake County for a proposed state highway provoked public outcry there. At his request, the property was rezoned for development, forcing the state to pay 20 times the price it normally pays for vacant land. 
   One south suburban landlord who leases property to the state said renting office space to the state is an insider's game fraught with politics. 
   The landlord, who asked not to be identified, told the Tribune that when he was notified that a state agency was leaving his building in the midst of a long-term contract, state officials told him to see William Cellini, a top Republican fundraiser. 
   ``I was told, `If you want to get a state lease, go see Mr. Cellini,' '' he said. He did not, and the state canceled his lease. 
   Cellini headed the state Transportation Department under Republican Gov. Richard Ogilvie. He has not been a state official in nearly two decades but remains one of Springfield's most influential insiders. His sister Janis is Edgar's patronage chief, and the transportation agency still seeks his counsel, according to former and current officials. 
   ``I chuckle sometimes when I hear some of the stories in Springfield about what all (Cellini) controls. That's not true,'' Edgar said in an interview. 
   Cellini and Cacciatore, along with another former state official, Gayle Franzen, were business partners in 1991 on the purchase of a 140-acre parcel in south suburban Hazel Crest, records show. 
   Franzen said Cacciatore invited him to become a partner on the Division Street grocery, even though Cacciatore told the state he was the sole owner. Franzen said that he declined. Cellini, through an aide, said he had no current interests in any state leases. 
   In addition to holding leases with the state, Cacciatore is a director of Elgin Sweeping Services Inc., which has reaped nearly $40 million in contracts with the state's highway department since 1970, when Cellini headed the department. The contract is based on competitive bidding, but no company has submitted a competing bid in 10 years, state records show. 
   Let me read that sentence again. The State, of course, on this $120 million library, is assuring us that there will be the application of what they call their competitive bid rules. But in this article, it says:  
   The contract is based on competitive bidding, but no company has submitted a competing bid in 10 years, state records show. 
   Some state landlords scoff at the notion that political favoritism influences the way the state shops for land and space. 
   Anthony Antoniou, a Du Page County real estate developer, is among them. His firm holds a lease that is among the state's most expensive, with $5.2 million in annual payments for an unemployment office on Chicago's State Street. 
   Antoniou, a contributor to Thompson and Edgar, said his firm found that politics played virtually no role in the decision to lease his building. 
   Nevertheless, when Antoniou began discussions with the state about possible purchase of the State Street building, he turned to state Sen. Howard Carroll for help. Carroll, a Chicago Democrat, heads the appropriations committee that approves the budget for CMS, the agency trying to buy the building. 
   ``Harold Carroll is a friend,'' Antoniou said. ``He may have given some peripheral help. I met with him through my wife who lobbies (in Springfield).'' 
   Carroll said that Antoniou asked him to find out the status of possible state funds to buy the building. 
   ``We did some checking and we didn't see any funds in the budget,'' Carroll said. 
   Illinois' lease costs are comparable to what officials in New York, Florida and Texas spend on land rights and office space. California, which has nearly twice as many state employees as Illinois and whose real estate costs are notoriously exorbitant, spends more than $270 million a year on leases. 
   But the manner in which leases are let in Illinois differs greatly from methods used in Florida, Texas and California. In those states, landlords must submit sealed bids to state officials who are required by law to award leases to the lowest and best competitive bidder. 
   Illinois officials reject the notion of competitive bidding on leases.  
   Let me read that line again:  
   Illinois officials reject the notion of competitive bidding on leases.  
   Competitive bidding has never been popular in Illinois with public officials, and that is what is at stake here on this $120 million Lincoln Library, where objections were made to the U.S. Senate's requirement that Federal competitive bid guidelines be attached to this $50 million authorization for a $120 million building in Springfield, IL. 
   Quoting again:  
   The Tribune found that state rental procedures are so casual that state files on negotiations for some properties are little more than handwritten scrawls of price quotes from building owners. 
   Officials have maintained for more than a decade that state law does not require competitive bidding on leases, despite admonishments from the state auditor general. The absence of competitive bidding, the auditor general has warned, has deprived taxpayers of the ``assurance that its best interests were served.''  
   Let me interject at this point, since this article was written, the State's procurement law has been updated and presumably improved to some extent. But in our discussion and our examination today, we are trying to emphasize that not all loopholes have been closed and that the State rules still allow a high degree of discretion and leave a high amount of decisionmaking authority up to subjective preferences of State officials and that leaving that kind of unchecked discretion in State officials' hands opens the potential for insider abuse of Illinois procurement, whether it is leasing a building, building a building, or buying goods and services from the State. 
   Continuing from the article:  
   The Tribune investigation of state purchasing found that CMS sometimes has disregarded its own internal rules established to ensure fair pricing and competition. 
   In some cases, state agencies seeking to lease space compose written requirements that virtually rule out competition. Specifications also have been tailored to steer state agencies to sites owned by the connected, as in the case of a $9.3 million deal in Peoria.  
   Let's back up on that. In some cases, you have the State claiming it has  competitive bidding, but what they do is, State agencies seeking to lease space compose written requirements that virtually rule out competition. They put restrictions on who is eligible to apply. The State did that with how they awarded river boat licenses in Illinois, and we are going to get to that later this afternoon when we examine how the State awarded the phenomenally lucrative 10 river boat licenses that somehow just happened to--I guess it was coincidence--all wind up in the hands of long-time contributors, in many cases, for many of those river boat licenses. 
   Continuing from the article:  
   Twelve days after the Illinois Department of Transportation informed CMS that it had outgrown its district headquarters in Peoria, officials with CMS asked the governor's office if G. Raymond Becker, a multimillionaire real estate developer, was eligible to become a state landlord. 
   The written query, dated March 19, 1990, was necessary because Becker was a Thompson-appointed member of the Illinois Capital Development Board, whose executive director is required by state law to review all state leases. 
   CMS officials wanted to know if Thompson would waive a state conflict-of-interest law prohibiting state officials such as Becker from doing business with the state. 
   Such waivers are somewhat routine in Illinois, but the request was unusual because CMS officials had not yet advertised the state's desire to rent office space in Peoria, records show. 
   But Becker, a member of Thompson's Governor's Club, a circle of campaign contributors whose donations totaled at least $1,000, already was being considered for a state contract for space in the 16-story office building he was constructing in downtown Peoria. 
   Months later, the state published an advertisement from new Peoria space, specifying narrow geographic boundaries that essentially reduced the competition to Becker's building. Another developer, Dianne Cullinan, who had a downtown site under construction next to the state's targeted area, expressed interest but later halted talks after much of her building was leased. 
   Negotiations with Becker, the lone landlord under consideration, lagged for several months. But in January 1991, the deal was completed within a week--the final one of Thompson's tenure. 
   Thompson waived the conflict of interest law for Becker, noting that his proposal--the only one that had been on the table for four months--was the best of two submitted. Yet, records show that neither Cullinan nor anyone other than Becker had submitted a formal proposal. 
   The Becker deal stands to be worth more than $9.3 million over the next 10 years if the state renews the lease after the first five years. IDOT offices fill about one-third of the building, which Becker built with a $3.2 million Peoria city bond and private loans of $8 million. 
   ``It was a very good deal because I am doing much better with the rest of the leases,'' Becker said. The IDOT lease, he said, helped him charge higher rates for the lower floors. By August, shortly before IDOT moved in, two-thirds of the complex had been rented, Becker said. 
   The lease also carried the promise of revitalizing Becker's adjacent properties: a twin-story condominium and a small office complex that have been suffering from high vacancy rates. 
   Whether the deal was as good for taxpayers as it was for Becker is another question.  
   Of course, that line in this article--``Whether the deal was as good for taxpayers as it was for Becker is another question''--kind of goes to the heart of our debate today because we want construction of the Presidential library for Abraham Lincoln in Springfield, IL, to be as great a treasure for and as good a deal for the taxpayers of Illinois and this Nation as it is for everybody who winds up actually building the building or owning other buildings right next to it, which will benefit from the tourism that comes in.  
   State officials maintain the Becker lease is less costly than building a Peoria headquarters. 
   They point to a January 1991 study conducted by an outside consulting firm that concluded that over a 10-year period, the state would pay about $11.4 million for construction, operating costs and debt service on a new building, compared with slightly less than $10 million in lease costs in the same period. 
   But the study was based in part on the consultants' assumption that the state would have to acquire land for the project, records indicate. 
   ``We are not aware of other state-owned space in the Peoria area that would be suitable for the (IDOT) space needs,'' the study stated. ``Also, we did not examine the cost of buying and renovating an existing facility....... Additionally, we did not address the availability of bond funds to finance the construction of a potential facility.'' 
   Three years earlier, IDOT had proposed building a Peoria regional headquarters and materials-testing labs on a 34-acre site owned by the state on the city's west side. 
   The price tag at the time was $7.16 million, said Richard Adorjan, an IDOT spokesman. 
   The General Assembly refused to appropriate funds for the project, so the state decided to lease. Adorjan said IDOT was never told about the 1991 study comparing the costs of leasing with the costs of a new building. 
   CMS officials say they never considered the 34-acre site for building because it was ``too rural,'' Bartletti said. 
   The site is 9.3 miles from Peoria's downtown, said a CMS spokesman. IDOT's main headquarters in Springfield is about four miles from downtown. 
   IDOT's former Peoria headquarters, a sprawling brick structure with 36,000 square feet on the city's north end, will continue to house materials-testing labs, but the site soon will be largely abandoned. 
   The IDOT lease was not Becker's only deal with the state. 
   Soon after signing the IDOT lease in Peoria, Thompson aides signed a $1.1 million lease for the Illinois Department of Employment Security to move into a building owned by Becker's business partner, Russell Waldschmidt. Less than a year later, Waldschmidt sold the building to Becker's son, George Raymond Becker, Jr. 
   Later in 1991, the General Assembly restored funding for leased office space for the Illinois Industrial Commission in another Becker-owned building. The five-year lease is worth about $41,000 annually. 
   Becker's construction company also has been a successful competitor for state road building jobs. In 1987 and 1989, his company was the low bidder on two contracts worth nearly $2 million for paving and resurfacing state highways near Peoria, an IDOT spokesman said. 
   Becker and his partner, Waldschmidt, said Becker's status as a confidant to the Thompson administration played no role in landing the leases. 
   But administration sources said Thompson's aides demanded that the transportation agency lease be signed before Thompson left office. Some top administrators had favored putting the lease on hold, a common practice during transitions, since it would bind Edgar's administration to the pact. Their concerns, however, were overruled by Thompson's key aides, according to interviews. 
   Even after Thompson left office, he continued to turn to his old friend for favors. Several months after Thompson left the Executive Mansion, the developer lent his private airplane to the former Governor to fly to Jackson, Miss., for a Republican Party function, according to a Thompson spokeswoman. 
   CMS officials have been at loggerheads with the state Auditor General's office for more than a decade because of their insistence that state law does not require leases to be competitively bid.  
   Again, what we are talking about here is competitively bidding a construction contract. The House has taken a position in opposition to the Senate's requirement on an appropriation of $50 million to the State of Illinois that that money be competitively bid, that the construction contracts be competitively bid in accordance with the Federal law. The House position on this, to date, is that the project not carry that restriction and that States' so-called competitive 
   bid guidelines are adequate. 
   We are here examining some of the problems that have occurred in recent memory in the State of Illinois regarding leases, construction projects, and the like, which really weren't what we would think should be a proper competitive bidding and where there has been some slippage.  
   State purchasing laws, a hodgepodge of more than 100 provisions adopted over the years, make no mention of leases. And a 1981 report by state auditors found that 96 percent of the state's leases were awarded without bid.  
   That is why there are so many articles inches thick and investigative reports, over many different administrations and many Governors in the State of Illinois, of deals that appeared to involve, or may have involved, or the writers thought involved, political favoritism.  
   CMS has argued that because leases are not specifically included among the goods and services required to be competitively bid, they are exempt from bidding. State auditors have argued that because leases are not listed among the exemptions, they must be bid. 
   There is no way to competitively bid real estate, said the CMS' Bartletti. 
   Simply put, there are no two real estate parcels in the world that are alike. Real estate is exclusive by definition. There is only one parcel at a certain intersection. Location is everything in real estate, he said. 
   Among the State purchasing reforms to be proposed in the general assembly's spring session will be a requirement to bid leases competitively, said State Senator Judy Barr Topinka (R-Riverside). 
   The proposed reform, Topinka said, is prompted largely by ``the scandal'' created  by a lease state officials signed in 1989 to rent the shuttered St. Anne's Hospital on Chicago's West Side. 
   State officials needed the building to house patients from the Illinois State Psychiatric Hospital, which had to be closed for extensive renovations. 
   Taxpayers will end up paying $16.1 million for a four-year lease of the hospital, including costs of transferring patients, mainly because the lease failed to shield the state from huge repair bills. 
   The state could have bought the building for $3 million.  
   Let's review that again.  
   State officials needed the building to house patients from the Illinois State Psychiatric Hospital, which had to be closed for extensive renovations. 
   Taxpayers will end up paying $16.1 million for a four-year lease of the hospital, including costs of transferring patients, mainly because the lease failed to shield the state from huge repair bills.  
   The State could have bought the building for $3 million. 
   The State could have bought it for $3 million. But they will end up paying $16 million for a 4-year lease of the hospital. 
   In that difference between $16.1 million and $3 million, look at the money that was lost for the taxpayers. How many taxpayers had to work how many hours? How many couples had to struggle working 2, or 2 1/2 , or 3 jobs to pay their taxes to the State of Illinois and to the Federal Government just to see that money go to State officials? 
   Some might conclude from such articles that in many cases when there are not proper controls, what the State officials wind up doing with that taxpayer money is really tantamount to lighting a match to it. 
   I now move on to another issue that has been talked about in Illinois for a very long time. It actually goes back to the early 1980s, and it is still a problem for the taxpayers in the State of Illinois. That is the subject of hotel loans given out by the State that were never fully repaid. 
   There are some of these issues that we could highlight on which I am seeking to narrow the focus and ultimately tie all of this back into what is going on down in Springfield. 
   I am going to turn to a discussion of State loans that were made back in the early 1980s for the construction of several buildings around the State, including two hotels: One in Springfield, IL, and the other, as I recall, at Collinsville, IL, which is down in the southern part of the State in the metro East St. Louis area. I am very familiar with both of these hotels. Of course, I see them often on my trips to Springfield and Collinsville. These hotels are actually pretty famous in the minds of many taxpayers because the taxpayers gave loans for the prominent people to develop these hotels and the loans were never fully paid. 
   This article, which comes from the Chicago Sun Times, dated April 26, 1995, is by Tim Novak, who at that time was in Springfield. He wrote this article. The headline is, ``Taxpayers Stuck With $30 Million Hotel Tab.''  
   Illinois taxpayers will lose $30 million today when state Treasurer Judy Baar Topinka closes the books on two hotel loans that former Gov. Jim Thompson and former Treasurer Jerry Cosentino made to political cronies. 
   The hotels owe the state $40.3 million under low-interest loans they got in 1982, but Topinka has agreed to settle their debts for $10 million, the Sun-Times has learned. She plans to announce the deal today. 
   Under the deal, the Springfield Renaissance Hotel headed by Republican power broker William F. Cellini will pay the state $3.75 million of the $19.8 million it owes. 
   The state will also collect $6.3 million from the Collinsville Holiday Inn, partly owned by Gary Fears, who raised money for Democrats and Republicans. The Collinsville hotel owes the state $20.6 million. 
   Topinka said it's the ``best deal'' she could get from the hotels, which have often skipped loan payments while their value has fallen. The deal will save the state at least $6,000 a month it spends to manage the loans. 
   ``The taxpayers are going to take a bath, no question,'' Topinka said. ``But the property is so depressed, we will never get back what we spent. Our little escapade into the hotel business has not been remarkably fruitful. 
   ``I may open myself up to criticism on one hand, but on the other hand, I have got to settle this because the longer this goes on, the more we lose because the property value (of the hotels) keeps going down.'' 
   Former Treasurer Patrick Quinn, a Democrat, said Topinka is giving another sweetheart deal to political insiders. 
   ``These particular individuals ..... are getting off very lightly,'' Quinn said of Cellini and Fears. ``The taxpayers are being fleeced again. They were fleeced when the loans were made. They were fleeced when the loans were refinanced. 
   ``If you foreclosed, you would have assets that you can sell for a greater price than they're getting now,'' Quinn said. He claimed that the hotels are worth far more than the $10 million the owners will pay under Topinka's deal. 
   Local assessors say the hotels are worth a total of $13.2 million--$7.9 million for the Springfield hotel and $5.3 million for the one in Collinsville. 
   Topinka said the hotels are worth only a total of $6.5 million, much less than the $10 million the state will receive. Topinka said the Springfield hotel is worth $3 million and the one in Collinsville is worth $3.5 million. 
   ``I didn't make the (original) deal,'' she said. ``I'm the garbage man trying to clean up.'' 
   The loans were to expire in 2010. The state cannot foreclose on the hotels until 1999, and then only if the debts exceed $18 million on the Springfield hotel and $19.9 million on the Collinsville one. 
   Quinn spent four years trying to get money out of the hotel owners, particularly Cellini, who made millions as the lead investor of the state's first riverboat casino, the Alton Belle. 
   Quinn urged the Illinois Gaming Board to revoke the casino license last year unless Cellini pays off the hotel loan. The board refused, saying the hotel and casino were separate, state-sanctioned deals. 
   Cellini is among 80 investors in the Springfield hotel. He could not be reached for comment. B.C. Gitcho, managing partner of the Collinsville hotel, referred questions to attorney Dan K. Webb, a law partner of Thompson's. 
   Webb, who represents both hotels, could not be reached for comment. 
   Thompson, a Republican, and Cosentino, a Democrat, made the hotel loans in 1982 under the governor's Build Illinois program, designed to create economic development and jobs. 
   Cellini's group, President Lincoln Hotel Ventures, used the money to build a luxurious hotel about six blocks from the state Capitol. Fears' group, Collinsville Hotel. Venture, built a hotel about 20 miles east of St. Louis. 
   The loans originally had a 12.25 percent interest rate. The owners were required to make mortgage payments only in those quarters in which the hotels made profits. The owners often skipped payments, claiming they made no money in those quarters. 
   Before Thompson and Cosentino left office in 1991, the loans were restructured with a new interest rate of 6 percent. The interest was deferred until the principal was paid off. 
   Since 1982, the state has collected $1.3 million from the Springfield hotel and $1.4 million from the Collinsville hotel.  
   Mr. President, there is another article on that hotel loan. I point out at this time the hotel for which that loan was given, that was built in Springfield, IL--one of them was for a hotel in Springfield, the other for a hotel in Collinsville, IL. 
   This is a map of downtown Springfield. This is the State capitol where I used to go when I was a State senator in Springfield for 6 years. This is the Abraham Lincoln neighborhood. Mr. Lincoln's neighborhood is run by the National Park Service. Abraham Lincoln's home is here. Senator DURBIN and I have our Springfield district offices in that neighborhood. It is beautifully maintained to look as it did in Mr. Lincoln's era. 
   Here is the Springfield Convention Center, and next to the Springfield Convention Center we see the Renaissance Springfield Hotel. 
   As we saw that investor deal, headed by Mr. William Cellini from Springfield, they got that $15 million--I believe was the loan--back in the early 1980s. There was an attempt to settle the loan after not much of that money had been paid back. In fact, that settlement that was just described, to my knowledge, never went through. 
   I will continue reading some articles and examining this hotel issue because since it is so close to where the proposed Lincoln Library site is, I think this will give a picture of how this connects together and why in my mind--being familiar with this whole history--red flags were raised. I believed we were on notice that we needed to do everything we could to protect taxpayers' money in the construction of that proposed Lincoln Library, which is a $120 million project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I will speak as long as I need to make the point on this project. I imagine it will be for quite some time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-5-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. All I can say at this time--I hope the Senator will appreciate this--I will need an extended period of time, and I cannot give a good timeframe. You may want to go back to your office. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-6-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I will do that. 
   Turning to a June 5, 1995, Chicago Tribune article, by Rick Pearson, a Tribune staff writer, the headline is: ``Taxpayers Face a Big Loss on Hotel Loans; GOP Insider Denies Political Deal.'' 
   He has achieved a unique and almost mystical aura as a clout-heavy Republican power broker, fundraiser and riverboat gambling captain. 
   But William Cellini says he doubts he will ever be a hotel developer again. 
   Cellini is at the center of a controversy involving a proposal by state Treasurer Judy Baar Topinka to settle $40 million owed to taxpayers on two hotel loans for $10 million. He said he and other investors in the Springfield Renaissance never made a dime and will never see any return. 
   Cellini also maintained that the state has probably recouped the original $120 million lent to developers of the Renaissance, the Collinsville Holiday Inn and 16 other projects because the developers paid 17 percent interest during the construction in the high-interest period of the early 1980s. 
   ``Would I do it again? Never,'' Cellini said in his first public comments on the hotel deal. ``Well, never is a long time. Let's put it this way: I'll never do another one with the government. You're too high-profile, and then everybody comes to these (political) conclusions.' 
   Not that anyone is suggesting any tag days for the 60-year-old Cellini. 
   He has parlayed his position during the 1960s as state transportation secretary under Gov. Richard Ogilvie into influential leases and contracts, a role as head of the road-building Illinois Asphalt Pavement Association, and chairmanship of Argosy Gaming Co., which operates the Alton Belle riverboat casino. Cellini's stake in the riverboat is worth more than $20 million. 
   Yet Cellini disputed the perception that the hotel settlement reached in April with Topinka is a sweetheart deal for himself, the Renaissance's 84 other investors, bipartisan fundraiser Gary Fears and investors in the Collinsville Holiday Inn. 
   Instead, he said, taxpayers will get about $2 million more than the highest bid offered to former state Treasurer Patrick Quinn when he attempted to shop the two hotel loans last year to other investors. 
   In addition, Cellini said, investors in the Springfield hotel put $10.1 million of their money into launching the project, along with the state's $15.5 million loan and a $3.1 million federal urban-development grant.  
   Boy, that is interesting. On that loan for that Springfield Renaissance Hotel, the investors put in $10 billion of their money, the State loaned $15 million of State taxpayers' money, and the Federal Government gave $3.1 million in an urban development grant for that hotel.  
   ``People are saying, `This hotel was built with all state money. Cellini didn't put in anything, and now he's walking away with the marbles.' That isn't true. We put in almost as much as the state, for sure $10 million in cash. And we will never get it back,'' Cellini said. 
   The proposed settlement with Topinka has been put on hold pending review by Atty. Gen. Jim Ryan, another Republican. But under the agreement, Cellini and Renaissance investors would pay the state $3.75 million of the $19.8 million they owe. 
   Meanwhile, the Collinsville Holiday Inn would pay $6.3 million of $20.6 million owed to the state. 
   Topinka, a Republican who took office in January, has said the loans were a ``bad investment'' for the state. She also said the settlement is the ``best deal'' she could get for taxpayers because the properties' values are depressed. 
   The loans, first made in 1982 by then-Gov. James Thompson, a Republican, and then-Treasurer Jerome Cosentino, a Democrat, originally carried a 12.25 percent interest rate. But Thompson and Cosentino revised the loans in 1988 to require mortgage payments only when the hotels were profitable. Few payments were made.  
   That is interesting. The loan was not being fully repaid. Yet in 1998 they revised the loan documents so that mortgage payments only had to be made when the hotel was profitable. And then few payments were made.  
   Shortly before Thompson and Cosentino left officein 1991, the loans again were restructured to call for 6 percent interest, with all payments first applied to principal on the debt. 
   Cellini, who is a general partner of the Renaissance and owns 1.01 percent of the stock, said the original loan, the subsequent restructuring and the settlement plan were normal business deals and didn't involve politics. 
   The projects initially were meant to improve economic development, but they were written down because of market conditions, he said. 
   The lavish Renaissance, five blocks from the Capitol, pays $100,000 a year to help retire bonds used to build an adjacent city convention center. The hotel has a payroll of $2.8 million and pays $1.3 million a year in taxes, he said. 
   ``It isn't that this was different or it was something that just because of political contact there was this discounting,'' Cellini said. ``There isn't a first-class, full-service hotel that was built in Chicago from '85 to today that is not only not paying their mortgage loans but I bet you some of them aren't paying for their operations.'' 
   Cellini also disputed reports from Topinka's office that personal guarantees he signed on the loan were waived by Thompson and Cosentino. Such a waiver would have helpted Cellini when Argosy appeared before the Illinois Gaming Board seeking a license for the Alton Belle casino. 
   But aides to Topinka confirmed Friday that when the hotel was opened, Cellini satisfied the terms of a construction loan and was released from his personal guarantee. 
   Cellini also said that while the hotel had an assessed value of $7 million two years ago, the value of the real estate now is only slightly more than the $3.7 million value of the loan that investors have agreed to pay.  
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from Louisiana be recognized at this time, and that I be rerecognized upon the completion of her remarks and that my rerecognition count as a continuation of my current speech. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-7-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes, for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-8-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I am going to continue speaking about this $120 million proposed Abraham Lincoln Library in Illinois. I realize my colleague from Idaho wishes to be recognized. What I am going to ask is unanimous consent that the Senator from Idaho be recognized for 10 minutes at this time and that I then be re-recognized. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-9-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Continuing on, Mr. President, to bring the Senate back up to date, we are talking about a proposed Abraham Lincoln Library in downtown Springfield, IL, that would cost approximately $120 million. 
   The library would be one of the most expensive buildings in the city of Springfield. The estimated value of the State capitol in Springfield is, I believe, $78 million, in inflation-adjusted dollars. This library would be approximately half the size of the State capitol, but it is a substantial building. It is also going to be very close to the Renaissance Springfield Hotel, which we have been examining in detail this afternoon. 
   The reason I am concerned or have an objection to the conference committee report now before the Senate is that the conference committee report authorizes $50 million in Federal funding for the Abraham Lincoln site but does not carry the requirement that passed out of the Senate that the project be competitively bid in accordance with Federal law. Instead, it would appear the money that is authorized in the conference committee report--instead of having a competitive bid requirement, it says that the $50 million is authorized to go to an entity that will be selected later which would design and construct the library. 
   The language does not make clear that the entity would be a governmental entity. It is possible, based on reading the conference report, that the $50 million could be channeled to private sources. Presumably, that would not happen however. Presumably, the money would be given to the State of Illinois. 
   We have reviewed what would happen if the money were given to the State of Illinois, how the State of Illinois would award construction contracts. Presumably, the State of Illinois would turn the project over to its Capital Development Board. We reviewed and examined earlier today a giant loophole in the Capital Development Board--the statute on procurement that governs the Capital Development Board. They have a right to opt out of competitive bidding. Apparently, in the statute, they can just decide they are not going to have competitive sealed bids on the project. 
   That loophole gives me pause for the reason that I thought we ought to have a tighter set of restrictions. I proposed an amendment that would require that the Federal competitive bid guidelines be attached to the project. I think that would take care of the problem. We are examining in detail the concerns I have and some of the red flags that have occurred to me with this project. 
   I spent 6 years in the Illinois State Senate in Springfield. I have a pretty good idea of how State government operates. I am familiar with many of the people who are involved with this project. After taking a very close look at the project, it originally started out as a $40 million project, then went to a $60 million project. At one time they were talking about a $140-something million project; now it is back down to a $115 million or a $120 million project. They are seeking $50 million from the State of Illinois, $50 million from the Federal Government, and $10 million in essentially tax breaks from the city of Springfield, and possibly the contribution of some land. 
   They are, in addition, creating a not-for-profit corporation that was filed with the office of the Illinois secretary of state in June of this year. They have recently made, are making, or have made--it is not clear which--a request to become registered as an official charity. They could solicit and retain contributions for the Lincoln Library Foundation. They have set an ambitious goal for the foundation of raising somewhere in the neighborhood of $50 or $55 million. 
   I received from published reports that the foundation's board of directors appear to be Mrs. Julie Cellini, who is the head of the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, and Mrs. Laura Ryan, the first lady of the State of Illinois. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-10-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-11-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I would go along with that as long as I could be recognized upon the completion of the remarks of the Senator from Idaho and upon the completion of the remarks of Senator DORGAN, and that my recognition would count as a continuation of the speech I am now delivering on the Senate floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-12-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, reviewing again the proposed Abraham Lincoln Library in Springfield, IL, I emphasize the magnitude of the project. It is a proposed $120 million project. It started as a $40 million project, went up to $60 million, and now it is at $120 million. At one time, it was up to $140 million. 
   Reviewing the cost of other important buildings in the city of Springfield, the estimated cost, adjusted for inflation: 
   The State capitol building built in 1868 to 1888, $70 million. 
   The Willard Ice Building, I believe for the State Department of Revenue, a very large State office building built in 1981 to 1984, took 3 years to construct, $70 million; 
   The Prairie Capitol Convention Center, a large convention center, built in 1975 to 1979, $60 million. 
   This Abraham Lincoln Library will be one of the largest, most important buildings in the city of Springfield. I am supporting the project. However, I want the city of Springfield to get a $120 million library out of the project, not a $50 million library that just happens to cost $120 million. 
   It is for that reason I have tried, and the Senate has tried, to insist that the project be competitively bid. The Senate has gone on record with the legislation that cleared the full Senate last night, unanimously requiring, with our authorization of $50 million for this project, that the Federal rules of competitive bidding, which are set forth in this volume and are very extensive, very well thought out, were worked on by then-Senator Bill Cohen from Maine, now the Secretary of Defense--a lot of thought has gone into these rules. A lot of refinements have been made over many years. They have had to correct problems, and they have gone back to them repeatedly. 
   It has been a great focus of many Senators and Congresspeople in Washington. The intent of the Federal rules is to try to eliminate political favoritism in the awarding of construction contracts. The House has now in the conference committee, with provisions they have inserted into the conference committee, the same authorization that the Senate has backed. However, they struck the language requiring that Federal competitive bidding guidelines be followed. 
   The money is supposed to go to an entity that will be selected later. It is not clear exactly to whom the $50 million taxpayer money will go. It is interesting that Washington passes legislation sending out the money without saying to whom it is going; that is what this provision does. One would think we would be more careful with the taxpayer money and we would know--at least for sure it would be nailed down in law--who was getting the money. Presumably the money would wind up in the hands of the State of Illinois, and if it wound up in the State of Illinois, they would probably give it to their Illinois Capital Development Board for the Illinois Capital Development Board to construct the project in accordance with the Illinois procurement code. 
   Reviewing for the Senators who have just arrived, the Illinois procurement code was at one time one of the weakest, perhaps, in the country. It was strengthened a few years ago, in late 1997. I think changes were made for the better. I supported legislation--I believe it was H.R. 1633--that strengthened those guidelines. When we started to look and study in a more detailed manner how the Federal money would go, and considered what would happen if it went to the State Capital Development Board, we looked carefully at the State's procurement code and a couple of glitches popped out at us. 
   I want to review those glitches. The State's position on this is that if the money goes to the Capital Development Board and they build the library, they have to, under their law, use competitive bidding. It turns out, however, that contrary to the Capital Development Board's assertions, in fact, a contradiction appears in the statute governing the Capital Development Board. The portion of the procurement code that governs the Capital Board is 30.I.L.C.S.5500/30-a. It says:  
   Other methods. The Capital Development Board shall establish by rule construction purchases that may be made without competitive sealed bidding and the most competitive alternate method of source selection that shall be used.  
   That is a great big loophole in the Capital Development Board procurement code. Thus, there is the possibility that if we give this money to the State and do not attach the Federal competitive bidding guidelines, the State could simply opt out of competitively bidding the project. 
   That troubled me greatly, given the magnitude of the project and given a long history in Illinois of what I would say is a fairly acute problem with procurement contracts--in construction and in leasing, particularly. It occurred to me that we needed tighter safeguards. 
   There is another general problem I addressed earlier with the State procurement code, and that is in advance of bidding, even when they do opt to competitively bid, they don't have to tell the bidders what weight and relative importance they are going to attach to the various criteria they must set forth. The State must tell the bidders by what criteria they are going to judge the bids and make awards, but they are not going to tell you what weight they assign to the various criteria. 
   The problem with that is that it is like trying to pin keylime pie to the wall. You can come in with the low bid and the State can say we gave more weight, actually, to the experience of this other bid. It costs a little bit more, but we give more weight to their experience, or vice versa; they could almost always rationalize the acceptance of any bid after the fact and make it very hard to challenge a decision by the State to not accept your bid. Of course, in contrast, the Federal code in that regard is markedly superior. It does a much better job at limiting the discretion of the procurement officers and it does that by requiring that sealed bid solicitations disclose in advance all significant bid evaluation factors and the relative importance of each factor and whether nonprice factors, when combined, will be accorded more, equal, or less weight than price. 
   Of course, the State rules, which do not require the relative importance for weight of the factors to be disclosed, would allow a purchasing officer to pick any bid he wants and explain his decision by saying the one factor for which that bid was better was the most important factor, and any decision could be rationalized after the fact. It would be very hard to challenge any award the State made. 
   Perhaps that could be why, after there have been so many articles and investigative reports written about seemingly, on their face, exorbitant rents or prices on projects, that you don't actually have much of a challenge or any history of prosecutions on that. So I feel the State code really is deficient in those two key respects. I feel the Senate did the 
   right thing by attaching a requirement that the Federal competitive bidding guidelines attach to the project. There is greater protection for the taxpayers if we do that. 
   We have reviewed the history of projects in Springfield. We talked about a State loan given to a partnership that constructed the Springfield Renaissance Hotel. That hotel is located close to where the Abraham Lincoln Library is proposed to be. We talked about some of the problems that have arisen from time to time in the State of Illinois. My goal here is to try to tighten the law so we are not setting the table for another problem to occur with this project, which is, after all, being built as a monument to ``Honest Abe'' Lincoln, perhaps the greatest President in history. We want to make sure the taxpayers get the value of all the resources they are contributing. 
   We have reviewed how the State previously gave out loans to build the hotels. Those loans were never fully repaid. I believe there is still a substantial outstanding balance. We have, thus, in that manner, begun laying before the Senate the context in which my deep concern arises by the lose authorizing language in the conference committee report before the Senate. 
   Now, we read the article ``Taxpayers Stuck With $30 Million Hotel Tab.'' I want to turn to an article that appeared in the Chicago Sun Times on October 6, 1996. It is an article by Tim Novak, Chuck Neubauer, and Dave  McKinney. If I may read this article, the headline is:  
   Cellini State Capitol's Quiet Captain of Clout; Dealmaker Built Empire Working in Background. 
   Outside the state Capitol, William Cellini is just another businessman. 
   Inside, Cellini is one of the most powerful people in state government, a man who has built a personal empire worth at least $50 million through his ties to the governor's office dating back to 1968. 
   This 62-year-old son of a Springfield policeman is perhaps the most feared, respected and invisible man in those halls of power. 
   He's played the system brilliantly--and legally. 
   Cellini has never run for state office, but he's helped run state offices--reviewing choices for the governor's Cabinet, getting scores of people state jobs and at one time even approving all federal appointments in Illinois. 
   His unique access has put him in position for a staggering succession of state-financed deals. 
   He is an owner of the state's first riverboat casino. He got state money to build a money-losing luxury hotel where he throws fund-raisers for Gov. Edgar. He got state funds to build 1,791 apartments in Chicago, the suburbs and Downstate. He manages offices that he developed for state agencies. He invests pension funds for state teachers. And that is just part of his empire. 
   But most of all Cellini has had clout with Illinois governors starting with Richard Ogilvie through James Thompson and now Edgar.  
   Keep in mind, this is an article from 1996. George Ryan is the current Governor of Illinois. Reading again from the article:  
   And those relationships have been mutually profitable: the Governors got cash for their campaigns and Cellini became a multimillionaire. 
   ``I can't recall someone similar to Bill Cellini having that access. And for that long as well,'' said Donald Totten, the Schaumburg Township Republican committeeman who was President Reagan's Midwest coordinator. 
   ``He seems to always have the ears of governors, which are always the most powerful people in government,'' Totten said. ``Thompson-Cellini, Ogilvie-Cellini. Edgar's got his sister on in a major job, so he has influence there.'' 
   Cellini's sister Janis is Edgar's patronage director, in charge of hiring people for the highest level jobs. Both Cellinis accompanied Edgar on a two-week trade mission to Asia last month. 
   Cellini has clout. But money is the foundation of his far-reaching empire. Specifically, his ability to raise cash--primarily from road builders--while rarely giving any of his own money. Cellini raises hundreds of thousands of dollars, mainly for those Republicans, primarily candidates for governor, but also for those seeking the White House like Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Bob Dole. 
   Throughout it all, Cellini has been granted extraordinary powers, clout that elected officials usually reserve for themselves. 
   When Edgar took office, Cellini interviewed candidates for the Cabinet and made recommendations--particularly for state departments that do business with Cellini's companies. 
   ``The reason he's involved in Cabinet selections is Bill Cellini has seen more Cabinet members come and go. He has good instincts about what it takes to be a good Cabinet member,'' said state Sen. Kirk Dillard (R-Hinsdale), who spent three years as Edgar's first chief of staff. 
   Cellini has also spent nearly 30 years helping scores of people get jobs in state agencies, creating what some call a patronage army more loyal to Cellini than any governor. 
   ``He probably knows more people in state government that I do,'' Thompson told the Sun-Times in 1990 as he was winding down his 14 years as governor. 
   Cellini's clout has gone all the way to the White House based on letters and memos from the Gerald R. Ford Library. Under President Ford, Cellini was in charge of all federal appointments in Illinois, according to a letter from Don ``Doc'' Adams, a longtime Cellini friend who was chairman of the Illinois Republican Party when Ford was president. 
   ``As you know Bill Cellini is the man we've designated to coordinate Federal and State appointments for the state of Illinois,'' Adams wrote in 1976 to Ford's personnel director, Douglas Bennett. 
   ``If Doc Adams is telling the White House that Bill Cellini is the guy to go to in Illinois ..... Bill is operating as a political boss without having to be an elected official,'' said a longtime Republican who requested anonymity. 
   It's hard to find people, Republican or Democrat, willing to talk about Cellini and Cellini adds to the intrigue by shunning the spotlight. 
   Cellini ignored numerous requests from the Chicago Sun-Times to discuss his empire and power. Over the past few years, Cellini has placed many of his financial holdings in trusts to benefit his son, William Jr., 27, and daughter, Claudia, 22.  
   Keep in mind this article is from 1996.  
   Often referred to as a Downstate Republican powerbroker, Cellini has numerous business deals in Chicago and the suburbs, often working with businessmen allied with Democrats such as Mayor Daley. 
   Cellini spends so much time in Chicago that he bought a $594,000 condo on Michigan Avenue in 1993 without a mortgage. He also has a $325,000 home without a mortgage in an elite Springfield neighborhood. It's a long way from the Springfield duplex he and his wife, Julie, shared when he went to work for Ogilvie in 1969. 
   ``There's no doubt he's probably done pretty well,'' Edgar said. ``But there are a lot of people who have made money off state government who have never been involved in politics ..... who have never worked a precinct or helped a candidate. 
   ``I think there's a lot of folks who are envious of Bill Cellini.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-13-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I will yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-14-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from North Dakota now be recognized for 20 minutes and that I be rerecognized upon the completion of his remarks and that my rerecognition  count as a further continuation of the speech I began earlier today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-15-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues from North Dakota and Washington. I appreciate this opportunity to continue reading an article from the Chicago Sun-Times dated October 6, 1996. The article is by Tim Novak, Chuck Neubauer, and Dave McKinney, headlined ``Cellini: State Capitol's Quiet Captain of Clout; Dealmaker Built Empire Working in Background.'' 
   As you will understand, if you listen to the articles I am reading, we are ultimately leading up to a tie-in back to the Abraham Lincoln $120 million Presidential library in Springfield, IL. The article earlier discussed the Ogilvie years--Governor Ogilvie's administration in Illinois. And where we last left off was at the beginning of the Walker years. Walker was the Governor of Illinois who succeeded Ogilvie in the early 1970s. 
   Continuing with the article: 
   With Walker in the governor's office, Cellini was out of a job, never to return to the state payroll. But his ties to state government grew under the Democratic governor. 
   ``He still had all his contacts with IDOT,'' said Joe Falls, a former Downstate GOP leader who ran IDOT's safety programs under Cellini. 
   ``Walker and all his people still needed his help and Bill cooperated,'' Falls said. ``He had friends on both sides, but when it came down to an election, he was always a Republican.'' 
   Cellini became executive director of the Illinois Asphalt Pavement Association, representing virtually all state road builders, many engineering firms and other companies that build and repair state roads. And he still runs the association, serving as executive vice president. 
   It's an association that has been quite beneficial for the road builders and Cellini, although his salary was a modest $49,140, according to the group's 1990 income tax returns. 
   Under Cellini's leadership, the association members have donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to governors and other state officials over the years. Edgar has received at least $375,000 from the association's members over the past 30 months. And the association's political action committee, the Good Government Council, has given more than $100,000 to other state officials. 
   ``He and the asphalt pavers continued to play the same games as always but with a Democratic administration,'' a longtime Republican official said. 
   ``The key to the asphalt pavers is that they get contracts for their work on a predictable basis,'' the official said. ``The business continued to flow and the campaign contributions flowed to the Democratic governor, just like the Republican governor.'' 
   While heading the asphalt association, Cellini developed his reputation as a national transportation authority while expanding his political power. 
   Soon after Cellini left the state payroll, President Richard M. Nixon appointed him to the National Highway Advisory Committee. 
   Cellini found the federal post was advantageous, personally and politically. When his four-year term was set to expire in March, 1976, Cellini lobbied President Gerald Ford for an appoint to the National Transportation Policy Study Commission. 
   ``The commission has been perfect for my simultaneously covering political meetings in D.C. and around the country, while keeping up with my profession in transportation and public works,'' Cellini wrote in a letter to Ford's personnel director Douglas Bennett on March 11, 1976. 
   ``Of course, I'm counting that my serving as President Ford Committee's Downstate Coordinator for Illinois won't be a disadvantage,'' he added in the letter obtained from the Ford Library. 
   Cellini got the appointment. He also was chosen to give a speech seconding Ford's renomination at the 1976 Republican convention. 
   ``They were looking for somebody with an ethnic connection, and (Ogilvie) probably recommended him,'' said Falls, who ran Ford's Illinois campaign. 
   Cellini was widely hailed for helping Ford win Illinois, although he lost the election to Jimmy Carter, one of the few times a presidential candidate won Illinois, but lost the White House. 
   As Cellini was expanding his power, he got into real estate development and management using the name New Frontier. The company specialized in building and managing apartments, usually with state financing, for senior citizens. The firm later branched into office buildings that were leased to the state. 
   In the waning days of the Walker administration, New Frontier got its first state deal when Cellini secured $5.4 million in state funds to build a 212-unit building near the state Capitol. The building includes offices for the asphalt pavement association and Cellini's companies, including New Frontier. 
   It was the first of several real estate deals New Frontier would get from state government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-16-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield only for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-17-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I would be happy to accommodate my colleague. I am told that similar requests are pending from Senator GRAHAM of Florida, Senator JOHN MCCAIN, and then you? If we could work out an agreement, I would not like to bypass those who have shown up earlier. Are either of those Senators on the floor or the Cloakroom? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-18-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I am going to object to that. I am told the leader is on his way and he is going to be making a statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-19-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes, I agree to that. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I just reserve the right to object. 
   My understanding is that I will have the floor again at about 6:15. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the leader for his accommodation. 
   Mr. MURKOWSKI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I compliment my colleague, my friend from Illinois. Extending my time line further, I started in 1998. There are a lot of articles going back to the early 1980s when Senator DURBIN--then Congressman DURBIN--was working hard to get this project off the ground. I compliment him for his hard work over a number of years on behalf of this project. 
   I appreciate his love for Springfield. Senator DURBIN has talked many times at our weekly Thursday morning breakfast about his love for Springfield. I know that he and his wife Loretta have lived in Springfield for many years. I am hopeful that we can work together and build a wonderful Abraham Lincoln Library that will truly be a credit not just to Springfield but to the whole State of Illinois and the entire country. 
   I also thank Senator DURBIN for his support and the amendment he offered in the Senate requiring the Federal competitive bid rules. Senator DURBIN has been very supportive and the whole Illinois delegation supports the project. There has simply been a difference of opinion as to which bidding rules should be attached. 
   I did want to point out that the State code does contemplate, where Federal strings are attached, Federal appropriations, that State agencies receiving Federal aid, grant funds, or loans, shall have the authority to adapt their procedures, rules, projects, drawings, maps, surveys, and so forth, to comply with the regulation, policy, and procedures of the designated authority of the U.S. Government in order to remain eligible for such Federal aid funds. 
   I think that provision would be helpful in the case of this grant or any other grant where the Federal Government seeks to ensure the proper accountability of the Federal funds. 
   I compliment my colleague and thank him for his working and allowing me to make my views known. I look forward to continuing to work with the Senator this year and in following years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, Senator WYDEN has requested to speak for 5 to 10 minutes. I ask unanimous consent he be allowed to do that, then I be able to go back and speak as though it were a continuation of the speech I have had ongoing since early this morning. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I will resume my filibuster on the Interior appropriations conference committee report. But the majority leader has asked me to take care of a few housekeeping matters in the meantime. I want to do that for the information of all Senators, before they go home for the evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to this resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 846, H.R. 1162. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 847, H.R. 1605. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 848, H.R. 4806. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of H.R. 5284, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read three times, passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, with no intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 909, H.R. 4318. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Committee on Indian Affairs reports S. 2917, a bill to settle the land claims of the Pueblo of Santa Domingo, the bill be referred to the Energy Committee for a period not to exceed 7 days; further, I ask unanimous consent that if the Energy Committee has not reported the measure prior to the expiration of the 7-day period, the bill be automatically discharged and placed on the calendar. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Governmental Affairs Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 4642 and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 913, H.R. 4002. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, Senator HAGEL has a technical amendment at the desk, and I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to. 
   The amendment (No. 4289) was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the committee substitute amendment, as amended, be agreed to, the bill be read a third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it recess until the hour of 9:30 a.m., on Thursday, October 5. I further ask consent that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of H.J. Res. 110, the continuing resolution, under the previous order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will begin closing remarks on the continuing resolution at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow. Under the order, there will be approximately 30 minutes equally divided on the resolution, with a vote on adoption of the resolution scheduled to occur at 10 a.m. 
   Following the vote, the Senate is expected to resume consideration of the conference report to accompany the Interior appropriations bill. The Senate may also begin consideration of any other appropriations bills available for action; therefore, Senators should be prepared for votes throughout the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, at this time I would like to return to our discussion of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, which is a project in the Interior conference committee report that we have been discussing from time to time throughout the day.  
   I spoke earlier, for several hours, about concerns I have had with the language in the conference committee report. The language authorizes $50 million in Federal expenditures for the library in Springfield. It says that the purpose of those expenditures would be for the construction of the library, for planning, design, acquiring, and constructing the library. But it is interesting; the actual language in the authorization does not say who is getting the money. It says that the $50 million would be going to an entity that would be selected later. 
   So the Senate and the House have a conference committee report before us with a $50 million authorization for the library in Springfield, IL, but we do not know to whom we are going to give the money. 
   When I saw this language earlier on, when the authorizing bill came from the House to my Senate committee, I saw that as a problem. I saw it also as a problem that there was no requirement that the construction project be competitively bid. 
   I thought, what if this money falls into the hands of a private entity? The entity in the bill could apparently be private or public. There is no restriction in the bill that it can only go to a public entity. There is no suggestion in the bill that the money has to go to the State of Illinois. 
   I thought, we have to take care to make sure that we have protections in there for the taxpayer, so that this money cannot be spent improperly. 
   Senator DURBIN came in and spoke earlier. He said that he supports a bidding process with integrity, as do I. I appreciate Senator DURBIN's support and the support I have had from all of my 99 colleagues in the Senate, where we have gone on record by passing legislation over to the House that says the Senate thinks it is a good idea that this $50 million authorization for the Lincoln Library in Springfield, IL, requires that the project be competitively bid in accordance with the comprehensive Federal competitive bid guidelines. I thank all my colleagues in the Senate for their support on that proposition. 
   I talked to many of my colleagues in the last couple weeks about this issue, and every single one of them agreed: Isn't it a good idea that we restrict that money so it cannot be misused? After all, it is not even clear where the money is going. 
   It is possible that the money would go to the State of Illinois. If it does go to the State of Illinois, I think that would be preferable to it being given to an individual or to a private corporation. 
   I described earlier in the day how there is a private not-for-profit organization out there that has recently been organized known as the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library Foundation, and that I do not think it would be a good idea to give the taxpayer's money to a private not-for-profit organization in which case it would be up to the board of directors of that corporation as to how the money would be handled. We would not have safeguards for the public. 
   But I also pointed out that if the money went to the State of Illinois, and the State of Illinois directed the money to its Capital Development Board, there was a real problem. 
   The State of Illinois has a procurement code that was amended a few years ago. It does, in general, seek to ensure competitive bidding. It is an improvement over old laws that the State of Illinois used to have. 
   When I was in the State senate in Springfield, in 1997, I voted for the current State procurement law. But we pointed out that there is a loophole in there, and I regret that I missed that loophole. The loophole is that the Capital Development Board has a way to opt out of competitively bidding projects. It is a highly unusual and irregular loophole. 
   A letter from the Capital Development Board to Senator DURBIN stated that the project would have to be competitively bid because they would require it. They said they couldn't do things that were not competitively bid. That is nice they put that in their letter, but their letter is flatly contradicted by their statute. The statute that governs the Capital Development Board has a clear opt-out so that the State can just opt out of competitively biding this project. 
   Fifty million dollars in taxpayer money is a lot of money. 
   The one issue Senator DURBIN mentioned concerned the attachment of Federal competitive bid guidelines to this project in Springfield, to make sure it was properly applied and that we didn't have political influence in the awarding of the many contracts that would be given out. There is, after all, $120 million of taxpayer money, when you include the State of Illinois money, the Federal money, the city of Springfield money, and any private money that is contributed to the project. That is a lot of money. You would think you would want careful safeguards in that law. It is hard for me to think of any reason anybody would oppose the strictest possible exceptions on how we spend taxpayer money to ensure that there is competitive bidding. 
   Senator DURBIN wondered how would it work if Federal requirements would apply; the State of Illinois wouldn't know how to handle it if Federal guidelines were applied. I don't think that is correct. As I pointed out to Senator DURBIN, it is very clear the State contemplates that Federal guidelines will frequently be attached when the Federal Government gives money to the State of Illinois. If you get Federal money from somewhere or you get money from somebody, it is not unusual that strings are attached. 
   Article 20 of the Illinois procurement code, source selection and contract formation, at 500/20-85, contemplates the attachment of Federal strings. Section 20-85, Federal requirements: A State agency receiving Federal aid funds, grants, or loans shall have authority to adopt its procedures, rules, project statements, drawings, maps, surveys, plans, specifications, contract terms, estimates, bid forms, bond forms, and other documents or practices, to comply with the regulations, policies, and procedures of the designated authority, administration, or department of the United States in order to remain eligible for such Federal aid funds, grants, or loans. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print this statute in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Clearly, the State of Illinois contemplates that for many grants from the Federal Government, they will have to comply with the Federal Government's requirements. That is not unusual. The Federal Government has requirements for education money, for Medicaid money, and the like. For this project, I think it is reasonable. 
   We don't want to unduly hamper it. But Federal competitive bidding, who would oppose that? I don't think Democrats would oppose it. I don't think Republicans would oppose it. Certainly no Democrat, no Republican in the Senate wished to go on record opposing it. It is a simple, safe precaution for the taxpayers. 
   Again, this statute, which we have talked about on and off all day, conclusively demolishes the letters that are  being put out by the Capital Development Board saying they must use competitive bidding and that there is no way competitive bidding won't be used. 
   Let me reflect on that argument again. They are saying that clearly competitive bidding will be used. This project now is the focus of a lot of attention around the State of Illinois, and many people have said it will definitely be competitively bid. 
   If that is the case, why such stiff opposition to attaching the Federal competitive bid guidelines? If they are going to bid it according to the book and there won't be any problems with the contracts, then why is anybody opposed? Why is it? I don't know. 
   Clearly, the Office of the Governor of Illinois believed strongly enough that these guidelines, these restrictions, not be attached. Instead, they chose to go around the Senate and try to get the language snuck into a conference committee report, stripped of the competitive bidding language, and in a way so that it would be rolled into an $18 billion appropriations bill that is a must-pass bill. That conference committee report cannot be amended or recommitted. They went to a lot of trouble. In fact, they were practically doing anything and stopping at nothing to avoid the competitive bid guidelines which they are essentially saying they are going to do anyway. That doesn't make a lot of sense to me. Why the objection? Why the fierce fight over requiring Federal procurement laws be followed? 
   Now, throughout the day, I have set the context in which this debate has been occurring. I believed it necessary because for those who aren't from the wonderful land of Lincoln, the great State of Illinois, they may not be fully familiar with the politics. 
   Sometimes our politics have become famous. Chicago has famous political traditions. The State government probably hasn't been as well known as the city of Chicago's government. But I believed I needed to set the table, to lay the foundation and give the Senators from other States the context in which I was concerned that this money would be provided in a way that would permit unfettered discretion on the part of whoever might get this $50 million authorized appropriation. 
   I read a number of articles into the RECORD this morning that talked about problems that have occurred in State government in Illinois, not just under Republican administrations but under both Republican and Democratic administrations, where, because of a lack of competitive bidding, because of lax, weak procurement laws that left too 
   much to the subjective preferences of State officials on awarding contracts, we have had of a sad history of procurement problems in the State of Illinois. Hopefully, the State's new procurement law will cut down on future problems such as that. But as I have pointed out, it has a few loopholes that I hope will get cleaned up. 
   We have talked about leases of buildings. We have talked about construction projects. We have highlighted a number of instances in which those leases at that time were not competitively bid, where there were a lot of questions about the amounts taxpayers were paying for the State to lease buildings. And certainly the people involved in leasing the properties to the State seem to be very involved in the political process, which raises a lot of questions in one's mind. 
   I also talked about the hotel loan, which involved a loan to a politically connected developer to build the Springfield Renaissance Hotel. It was a $15 million loan from the State of Illinois. It appeared also, as we read some of those articles, that Federal money was involved in that, too, and that that loan was never repaid to the State of Illinois. Some payments were made. I don't know what the unpaid balance is today, but I think it is quite substantial. That developer still has that hotel, too. This hotel is very close, about a block and a half, maybe two blocks away, as we saw, from the proposed Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library. 
   If the library is built and it becomes the wonderful attraction we hope it will be for citizens from all over the country to come and enjoy and learn about Abraham Lincoln in the hometown of Abraham Lincoln, certainly it will generate a lot of tourist revenue for the city of Springfield. I imagine the Springfield Renaissance Hotel would benefit from the projections of increased tourism. I hope that would be the case. I hope that perhaps at that time the hotel, the partnership that runs it, would think about whether they couldn't make more payments to the State on that $15 million taxpayer loan that goes back to the early 1980s. 
   I know that State officials released personal guarantees and waived the State's right to foreclose on that hotel loan. It is clear there probably isn't much of a legally enforceable note anymore. You would have to wonder if those people would think about whether it wouldn't be a good idea for them, the right thing for them to do, to try to make payments when they could. They probably would argue that the notes are worthless now and that the State's rights as lender were waived while the loan was in default. It is kind of unusual. In fact, I have never really heard of a lender, when they have a bad loan, waive all their rights. It seems kind of odd to me. 
   In any case, there is another episode in our State's recent history that I was very vocal on when I was in the State senate. That was on how riverboat licenses were given out. 
   Back in about 1990, the State created 10 riverboat licenses. The first six of them were fairly site specific in their statute on where the river boat licenses had to go. 
   That always raised questions because there were questions of whether in drawing up the statute the State was actually attempting to steer these riverboat licenses to certain individuals. It just so happened that an investor in the first riverboat license awarded under the Illinois gaming law was the very same individual, Mr. William Cellini, about whom we have read some articles, who got the hotel loan, didn't have to pay it back, had the leases of the State buildings, and has been involved in politics in Illinois for a long time. 
   I would, if I could, like to continue on in an examination of what happened when the State didn't competitively bid the riverboat licenses, and I always believed they should have been competitively bid. You had licenses that turned out to be phenomenally lucrative. In some cases, very small investments made many people very rich, very quickly. There was always a question as to how the State determined who got the licenses. The people who wound up getting the first six licenses, which were fairly site-specific, tended to be people who were very much involved in State politics in Illinois. They were what I would call ``insiders'' in the State capitol. Of course, they always encouraged the perception that it was just a coincidence that these very lucrative licenses fell into their hands. And they got real rich, real quick. 
   In fact, a riverboat was put up in Joliet, IL. I remember when I was in the State senate, that boat was called the Joliet Empress. We could not find out the financial results of these boats. It was an exception to the freedom of information laws in Springfield, and even though these boats got a license from the State, they didn't have to give out financial information to the public. But the Joliet Empress decided to do a public bond offering, as I recall. In order to do that public offering of its debt securities, it had to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the process of filing that statement, they disclosed their investors and disclosed some of the financial results of the riverboat. 
   I am going to suggest that the original investment was somewhere in the neighborhood of $20 million. In the first 18 months, as I recall, the nine people who owned the riverboat took in something like $87 million in cash dividends. It kind of makes the Internet firms that we are reading about in the soaring NASDAQ index seem like nothing. This was really a bonanza for the people who wound up with these riverboat licenses. 
   When I read on the floor of the Illinois State Senate how lucrative these licenses were, I thought it was wrong that the State wasn't competitively bidding those licenses. They were setting up a process by which people who wanted these licenses could go through the politicians who could give it to them on a no-bid basis. And in so doing, the State was leaving an awful lot of money on the table. In fact, they were literally lighting a match to millions of dollars they could have reaped  had they auctioned off those licenses and created some kind of bidding process and not allowed political favoritism to ever be a question in the awarding of those licenses. 
   In fact, there was a lot of opposition to ever competitively bidding those licenses. Certainly, the people who wound up owning or wanting the licenses never wanted those competitively bid. Instead, what happened, in order to raise revenue in the early 1990s, on a few occasions the State raised income taxes on everybody else. 
   Mr. President, let me go, if I may, to a couple of articles that describe how the State gave out the no-bid riverboat licenses. Again, this is all in the context of examining what happens when State, Federal, or local government--any government at all--don't put restrictions on money they are giving out for contracts, or on benefits that they are giving out, when they don't make sure there is a competitive bidding process involved. Questions always arise as to whether there is political favoritism. 
   This article is from the Chicago Sun-Times of February 26, 1993. The byline is by Ray Long. The headline is, ``Developer Hits Riverboat Jackpot; Stock Sale Windfall Steams Treasurer.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20001004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, there are a number of other articles that have been written over the years about how the State gave out the riverboat gambling licenses in Illinois. The record is replete with problems that the State had, or questions that were raised about how the licenses were awarded. They just happened to be awarded to people who seemed to be involved in the political process. 
   That was something I was concerned about at the time. I was in the State senate at that time; this goes back to 1994. There is an article in the Chicago Sun-Times that discusses how I was seeking competitive bidding on those State riverboat licenses. 
   This is an article from April 10, 1994, entitled, ``Riverboat Deal is Plum For Insiders,'' by Dennis Byrne of the Chicago Sun-Times:  
   The agreement between Mayor Daley and Gov. Edgar to bring riverboat gambling to Chicago should make a lot of people happy: Chicago taxpayers and schoolchildren, who will benefit from the additional revenues, and the thousands of casino/entertainment center employees. 
   But the folks who should be the happiest are the well-connected insiders who are already raking it in from the state's 10 suburban and Downstate riverboats and who stand to make hundreds of millions more from the Chicago riverboats. 
   That would be thanks to a little-noticed part of the agreement changing the law that bans owners of one riverboat license from having more than a 10 percent interest in a second. If approved by the Legislature, they could own a second license and up to a 10 percent interest in a third. 
   So folks such as Eugene Heytow, chairman of the politically connected Amalgamated Trust & Savings Bank, where William Daley, the mayor's brother, once was president, could keep his stake in a riverboat in Galena while buying a chunk of one in Chicago. And William Cellini, a powerful friend of Edgar and former Gov. James R. Thompson, could buy into Chicago big-time while keeping his lucrative interest in the Alton Belle. So could Gayle Franzen, the Republican candidate for DuPage County Board chairman. And so on. 
   You could argue that they should get a piece of the Chicago action because the state is changing the rules of the game, that when they invested in the suburban and Downstate boats they believed they wouldn't face any competitive risk from Chicago. 
   However, it's not a very convincing argument in the face of the obscene profits that they have already harvested from their state-protected monopolies. State Sen. Peter G. Fitzgerald (R-Inverness), a banker, has calculated that the profits have been great enough to cover initial investments in only a matter of months--the kind of return that might make Hillary Rodham Clinton envious. In the case of the Alton Belle, a $20 million or so capital investment (and a paltry $85,000 for a state licensing fee) seeded a company that now has an estimated market value approaching a half billion dollars.  
   Let me read that again. 
   This is from Dennis Byrne, ``Riverboat Deal is Plum for Insiders.''  
   In the case of the Alton Belle, a $20 million or so capital investment--and a paltry $85,000 for a State licensing fee.  
   The guys who got the riverboats gave the State $85,000. The State gave them a license and ceded a company that now has an estimated market value approaching $.5 billion. 
   Not a bad deal if you are giving the $85,000 and they are giving you the license. It is worth, at that time they say, $.5 billion. What did the taxpayers get out of this with no competitive bidding? They had their income taxes raised during that time.  
   For an initial outlay of just a couple hundred grand 2 1/2 years ago, investors now would own tens of millions of dollars worth of stock. Cellini himself plucked $4.9 million when he sold some of his stock when the company went public, but still retains some $60 million worth of stock. 
   And if they invest in Chicago boats? Using the city's figures, Fitzgerald calculates that annual net income on each boat could approach $50 million, and that the market value of each boat (at five times earnings) could exceed a quarter of a billion dollars. 
   Thankfully, though, they'd have to sink more into the Chicago boats, because, unlike the license for suburban and Downstate boats, the city licenses would be competitively bid. Who gets the license will depend, in part, on how much the bidder is willing to give to the city in admission, franchise and other fees. Unfortunately, though, the state's 20 percent gaming tax on gross receipts will not be raised, for the Chicago or Downstate boats. Nor do we know if other municipalities that are granted new boats will be able to demand competitive bidding. 
   Fitzgerald believes that even if the 20 percent state tax were raised significantly, to as high as 60 percent, the owners still would make a nice profit. So if we truly believe  that the boats are a public good, maybe we should allow the public to rake off at least as much as some politically connected pals.  
   Mr. President, I understand that the Presiding Officer has an obligation, so I will try to focus my remarks and enable the Presiding Officer to meet that obligation. 
   We have introduced a number of articles on this point all during the day to lay the context in which my concerns were raised about this very large project in Springfield. 
   I guess now we are down to the point where we have to ask the big question: Is the proposed Abraham Lincoln Library in Springfield, IL, another insider deal? I certainly hope it doesn't become one. This may or may not be now. We will not know until it is done. But we should do our very best to prevent it from becoming one. 
   We have said if we don't have careful controls, the money could wind up in private hands. It wouldn't have to be competitively bid under the language in the conference report. If the money winds up in State hands, then under the language that passed out of the House in the conference report, and which the Senate has basically said they don't like because it doesn't have Federal competitive bidding in it, if the money went to a private entity and went to the State--we have seen the State without competitive bidding. I would hate to see the monument to ``Honest Abe'' discussed in one of these many articles that have been written by investigative reporters. Competitive bidding could be opted out if it were the Capital Development Board that were doing the project. 
   As I pointed out, it is not unusual for the State to have to live within Federal competitive bid guidelines. This is not an unusual request. Then there is the State code. The State procurement code specifically contemplates the application of Federal guidelines such as these Federal competitive guidelines. 
   Are there red flags on this project? I want to sum those up again. We talked earlier in the day about some of the red flags. 
   We had the cost of the project increasing as the project has been talked about over the last few years. It started out as a proposed $40 million project in February of 1998. It went to a $60 million project 13 months later, in March of 1999. When I first came to the Senate, it was a $60 million project. Then one month after that, the next report said it was a $148 million project--up from the most recent $60 million estimate on advice from ``designers and fiscal advisers.'' That raised the red flag in my mind. I thought we had to bird-dog this project. After all, that is a big expenditure in any city, and it is certainly a big expenditure in the city of Springfield, our State capital. 
   The estimated cost, adjusted for inflation, of our State capitol is only $70 million compared to the $148 million that we saw referred to there, and now the $120 million that they are talking about for this library. 
   The cost of other buildings in Springfield: the Willard Ice Building is a $70 million building; the Prairie Capital Convention Center is a $60 million building. 
   We are really talking about a very visible project in Springfield. We discussed the location as well of this library. We noted its proximity to the Springfield Ramada Renaissance Hotel. We talked at length about the history of the Springfield Renaissance Hotel. We noted that this project is intended to and will stimulate tourism, if it is done right, in the city of Springfield. That hotel stands to benefit from that. It would be nice if we could get some payments on that $15 million State loan from back in 1982 to build that. 
   We have not yet noted, and I think we need to note, that Mr. Cellini, whom we have discussed, has been active in seeking to raise money for the private foundation that is connected to the library. Let me see if I can focus on that for one second and find a citation for you, Mr. President. There are newspaper articles, I believe, that suggest he has been out actively trying to raise money for the library. I would like to find that citation. 
   Incidentally, I should also mention that the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library cost $65 million. 
   It is a State Journal Register article from September 5, 1999, a little over a year ago:  
   William Cellini reported to be heading private fundraising drive for the project.  
   So we are beginning to connect this all back into some of the projects we have read about throughout the course of the day. 
   These are connecting threads, and set against the backdrop of procurement history and controversy in Illinois, I think there is good reason for Congress to be careful with this project. I think it is reasonable to look at all these red flags and say, this $50 million in Federal money, we better make sure it is buttoned down; better be careful, we don't want to happen to this money what has sometimes happened in the past. We don't want this project ever to be the subject of one of these investigative reports in one of our State's fine newspapers. 
   In light of the time restraints we are running up against tonight, the hour is late and I recognize that, I thank my colleagues again for all their support, for going on record in favor of competitive bidding in accordance with the Federal competitive bidding guidelines. I certainly hope the House will reconsider the position that has come out of the House in opposition for buttoning down this money and having tighter controls on it, to make sure that none of it winds up being involved in an insider deal, and that Springfield gets $120 million worth of value out of the $120 million that is intended to be spent on this monument for Abraham Lincoln. 
   Some may wonder why I have sought to filibuster the Interior appropriations bill over this matter. They would note $50 million is a substantial amount, but as a percentage of the entire appropriations bill, it is relatively small in comparison. There are literally countless projects throughout the country that are contained in that bill. I believed it was important to come to the floor and to lay out this case because it goes to the very heart of the appropriations process in Washington. 
   I understand those who oppose the competitive bidding will eventually have a good opportunity to move their bill and make sure the competitive bidding isn't in there. But I hope we are going to have illumination here. I think the people of Illinois can know who their government is and what it is about. I think that the people of this country may see, through the prism of Illinois, how serious and consequential the ethical foundations of their government can and must be. 
   This issue of whether we make sure this money is competitively bid goes to the very heart of the appropriations process. We ought to take great care of the people's money. The people's money represents precious hours of hard work, sweat, and time away from family. The American people are fundamentally generous, and they will permit reasonable expenditures for the good of their country, their communities, and their State. However, Mr. President, don't abuse them. Do your best to make sure that there are sufficient safeguards so the people can know that their taxpayer dollars will not simply be trampled on by political insiders. That is what bothers me personally, eats at me--the people who oppose provisions such as this act, as though $50 million in taxpayer money is a quarter. How can we ever put too many controls on taxpayer money? Why would anyone not welcome even more stringent competitive bid rules? Why would anybody oppose that? I can't think of a good reason. 
   The backdrop of problems we have had in the State of Illinois for a long time, which I illuminated today, and the legacy of insider dealing make me very reluctant to turn over this particular $120 million without doing everything I can to protect it. 
   I thank all of those who have stayed with me tonight, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to engage the Chairman of the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee in a brief colloquy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. My state has an emerging methamphetamine problem, which is an unmet need of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program. To tackle this problem successfully, Congress should provide funding in fiscal year 2001 to implement the expansion of the Chicago High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area to the Southern and Central Districts of Illinois. 
   Over the last three years, seizures of methamphetamine laboratories in Illinois have increased by 925 percent. In 1999 alone, 246 methamphetamine laboratories were seized in Illinois (more than all previous years combined), and methamphetamine-related crime in the state is at an all-time high, according to the Illinois State Police. If this trend continues, Illinois can expect to see an exponential growth of methamphetamine activities in the next two or three years, similar to what has occurred in Kansas, Missouri, Arkansas, and Iowa. 
   I recognize that the final version of the Treasury and General government Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2001 includes an additional $14,500,000 to expand existing HIDTAs or fund newly designated HIDTAs. I would like to ask the Chairman a question: is it your expectation that a portion of these funds will be used to implement the expansion of the Chicago HIDTA to the Southern and Central Districts of Illinois? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in favor of granting permanent normal trade relations to the People's Republic of China. I support this move not only because of the tremendous economic benefits that will flow to the U.S. economy--and to my home state of Illinois--as a result of Chinese WTO membership; I also support PNTR because I believe that a China that is engaged with the international community--and which is reforming and privatizing its economy at home--will be a more stable and a more democratic China, with improved human rights at home and a better relationship with its neighbor, Taiwan. PNTR will be an unqualified gain for both the United States and China; we must not allow this bill to fail. 
   I first remind my fellow Senators of the many and impressive market openings that the Chinese agreed to as a condition for their entry into the World Trade Organization. The concessions won by U.S. negotiators are simply breathtaking: 
   Average tariffs for U.S. agricultural products will drop from 22% to 17.5% by 2004. For beef, grapes, wine, poultry, and pork, average tariffs will fall from 31.5% to 14.5%. One in every three American acres that is planted is growing food for overseas markets. U.S. farm exports to China last year totaled $1 billion, making China the eighth largest market for American farmers. And China will account for nearly 40% of all future growth of U.S. farm exports. 
   Also under the bilateral agreement, average tariffs for U.S. manufactured goods exported to China will fall from 24.6% to 9.4% by 2005. 
   But even more important than the change in formal trade barriers are the many fundamental market-opening changes that China has agreed to. Under our 1979 agreement with the Chinese--the current foundation for U.S. trade with the China--many nontariff barriers block entry of U.S. goods into China. These barriers consist of import licensing requirements, registration and certification requirements, and arbitrary technical and sanitary standards. Further, U.S. manufacturers that operate in China often are required to transfer technology to Chinese companies, use local materials, and to export a portion of their products abroad. Finally, many of these requirements are unpublished and are imposed arbitrarily. It is difficult for U.S. companies to know what restrictions will apply to their activities. 
   Under our Bilateral Agreement with the Chinese, China will publish its rules and make them available to U.S. companies. It will eliminate technology-transfer, local-content, and export requirements. And it will impose only safety and sanitary standards that are scientifically based. 
   China has also agreed to impressive changes in many areas of business where U.S. companies currently are effectively excluded. For example, in the area of: 
   Distribution rights: U.S. firms currently cannot run their own distribution networks in China. Under the bilateral agreement, U.S. companies for the first time will be allowed to deliver their goods directly to retailers in China. 
   Retailing: Under the bilateral agreement, U.S. companies will be able to  open their own stores in anywhere in China without restriction. U.S. companies will be able to maintain majority ownership of stores, and will be able to sell U.S. products. The U.S. retailing industry is without peer--one-fifth of the U.S. workers work in retailing, and Americans have perfected the trade. But if we don't enact PNTR and enter the Chinese retailing market, foreign firms--such as the French conglomerate Carrefour--will take our place. 
   Telecommunications and high technology: Foreign companies are currently prohibited from supplying telecommunications service in China. But as a WTO member, China will join the Information Technology Agreement, and will eliminate all tariffs on computers, telecommunications equipment, and semiconductors. China will also become a party to the Basic Telecommunications Agreement, adopting cost-based pricing, interconnection rights, and creating an independent regulatory authority. Foreign companies will be allowed to provide e-mail, voice-mail, on-line information and data-base retrieval, electronic data interchange, and paging services. Foreign companies will be allowed to hold a 30% share in Chinese service suppliers, eventually going up to 50%. For cell-phone services, foreign companies' stake will be allowed to go from 25% to 49%. 
   Finally, it bears emphasis that the significance of all these changes is magnified by the sheer size of the Chinese market. America is the world's largest exporter, and China will soon be the world's largest purchaser of consumer goods and services. In less than five years, China will have more than 230 million middle-income consumers, with retail sales exceeding $900 billion annually. Gaining access to this enormous market is critical to American business and the future health of the U.S. economy. 
   PNTR will provide that access. The Institute for International Economics estimates that the increase in world export of goods to China that will result from China's entry to WTO will total $21.3 billion--and the immediate increase in U.S. exports to China will be $3.1 billion. Goldman Sachs has estimated that by 2005, passage of PNTR will increase U.S. exports to China by $13 billion. This is, quite simply, an opportunity that the United States must not pass up. 
   I also wish to emphasize today the benefits of PNTR to my home State of Illinois. Exports to China from Illinois totaled $901 million in 1998, up 24% from 1993. China was the tenth largest export market for Illinois in 1998. And Illinois' exports to China are broadly diversified, covering almost every major product category. A few areas stand out: 
   PNTR represents a tremendous opportunity for Illinois farmers. In 1997, Illinois exported $3.7 billion in agricultural goods, ranking third among all States. 
   Soybeans: Illinois is one of America's principal producers of soybeans. Under the bilateral agreement, tariffs will be set at 3% for soybeans and 5% for soybean meal, with no quota limits. For soybean oil, quotas will be eliminated by 2006; the in-quota tariff (the only tariff that will remain after 2006) will be reduced to 9%. Soybean oil exports to China could double within five yeas after the United States enacts PNTR. 
   Corn: Illinois is also one of this Nation's main corn-producing States. In 1998, China imported less than 250,000 metric tons of corn from all countries. But under the bilateral agreement, the quota on corn imported to China will immediately rise to 4.5 million metric tons, climbing to 7.2 million tons by 2004. Corn within the quota will be subject to only a 1% tariff. Corn exports to China could increase a hundred-fold by 2004. 
   Beef and pork: Illinois is the fourth largest State in pork production. Frozen pork cuts and pork offal tariffs will fall from 20% to 12%. China's tariff on frozen beef cuts will drop from 45% to 12%, and chilled beef tariffs will go from 45% to 25% by 2004. There will be no quota, and China has agreed to accept all pork and beef from the United States that is certified as wholesome by the USDA. 
   Fertilizers: All quotas on importation of fertilizer into China will be eliminated by 2002, and tariffs will decline from 6% to 4%. 
   The insurance industry is not often discussed in the debate over PNTR, but it is important to my home State of Illinois. 140,000 jobs depend on the insurance industry in Illinois. And for all the talk we hear from opponents of PNTR about trade deficits and jobs lost as a result of trade, it is worth emphasizing that the U.S. actually has a trade surplus in global trade in services such as insurance. The bilateral agreement will help us widen that surplus. China's market currently is almost completely closed to foreign insurers; most consumers may choose only among a few state-run monopolies. The bilateral agreement will throw open the Chinese market for insurance 
   and reinsurance. With 1.2 billion people, China represents the largest insurance market in the world--a market that is significantly underinsured at present. From 1993-98, however, growth in the Chinese insurance market averaged almost 30% a year. Under the WTO agreement, foreign insurers will be allowed to offer group, health, and pension lines of insurance, which represent about 85% of total premiums. China will also set clear licensing standards--with no economic-needs tests or quantitative limits on the number of licenses issued--and will allow foreign insurers to sell their products throughout the country, directly to Chinese consumers. The bilateral agreement will also serve as an excellent model for future WTO negotiations on insurance trade. Although only two U.S. insurance companies currently are allowed to sell any insurance in China, over 20 have recently set up offices there, and are poised to move quickly into the Chinese market. PNTR will be a boon to the U.S. insurance industry and will generate high-paying jobs here in America. 
   Under the bilateral agreement, average tariffs on construction equipment will fall from 13.6% to 6.4%. China is an enormous potential growth market. According to the World Bank, China will need to spend an estimated $750 billion in new infrastructure over the next decade--increasing demand for earth-moving equipment. Illinois firms are well-placed to compete for this booming market. 
   But all of these benefits will not comes to the United States automatically. We must grant PNTR to China. Some opponents of PNTR have claimed that we need not give up annual review of China's NTR status, that China would join the WTO anyway. They are half right. China's accession to the WTO only requires a two-thirds vote of all members--even a U.S. vote against China would not block their entry at this point. However, once China does enter the WTO, the United States will be required to comply with all WTO rules with regard to China in order to enjoy the benefits of Chinese membership in that organization. And the main WTO rule is that all members must extend equal and unconditional trading rights to each other. This means that we must extend Normal Trading Relations to China unconditionally. If we do not grant China PNTR before it enters the WTO, China would be able to challenge the U.S. refusal--and the United States would be required to invoke article XIII of the WTO agreement, suspending the application of WTO rules between itself and China. This would mean that every one of the WTO's other 135 members--who account for 90% of world trade--would be eligible for the benefit of Chinese WTO membership, but the United States would not. And this includes the benefits that stem from the U.S.-Chinese bilateral accession agreement. The concessions that China made to the United States, to secure our support for Chinese accession, would be available to all other WTO members, but not to the United States. We cannot let this happen--we cannot allow our trade competitors to eat our lunch in China. 
   It bears emphasis that by granting PNTR, the United States gives up no trade protections. China already enjoys normal trade relations with the United States--our markets are already open to Chinese imports. The concessions that were made as a condition to Chinese entry to WTO were all made by the Chinese--the U.S. gave up nothing, and PNTR will not affect a single American tariff or other trade barrier. 
   The only thing that the United States does give up by granting PNTR is the right to review China's NTR status annually. With this, we give up very little, for NTR review has not been an effective tool for influencing  events in China. Congress has renewed China's NTR status every year since 1980. The Chinese no longer take the threat of review seriously--particularly after NTR was again extended after the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989. The NTR procedure was originally enacted as the Jackson-Vanik amendment to Trade Act of 1974. The official condition for extending NTR is that the country being reviewed allow free emigration from its territory. The process was originally set up to pressure the Soviet Union with regard to free emigration of Soviet Jews. In other words, annual NTR review is a procedure that was set 
   up to deal with an issue that does not concern us with regard to China, and to control the behavior of a country that no longer exists. Having lost its credibility over the last twenty years, it is time for annual NTR review to be retired. 
   But you need not take my word about the lack of leverage provided by annual review. Take the word of Fu Shenqui, a Chinese dissident who has been active in the human-rights movement in China since the 1979 Democracy Wall movement, and who has been imprisoned for his activism three separate times. Mr. Fu had this to say about the effectiveness of annual trade review:  
   [T]he annual argument over NTR renewal exerts no genuine pressure on the Chinese Communists and performs absolutely no role in compelling them to improve the human rights situation. ..... [T]he improvement of the human rights situation and the advancement of democracy in China must mainly depend on the great mass of the Chinese people, in the process of economic modernization, gradually creating the popular citizen consciousness and democratic consciousness and struggling for them. It will not be achieved through the action of the U.S. Congress in debating Normal Trade Relations .....  
   Also consider the words of Bao Tong, a prominent Chinese dissident. In an interview with the Washington Post, May 11, 2000, Mr. Bao said simply: ``I appreciate the efforts of friends and colleagues to help our human rights situation, but it doesn't make sense to use trade as a lever. It just doesn't work.'' 
   While annual review doesn't work, engagement does. Despite the failure of the annual NTR process, the United States does still have a means of adding liberalization and democratization in China. The United States can contribute to the reforms that have been building for the last twenty years by supporting the reform faction in the Beijing regime; by providing an example of democracy and rule of law to individual Chinese citizens; by getting the Chinese government involved in the international organizations and frameworks; and by aiding the process of private capital formation in China. And all of these things can be accomplished by enacting PNTR and supporting Chinese membership in the WTO. 
   Zhu Rongji, the current Premier, is widely regarded as the most proreform leader in China. His group is friendly to the U.S., and they have bet their future on WTO and PNTR. After two decades of rapid growth, China's economy appears to be faltering--growth is down substantially in the last few years, and deflation has plagued the economy for over two years. The current leadership views WTO--and the reforms and market opening that it will entail--as a tool for reviving a flagging economy. WTO has been the mostly hotly debated topic in China since 1989. The reformers have agreed to adopt sweeping economic reforms in exchange for accession to the World Trade Organization. For the U.S. to reject this offer of increased openness and reform would deal a serious blow to the liberals in the Chinese government--and greatly strengthen the hand of the Communist hardliners. The W.T.O. accession agreement also offers the Chinese reformers political cover--it would merge their domestic market reform agenda with international commitments and Chinese membership in a prestigious international body. China's opening would become not just one political faction's program, but the new role of China as a participant in the international system. The United States must seize this historic opportunity to establish friendly relations with China, and to consolidate the current atmosphere of openness and reform within that country. The Chinese liberals have done their part by negotiating the most ambitious market-liberalization agreement that nation has ever seen; now it is our turn to do our part. 
   Again, it is worth hearing the views of these matters of those for whom China's future course is not just a theoretical concern. Martin Lee is the Chairman of the Democratic Party of Hong Kong. He emphasizes that ``the participation of China in the WTO would not only have economic and political benefits, but would also serve to bolster those in China who understand that the country must embrace the rule of law.'' 
   Dai Quing is a Chinese investigative journalist and environmentalist and the winner of the 1992 Golden Pen for Freedom award given by the International Federation of Newspaper Publishers. Ms. Dai was recently imprisoned in China for 10 months on account of her writings. She nevertheless favors granting China PNTR She says:  
   I have heard on the news that two of the groups I admire most in the U.S.--the AFL-CIO and the Sierra Club--are against granting permanent normal trade relations with China. ..... As a Chinese environmentalist and human-rights activist, I disagree with their position. ..... I believe that permanent normal trade status, with its implication of openness and fairness, is among the most powerful means of promoting freedom in China. Starting in 1978, the open-door policy completely changed the way China responded to the world. Today, PNTR is a powerful means to keep China's doors as open as possible.  
   WTO membership and PNTR will not only keep China open to the West, but will improve conditions within that country. The market reforms that will come to China as a result of PNTR--both a requirements of WTO, and as necessary changes in the face of increased competition--will help to directly liberalize Chinese society. These changes will include a much freer flow of information to China; as the economy advances, more information technology will fall into private hands, and the overall volume of communication will increase, making it much more difficult for the government to monitor and control its people. 
   Also, market reforms will assist the growth of civil society and the democratization of China by reducing the dependence of individual Chinese on the state sector. Although private business's share of the Chinese economy is ever increasing, a majority of Chinese workers still work for some form of a collectively owned enterprise. These state workers are paid very little in actual wages; instead, they receive much of their compensation in the form of subsidized housing, health care, child care, food, clothing, and education. State workers' reliance on these government-provided benefits greatly increases the government's power over these individuals. Those who depend on the government for their necessities are generally loath to criticize it--or to do anything that may incur its wrath and jeopardize their ability to simply get by. Increased private ownership and employment in China will break this cycle of dependence, and will do much to loosen the government's grip on its citizens. 
   But again, you need not take my word for it. We have heard much talk about human rights from those opposed to PNTR with China. Let us also listen to those on the front lines in the fight for democracy and greater freedom in China: 
   The China Democracy Party was founded two years ago in Zhejiang, China. Many of its members are currently imprisoned or under house arrest in China. The party has issued the following statement, which deserves the attention of all those concerned about political reform in China:  
   The China Communist government is planted in state ownership. The very base for government power is in each and every state-owned company and farm. Bringing China into the international community will speed China's economic privatization and its development, thus [converting] state ownership into private ownership. This change will tremendously weaken the state ownership that the Communist government power basically relies on.  
   The same point is made by prodemocracy leader Ren Wanding, who simply states:  
   A free and private economy forms the base for a democratic ..... [WTO membership] will make China's government organs and legal system evolve toward democracy.  
   Greater openness and trade for China will also increase China's communication with the outside world. This will not only introduce more Chinese to liberal ideas and principles, but will also  increase international awareness of conditions within China. Again, as the China Democracy Party declares in its official statement: ``the closer the economic relationship between the United States and China, the more chances for the United States to politically influence China, the more chances to monitor human rights conditions in China, and [the] more effective the United States [will be] to push China to launch political reforms.'' 
   And finally, the emergence of alternative power centers--especially private business--will fuel the growth of a civil society--of institutions and practices that are independent of political power. Civil society offers a check on government, and forms the bedrock of political democracy. As independent power centers become more important in China, the state will be forced to concede some power to them. This is the pattern that has led to democracy across East Asia--in South Korea, in Taiwan, and in the Philippines. Just as in these countries, market reforms and private sector growth can also be expected to lead to political liberalization in China. 
   In this regard, it is worth considering the concerns of those who do not favor great openness and democracy in China. A story in the Washington Post, on March 13, 2000, notes that:  
   China's security services, including the People's Liberation Army, are concerned, analysts say, that joining the WTO will mark another step toward privatizing China's economy and importing even more Western ideas about management and civil society--a headache for those whose job it is to ensure the longevity of the one-party Communist state.  
   By voting for PNTR, we give the hardliners in China even more to worry about. We must pass this important legislation--not just for our own economic benefit, but to encourage and accelerate the reforms and openings that are currently taking place in China. We must not let this historic opportunity slip away. 
   Some have also suggested that the grant of PNTR must be tempered by our concern for China's neighbor Taiwan. But the bill that we are voting on today--the House version of PNTR--already includes a provision asking that the WTO approve the accession of both China and Taiwan at the same WTO session. The United States must remain committed to that policy--of immediate Taiwanese membership in the World Trade Organization. 
   It bears mention that Chen Shui-Ban, the recently elected President of Taiwan, also supports China's entry into the WTO club. In a March 22 interview with the Los Angeles Times, Mr. Chen stated:  
   We would welcome the normalization of U.S.-China relations, just like we hope that cross-strait relations [will improve]. ..... We look forward to both the People's Republic of China's and Taiwan's accession to WTO.  
   Few have more at stake in China's future course--and in its attitude toward its neighbors--than the Taiwanese. Their leaders support China PNTR. 
   Finally, enacting PNTR will build on the edifice of free trade that the United States has been constructing for the last 50 years. This decade, in particular, has seen some impressive strides toward free trade, with the approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1994. When those agreements were set in place, we heard dire warnings from the naysayers of trade, who predicted a giant sucking sound of good jobs and capital investment leaving this country. But we need no longer evaluate those predictions in the abstract. Since that time, the rest of the 1990s have elapsed, and we can see the product of the modern free-trade regime. Since the enactment of NAFTA and GATT, we have seen: 
   More jobs: In the 1990s, total civilian employment in the United States has surged by 16 million jobs. 
   Better jobs: Over 80% of the new jobs created since 1993 have been in industry/occupation categories that pay above-median wages. 65% are in the highest-paying third of job categories. 
   Families are better off: Between 1993 and 1998, real average household income has grown between 9.9% and 11.7% for every quintile of the income distribution. For African-Americans, it has grown by 15%. For families in the lowest quintile, income rose at a 2.7% annual rate. 
   Trade brings more and better jobs: Last year, international trade supported over 12 million American jobs. Exports to China alone supported over 200,000 American jobs directly, and tens of thousands more jobs indirectly. And these export-related jobs are better jobs, paying on average 17% more than non-export related jobs. 
   The trade naysayers also warned that free trade would lead to capital flight from the United States--that as soon as we let down our trade barriers, all of our factories would relocate abroad and that new investments would follow them. It hasn't happened. Instead, our manufacturing base is thriving: 
   Manufacturing output has gone up, not down: Since 1992, manufacturing output in the United States has risen by 42%. Domestic output of motor vehicles has shot up 51%, and domestic automobile employment has increased by 177,000 to almost 1 million. America remains the world's top exporter of manufactured goods. Among America's leading exports in 1998 were aircraft, computer equipment, telecommunications equipment, valves and transistors, passenger cars, and car parts. 
   Direct investment in the United States is soaring: In the 1990s, the United States has been the world's largest recipient of foreign investment. In 1999, fixed nonresidential private investment in the United States exceeded $1 trillion. 
   Low-wage countries are not siphoning away investment: From 1994-98, U.S. manufacturing investment in Mexico averaged $1.7 billion annually. But in 1997, U.S. investment in U.S. manufacturing totaled $192 billion. In 1998, 80% of U.S. investment in foreign manufacturing was in other high-wage countries. (The top five destinations were Great Britain, Canada, the Netherlands, Germany, and Singapore.) Rather than low wages, investors seek countries with economic stability, well-developed infrastructure, lucrative market potential, and skilled workers. We have nothing to fear from lower barriers to U.S. investment in underdeveloped countries such as China. 
   Finally, it bears mention the trade also benefits American consumers. Free trade has reduced the prices that American consumers pay for everyday goods--saving the average American family of four as much as $3,000 a year. 
   In the early 1990s, we might have doubted. But we rejected the counsel of the trade scaremongers, those who thought that the United States would not be able to compete in a free-trade world. And today we are better off for it--with more and better jobs, a stronger manufacturing base, and a better standard of living. It is time to build upon success, and enact the next item in the free trade agenda, by putting into law China PNTR. 
   I have previously spoken on the floor of the Senate about the importance of this agreement to the U.S. economy, how it will help increase jobs in manufacturing and business activities here as we can more readily export goods to China. By joining the World Trade Organization and having the U.S. Government grant permanent normal trade relations to China, China will be forced to lower its tariffs on goods that it is importing from the United States. That will enable us to export more products to the world's largest market. 
   This agreement is of particular importance to the State of Illinois, and that is because Illinois is a major exporting State. If Illinois were a freestanding nation, it would be one of the largest exporting nations in the entire world. Not only do we have a large agricultural economy--we are the third largest agricultural producer in the United States--but in addition, we have a diverse manufacturing base. It is hoped that after this agreement is implemented, we will be able to export more corn, more soybeans, more cattle, more beef production, as well as more pork production, to China. China, with 1.3 billion mouths to feed, is a potentially vast market for U.S. agricultural products. 
   In addition, we have large manufacturing concerns in Illinois, such as Caterpillar based in Peoria, with factories all over the State of Illinois; John Deere based in the quad cities part of our State; and Motorola, one of the largest manufacturers of cell phones and other high-tech products. This agreement will benefit businesses such as those and thousands of other smaller businesses in Illinois that make  products which they will be more easily able to export to China following this agreement. 
   During this debate on PNTR, the economic reasons for voting in favor of this agreement have been thoroughly addressed. Opponents have argued that somehow this agreement will cause the United States to lose jobs. They made those same dire warnings in the early 1990s when we were considering the free trade agreement with Mexico and Canada that became known as NAFTA, as well as when we were going into the World Trade Organization. There were dire predictions of a giant sucking sound of jobs going across the border. 
   Those predictions have not been borne out. In the intervening years, we have seen our economy grow dramatically. We have added 16 million jobs in the intervening years, and we continue to create jobs, high-paying jobs, at a very dramatic rate. 
   Not only that, the most recent statistics show that more capital is being invested in the United States than anywhere else in the world right now. 
   Of the capital that our manufacturers are investing in foreign countries, they are not, as predicted, investing it all in low-cost poorer underdeveloped countries, but, in fact, the largest recipients of U.S. capital, in recent years, have been advanced nations such as Great Britain, Germany, and the Netherlands. 
   It turns out that our manufacturers, when they have wanted to invest abroad, have not only looked for low-cost--that certainly would be a plus--but they have looked for stable economies, with good infrastructures, and strong, skilled labor forces, as well as good market potential. So I think the opponents of the expansion of free trade have been mistaken when they predicted that it would hurt our jobs for us in this country and harm our economy. 
   But there is one other side to this, in which the opponents say, even if they can see the economic argument in favor of free trade, they argue that we should vote against free trade with China for moral reasons. I wanted to take the floor to address those arguments because I disagree strongly with what they have said. 
   Many opponents of permanent normal trade relations with China have suggested that by giving up the annual review of our trade status with China, we will lose any leverage we have to affect human rights conditions in that nation. But here, too, I believe the opponents of the agreement are wrong. 
   First, the Chinese Communists no longer take the annual trade review process seriously. Congress has renewed that status every year since it was first granted in 1979. Whatever credibility the annual process of granting normal trade relations to China has had, that all evaporated when China was granted that status in 1989 following the Tiananmen Square massacre. 
   While annual review does not work, engagement does. The most immediate effect of granting permanent normal trade relations to China will be to shore up the position of the reformers in the Chinese Government. Zhu Rongji, the current Premier, is widely regarded as the most pro-reform leader in China. Mr. Rongji has staked his career on the passage of this agreement and the future of permanent normal trade relations. 
   China's impending WTO membership has been the most hotly debated topic in China since 1989. The current leadership has agreed to adopt sweeping economic reforms in exchange for Chinese accession to the WTO. Should we accept China into that body, these reforms will be cemented into place. They will become an international commitment, enforceable through the WTO's multilateral enforcement mechanism. But should the United States reject China's offer of increased openness, we would deal a serious blow to China's reformers and greatly strengthen the hand of Communist hard-liners. 
   PNTR will also contribute to the development of a freer and more democratic society in China at the grassroots. The reforms accompanying China's WTO admission would accelerate the growth of the private sector in China and will make it possible for more Chinese to work for foreign companies. These changes are important for the progression of freedom in China. 
   What most people do not think about in this debate is that at the current time most Chinese workers are employed by their Government. I think the figure is close to 70 percent. These workers are paid minimal wages, very low wages. Most of their compensation is in the form of housing, health care, and education. They have to work in order to get those benefits. 
   But state workers' reliance on these benefits greatly increases the Chinese Government's control over them. Individuals who depend on the state for basic necessities are generally loath to criticize the Government or otherwise to incur its wrath. 
   Increased private ownership, which will result from China's accession into the World Trade Organization, and increased employment by private companies--American, European, and companies from around the world--doing business in China, employing Chinese workers in the private sector, will help break the Chinese people's cycle of dependence on the Government and will do much to loosen the Government's grip over its citizens. 
   Moreover, the emergence of alternative power centers in China, through private enterprise and the accumulation of private property, will spur the growth of civil society in China, fostering institutions and practices that are beyond political control. 
   Civil society offers a check on government and forms the bedrock of political democracy. As independent institutions become more important in China, the state will inevitably cede some power to them. This is the path that has led to democracy across Asia, in South Korea, in Taiwan, and in the Philippines. 
   Members of the Senate need not take my word for this. As Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan recently noted:  
   History has demonstrated that implicit in any removal of power from central planners and broadening of market mechanisms ..... is a more general spread of rights to individuals. Such a development will be a far stronger vehicle to foster other individual rights than any other alternative of which I am aware.  
   Thus, I am making the argument that has not really been made too often in this whole debate: That not only is this agreement good for our economy, for our job creation, and for our business sector, but adoption of this agreement in the legislation we will vote on on Tuesday will be good for the Chinese people because it will ultimately breed more freedom within that country. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to double the limit on loan deficiency payments (LDP) and marketing loan gains. 
   The hard work and ingenuity of America's farmers have made U.S. agriculture the pride of the nation. But farmers today face serious challenges. Record low commodity prices continue to besiege family throughout our great nation. For the past 3 years, American farmers have faced the lowest prices in recent memory. Prices have plummeted for almost every agricultural commodity--corn, soybeans, wheat and the list goes on. The bottom line is that many farmers throughout this Nation are having trouble making ends meet. 
   Appropriately, Congress has responded with economic assistance to offset these hard times. However, while last year's assistance package included a much needed provision to expand limits on marketing loan gains and loan deficiency payments, this year's assistance package did not include such a provision. 
   As we move into harvest time, prices have trended downward, and many now realize that loan deficiency payments per bushel may be quite large for many agricultural commodities. With the combination of high yields and high per bushel marketing gains, many farmers now realize that they could easily bump up against these payment limitations. Recognizing this impending problem, farm groups, including the American Farm Bureau Federation, have asked that these payment limitations be eased, but not removed. 
   According to industry experts, a 700-acre corn farmer will exceed the $75,000 cap. For farmers who exceed this cap, their only recourse is to forego the much-needed income or use the bureaucracy-ridden commodity certificates program. Estimates project that the additional drying, shrinkage and storage costs that a accompany the commodity certificate program will cost farmers an additional $33.46 per acre of grain. Farmers can ill-afford this lost income during these hard economic times. 
   Today, I am introducing legislation to solve this dilemma. The bill simply doubles the LDP limit from $75,000 to $150,000 for this crop year. This legislation is consistent with a provision that was included in last year's farm economic assistance package. 
   Surprisingly, this provision may actually provide cost-savings to the federal government through staff time reduction. Anecdotally, Illinois Farm Service Agency employees report that it takes about two hours of staff time to complete a loan forfeiture using the commodity certificate process, while the loan deficiency payment process requires only 15 minutes. 
   When the 1996 farm bill was written, no one could have foreseen our current situation of extremely low prices, and the $75,000 limit seemed appropriate. However, with the Asian market crash, unusually good weather, and exceptional crop yields, commodity prices have been driven to unforeseen lows, making a re-evaluation of the LDP cap appropriate and timely. This bill is good public policy and enjoys bipartisan support. I appreciate my colleagues--Senators EDWARDS, ASHCROFT, and DURBIN--who join me as sponsors of this legislation, and I encourage other Senators to co-sponsor this sorely-needed change in farm policy. 
   Agriculture is critical to the economy of America, and is the Nation's largest employer. For farmers to prosper, our Nation must have economic policies that promote investment and growth in agricultural communities and agricultural States like my home State of Illinois. A healthy agricultural economy has ripple effects through many industries and is critical for the economic prosperity of both Illinois and America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, today I am introducing a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement should recognize and admit to full membership Israel's Magen David Adom Society with its emblem, the Red Shield of David. I thank Senators LIEBERMAN, HAGEL, HELMS, and LUGAR for joining me as original cosponsors of this important resolution. 
   The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is the largest humanitarian network in the world. The Movement has many components, including the International Committee of the Red Cross (the ICRC--the Swiss-based founding institution of the Movement that serves as a neutral intermediary in armed conflict areas) and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (the Federation, which groups together the Movement's 176 recognized national societies and coordinates international disaster relief and refugee assistance in non-conflict areas). 
   The Red Shield of David has been in use and recognized de.facto since 1930 as the distinctive emblem of the medical and first aid services of the Jewish population in Palestine and, after 1948, the state of Israel. Israel signed the Geneva Conventions in 1949. The new state of Israel therefore attempted to have the Red Shield of David recognized in the Geneva Conventions as an alternative to the red cross, the red crescent, and the red lion and sun. In a secret ballot, however, Israel's request was rejected, 22 to 21. The end result was that Israel's equivalent of the Red Cross, Magen David Adom (MDA), was relegated to non-voting observer status and thereby effectively excluded from the Movement. 
   In rejecting the Red Shield of David, and excluding Israel's national society from the Movement, the 1949 diplomatic convention established the principle that only those already using an exceptional sign--that is, a non-Red Cross emblem--had the right to continue using it. All new national societies would have to adopt the Red Cross. However, the admission of 25 new Red Crescent societies since 1949 demonstrates the inconsistency with which this principle has been applied. 
   Despite MDA's exclusion from the Movement, it has continuously played an active role in disaster assistance worldwide, recently helping to rescue trapped civilians following the 1999 earthquakes in Turkey and Greece. Israeli medical teams were also among the first to assist victims of severe flooding in Mozambique this year. ICRC officials have praised MDA for its ``life-saving work'' and report they have maintained ``excellent working relations'' with the MDA for decades. 
   The existing Protocols of the Geneva Conventions provide for two different uses of the Movement emblem: ``protective,'' whcih is used for protective purposes in armed conflicts and requires the use of a single unique emblem, and ``indicative,'' which is used for identification purposes in non-conflict circumstances, and therefore allows for the existence of several emblems. Currently, negotiations are underway to add a possible third Protocol to the Geneva Conventions to create a new neutral emblem and allow for MDA recognition with its emblem. However, before these negotiations can translate into formal recognition, significant procedural hudles must be overcome, including super-majority votes of three bodies and ratification by member nations that could take years. Meanwhile, the American Red Cross has been pursuing other approaches that would allow for the recognition of MDA and its emblem without the introduction of a third Protocol. 
   The resolution I am introducing today would help facilitate the negotiating process by putting the Senate on record in support of MDA recognition at a critical time in these negotiations. The House of Representatives passed a similar resolution on May 3, 2000. The Senate, however, last announced its support of recognition of MDA and its emblem over 12 years ago. 
   Over the last six years, the United States Government has provided the ICRC and the Federation with $713 million. Once again, the United States Senate should urge the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement to recognize the Red Shield of David emblem and admit MDA for full membership in the Movement. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this resolution to encourage the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement to recognize Israel's Magen David Adom society and its emblem, the Red Shield of David.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for 5 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to deliver some remarks upon the death of our beloved colleague, PAUL COVERDELL. 
   It is no exaggeration to say that the whole Senate is in a state of shock that we no longer have PAUL with us. Just last week, Senator COVERDELL was among us on the Senate floor debating legislation, visiting with us in the Cloakroom, speaking up in our weekly Republican conference. And now, only a short period later, he is no longer with us. To my knowledge, PAUL never seemed to have had any health problems. He certainly seemed fine last week. 
   My last remembrance of him is just how happy he was when we adjourned on Friday afternoon after we passed that landmark legislation repealing the death tax. I guess the fact that PAUL is no longer with us reminds us all that we need to keep life in perspective. 
   I first met Senator COVERDELL when I was first campaigning for the Senate 2 or 3 years ago. From that first time I met him, I came away with a very powerful impression that he was a most sincere and decent and friendly person. In all my dealings with him in my year and a half in the Senate, that impression never changed. PAUL was always in a good, cheerful mood. He was always positive and upbeat. I never once saw him raise his voice or get angry at anybody. He was unfailingly polite and courteous at all times and to everyone. He was the quintessential southern gentleman and a delight to know. 
   In the Senate, we debate issues of great moment to our country: war and peace, the economy, education policy. I guess it is sometimes the little, personal, seemingly inconsequential gestures of friendship that one remembers. I used to sit next to Senator COVERDELL every week in our Wednesday Republican luncheons. I got to know PAUL that way, not only as a colleague but as a person. Every week PAUL would gently rib me for eating my main course before I ate my salad. Week after week he would comment on that. I think finally he just concluded that that was a peculiar habit of midwesterners. 
   I will always remember the smile and the twinkle in PAUL COVERDELL's eyes, and I won't easily forget him or my friendship with him. 
   PAUL, I am proud to have served with you. I am going to miss you. We are all going to miss you. You enriched this Senate, the State of Georgia, and the whole country by your service. Our thoughts and prayers are with you and your wonderful wife Nancy and your family. May God bless you and keep you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000718</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee about the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library that is planned for construction in Springfield, Illinois. 
   Currently, the Nation is without an institution that honors the legacy of one of our greatest Presidents, Abraham Lincoln. The Lincoln Library would serve as museum and interpretive center, allowing visitors and scholars to learn about the events that shaped Lincoln's life and the contributions that he made to the history of our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask consent to use my 10 minutes to speak on the underlying bill, the estate tax measure. 
   I think there are a couple of issues that need greater attention in this debate over the Federal estate tax. We have an underlying bill sponsored by Senator KYL that will gradually abolish the tax over the next 10 years. The Democrats offered a substitute that was just defeated. The Democrat substitute purported to raise an exemption that is now available in the code for family businesses and for family farms. 
   There are two points I want to make. One goes to the issue of exactly how much revenue would be lost by abolishing the Federal death tax, or the inheritance tax as it is sometimes called. Last year, the Federal Government took in $24.8 billion in death taxes. If we were to abolish that amount, if we were to abolish that estate tax altogether, we would lose that $24.8 billion. What this debate has been ignoring is that right now when an estate is taxed, the assets passed to the next generation are given, for capital gains purposes, what tax lawyers call ``a stepped-up basis.'' That means any assets your heirs take after the estate tax has been assessed, if they were to sell those assets, they would pay zero in capital gains taxes. When the Federal Government takes in $24.8 billion in estate taxes, it is actually giving up a whole lot in Federal capital gains taxes. 
   Senator KYL's proposal abolishes the Federal inheritance tax, or the estate tax, over 10 years, but after the estate tax is gone, heirs who take assets inherited from a previous generation will still have to pay capital gains taxes. They will no longer get that so-called stepped-up basis for capital gains purposes. In other words, if you have a grandfather or a father or mother who bought a farm in 1960 for $100,000 and that farm is passed along to the next generation and the heirs take that farm and after their parents have died they decide to sell that farm, they will have to pay capital gains taxes on the  difference between the sale price and the original purchase price of their parents. If in the year 2000 they sell that farm that cost $100,000 in 1960 for $1 million, they pay $180,000 in capital gains taxes--20 percent of their capital gain of $900,000. 
   If they inherited that farm today and, say, their parents' estate had paid the estate tax, without Senator KYL's bill, if they sold that farm for $1 million, they would pay zero in capital gains taxes. Senator KYL's bill is switching from an estate tax rate to a capital gains tax rate. There isn't all this loss of revenue that the other side is talking about. 
   Somebody on the other side of the aisle brought up the example of the Forbes 400 list and said this would be a $250 billion windfall for them. That ignores that once Senator KYL's bill passes, heirs of the Forbes 400 would all have to pay gigantic capital gains taxes. 
   I think actually when all is said and done, considering the jobs we will save, the family farms that will be allowed to stay in the families once we have abolished the death tax, family farmers are six times as likely as ordinary Americans to incur the Federal estate tax. That is because they have the classic ill-liquid estate. They may have huge assets in the value of that farmland. They worked all their lives, sweating and paying taxes on every year's income, and buying that farm with aftertax dollars. It may have taken their entire career in farming to finally pay off the mortgage on their farm and then when they die, the Federal Government is going to take 55 percent of that farm, taking away the fruits of their life labor. They cannot hand it down to the next generation; or the next generation, if they want to keep it, has to incur a huge amount of debt to pay off those Federal estate taxes. 
   What Senator KYL's bill does is change it so what activates the tax is no longer death. What will activate the tax is when somebody decides to sell a capital asset, such as a family farm or a family business. Then they will pay capital gains taxes. As in ordinary circumstances, when you sell a capital asset, you pay capital gains taxes. Selling would activate the tax. Death would no longer be a taxable event. Wouldn't that be better for everyone if that was the case? 
   Now, the Democrats made very much of their counterproposal to expand the exemption available under 2057 of the Tax Code. There is a larger exemption for family farms and small businesses that is already in the Tax Code. The Democrats' proposal was to expand that to $4 million for a husband and $4 million for a wife so that potentially a couple could hand down an $8 million farm or $8 million family business. 
   That sounds like a great idea. The only problem is, you have to look at section 2057. When you look at 2057, you realize it is 6 pages long. To be a qualifying family farm or a qualifying small business under section 2057, you have to go through 13 pages worth of hoops. There are innumerable cross-references to other sections in the code, some 64 cross-references just to section 2032A. That is why, as Senator KYL pointed out, only 3 percent to 4 percent of family farms and small businesses in this country can actually qualify for this section 2057 exemption. It is very hard to qualify for it. 
   In fact, recently, the tax section of the American Bar Association urged Congress to repeal section 2057 because it leaves too great a potential for lawyer malpractice. It is a very complicated provision of the code. It really only offers false hope. It is a mirage. The counterproposal on the other side of the aisle was really a sham. It offered no relief, no safe harbor. No small business, no family farm could have staked much hope on their counterproposal. 
   Finally, I think it is important that we adopt Senator KYL's measure because it would get rid of the Federal death tax. If you identify cancer in somebody's body, you don't go in and only take out part of it. You have to get it all so it does not grow back again. If we do not get it all, if we do not get this cancer in our Tax Code, there is always the possibility that a future Congress or administration will come back and try to grow it again. In fact, it was only a few years ago that President Clinton was talking about lowering the estate tax threshold so families who had over $200,000 would start incurring the estate tax. 
   I compliment my colleague, Senator KYL, and others who have worked so hard on this provision. For the State of Illinois, which is a major agricultural producer, the third largest ag State in the country, with some of the highest yielding land in the country, we have thousands of family farms and businesses that revolve around farms--all of rural Illinois outside the Chicago area. Nothing has contributed more to the sale of family farms than the estate tax. When the estate tax went in, back in 1916, keep in mind, we were just developing an income tax in this country. We were just developing a corporate system of taxation in this country. It was all different. The exemption in 1916, to keep pace with inflation, would have to be a $9 million exemption today. 
   I think it is high time Congress act on this matter. We are simply switching, trading estate tax rates for less onerous capital gains tax rates, and giving the American people, the small businesses and the family farmers, the options to keep their family farms and their businesses within their families for another generation, to continue employing people and keeping our economy productive. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I join the efforts of my colleague from Michigan, Senator ABRAHAM. I am a cosponsor of this amendment which would temporarily roll back or suspend the 18.3-cent-per-gallon Federal gas tax. 
   When I was back home during the Fourth of July recess and was marching in all those parades, I had the exact same experience that Senator ABRAHAM had. I was hearing from my constituents about the high price of gasoline. 
   After returning to the Nation's Capitol, where we talk about so many other issues, from foreign policy to domestic concerns, we have heard very little discussion about what Washington can do to bring down the price of gasoline at the pumps. That is the issue on the minds of most American citizens. 
   In the Midwest, in particular--in my State of Illinois, Senator ABRAHAM's State of Michigan, other Midwestern States such as Ohio--the price has been much higher than the national average. Fortunately, in the last few weeks, in Illinois, it has begun to come down. But part of the reason it has begun to come down in the State of Illinois is because the Illinois Legislature took action. 
   At the end of last month, the Illinois Legislature went into a special session and rolled back their approximately 10-cent-per-gallon, or 5-percent, sales tax on gasoline. They suspended it until the end of the year. That immediately brought a price reduction of 10 cents per gallon at the pump. 
   But prices are still too high in Illinois. The average price in the city of Chicago is around $1.80 per gallon. That 
   is, thankfully, down from the $2.13 a gallon that it was a few weeks back. 
   But if Senators take the time to go back and look at their legislative correspondence to see what kind of mail they are receiving on this issue from their constituents from around their States, and talk to their constituents, they will see the amount and the type of suffering that people are enduring. 
   When we introduced this amendment earlier as a freestanding bill, I read several letters from constituents in Illinois that explained the problems they are confronting now with the high cost of gasoline. 
   We have letters from small business owners. I remember one business owner in particular from McHenry County, IL, who had 10 to 20 employees, depending on the time of the year. His small business was very dependent on transportation, and he was going broke with this high cost of gasoline. 
   I had a community college student from Shelbyville, down in southern Illinois, write to me and say he was regretting the fact he had turned down offers from several of our State's 4-year universities because he thought that tuition was too high. Instead, he had decided to go to a community college. He thought he would save money and do 2 years at the community college. 
   But now, because he had a long commute to his community college, it was making that community college unaffordable; he wished he had instead decided to go to one of the 4-year universities. He thinks it might have been cheaper for him. 
   I read a letter from a family outside the Peoria area where the wife commuted 100 miles a day, round trip, to work, and the husband 55 miles. They estimated they had to drive the kids another 15 miles a day to their soccer games, their baseball games, their band events, and other school extracurricular activities. They were suffering greatly as a result of the high cost of gasoline. 
   We have talked much in this Senate this past year about the high price of prescription drugs. We are trying to do something about that. I had a senior citizen write me and say: Because of the high cost of gasoline, I now can't afford to drive to the pharmacy to buy the prescription drugs I already can't afford. 
   There is a lot of real suffering going on out there. We can sit around and wait and do nothing. I do believe eventually those prices will come down. They may not go back down to where they were a year and a half or 2 years ago, but they will come down because production is getting ramped up domestically. 
   I visited an oil well in southern Illinois last week--in fact, several oil wells. All of a sudden some of these small stripper wells in southern Illinois, many of which were dormant 2 years ago when the price for a barrel of oil was between $8 and $10 a barrel; and they could not make money so many of those wells shut down--in fact, there are 32,000 oil wells in Illinois and 9,000 of them were shut down 2 years ago. And now, of those 9,000 wells, 7,000 have come back into production. 
   That suggests to me, with that kind of activity, eventually that supply is going to be felt across the country, and it will lower prices at the pump. But it is going to take some time. In fact, it is going to take months. 
   We do need to have a long-term policy to ensure an adequate national supply of oil and of gasoline. In the meantime, we need to provide some temporary relief. Senator ABRAHAM and I and others, Senator HUTCHISON of Texas, have crafted this bill to provide temporary relief for the people who need it most: the small business owners who are going broke, the people who have long commutes to work, the senior citizens who cannot afford to drive to the pharmacy, the community college students who cannot afford the commute to their community college. 
   There may be some arguments against this bill. I know there are some on the other side of the aisle who get up and vote against any tax relief. On the current measure, on the death tax, many have argued that we should not be giving that relief to higher income individuals, people with large estates. At least there is a colorable claim; that argument has some merit to it. I think it is rebuttable. But that same argument cannot be made with respect to the Federal gas tax. Of all the taxes in our enormous Tax Code, this tax is one of the most regressive and one of the most onerous for low- and middle-income people. They can least afford the high cost of gasoline. 
   There are not a lot of other things the Federal Government can do to bring down the price of gasoline at the pump. In fact, the only direct instrument we have to affect prices at the pump is to lower or reduce that Federal gas tax. There are no other instruments. We don't have price controls in this country. We had them for a while in the 1970s. That created shortages and rationing, and Ronald Reagan ended the oil crisis by eliminating those price controls. We have a free market system. 
   What happened is, the price of a barrel of oil got down to $8 to $10 a barrel. Production was cut back. Ultimately, we are now suffering from lack of an oil supply. It will come back in this country, but we need to provide relief for people. The argument cannot be made that this most benefits high-income individuals. 
   I strongly emphasize that Senator ABRAHAM has written this bill so that there is not one cent of revenue lost to the highway trust fund. That is a very important point. We should not hear objections that this is going to hurt road funding in this country. It will have no effect on it. The amount will be charged to the general fund. 
   I thank my colleague from Michigan, Mr. ABRAHAM, and I yield the floor so other of my colleagues may address this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I was in the city of Chicago to announce the introduction of a bill today called the Federal Fuel Tax Relief Act of 2000. I was standing in Chicago on La Salle Street, in what is known as the Loop, the premier business district in downtown Chicago. I was at a gas station there. Behind me you could see the prices at the pump that that particular gas station in Chicago was advertising. Those gas prices were well over $2 a gallon. In fact, I think the price for the  premium blend of fuel was up over $2.30 a gallon. 
   Right now, we are in the midst of a very serious crisis in my part of the country with respect to gas prices. Prices throughout Illinois are at record highs. They are at record highs in Michigan, in Ohio, in other parts of the Midwest. 
   I am afraid if we do not bring down the cost of gas at the pumps, we are going to be seeing shock waves throughout our entire Nation's economy. The bill I am introducing today is S. 2790. What it would do is bring immediate relief by lowering the cost of gas nationwide for 90 days by temporarily rolling back the 18.3-cent-per-gallon Federal gas tax. 
   In the last couple of weeks, anybody who has been following the news anywhere in this country has seen nothing but nonstop coverage about the escalating price, the rising price of gasoline. The response at the State level and at the Federal level, amongst public officials, has been to find somebody to blame. Is it the OPEC nations? Is it the oil industry? Is it the administration? But no one is taking any action to actually bring down prices. We can argue about culpability later. What we need to do now is to lower prices at the pump or we are going to see losses of jobs and losses of economic productivity. 
   We will see senior citizens who cannot even afford to drive to the pharmacy to buy the pharmaceuticals, for which they already are having a hard time paying. We are going to see college students who cannot afford to make the commute to their community colleges. We need to have a long-term plan to increase productivity of oil in this country to lessen our dependence on foreign sources of oil. There are a number of measures that have been introduced in recent weeks in the Congress. The administration last week sent over recommendations on what our long-term solution should be for this energy crunch. 
   But in the meantime, there are countless families all across the country that may have to cancel summer vacations, families that have worked hard all year, but now all of a sudden, when it comes time for them to have a couple of weeks off to take their families on a vacation, they can't afford the cost of the vacation because the price of gasoline has gone up so much. 
   There will be many who will criticize my proposal. There will be many who come up with arguments against it. Certainly many will bring up the point that the proceeds from the motor fuels tax goes into our Federal highway trust fund. This legislation would hold harmless the highway trust fund. It would require the Federal Government to make up any loss to the highway trust fund by taking money from the on-budget or non-Social Security surplus and indemnify that road fund. We all want to make sure we continue to improve and repair our roads in this country. 
   But the fact remains, the only instrument that the Federal and State governments have to directly affect the price of gasoline at the pump is to lower the motor fuels tax. My State, 
   I hope, is going to do its part. A couple of weeks back, I pointed out that Illinois has amongst the highest gas taxes in the country. In fact, in addition to a motor fuel tax that is 19 cents a gallon, the State of Illinois has a sales tax on motor fuel that is assessed on top of the Federal motor fuels tax. In other words, Illinois has what we would call a tax on a tax. That sales tax on gasoline in Illinois is a percentage tax, so, as the selling price of gasoline has gone from $1 to over $2 in Illinois, the State's take on its sales tax has been increasing dramatically. It has doubled its take under that sales tax. 
   The Governor of Illinois and legislative leaders recently called a special session of our Illinois General Assembly, which will be convening in 2 days, to temporarily roll back or repeal that Illinois sales tax on gasoline. If they enact that legislation, that should take 10 cents off the price of every gallon of gas sold in Illinois. But the prices will still be too high. We need further relief. My State is not the only State that is suffering. States across the country, and particularly in the hard-hit Midwest, need relief. 
   Like you, Mr. President, and my other colleagues in the Senate, all of us are in virtually constant contact with our constituents. We have an endless stream of letters, of faxes, of e-mails, of calls to our offices on a daily basis. We travel up and down our States. We march in parades. We are constantly talking to the constituents, whether it is in the grocery store, as I was doing over the weekend, or in parades that I was in recently. The No. 1 single issue that I have been hearing about is we have to do something to bring down prices at the pump. 
   Let me share a few of the letters my office has received on this issue. I am going to try to just go through a few of them because we have gotten literally thousands. I think, to some of the people in Washington, the pain people are feeling out in the Midwest and around the country about the rising cost of gas sounds like some kind of theoretical abstraction. But I have to tell you, for real people who are trying to drive to work, who may have a long way to drive to work or get to school, or senior citizens on fixed incomes, or folks in lower income brackets--they are having a very tough time. I have had many people tell me they have canceled weekend vacations and they are planning to cancel summer vacations. 
   Let me read parts of a few of these letters. This one is from a resident of Springfield, IL, who is a part-time driver for a senior services van service that runs vans for senior citizens to and from a senior citizens center. He says that the escalating gas prices are really hurting the transportation budget at the center. If we have to shut down the van service, it would be a tremendous loss for the seniors. 
   This one from a senior citizen in southern Illinois says that now we cannot afford to drive to the pharmacy to purchase the drugs that we already cannot afford. 
   A person from Rantoul, IL, says that gas prices in Illinois are too high. It costs me more than $87 a week to drive to and from work now that the prices have skyrocketed. I cannot afford this for much longer. 
   A small business owner in the Chicago suburbs--small businesses are suffering. He says: I have had small business men and women in my office saying they have lost money for several months in a row and could have to shut down if this keeps up. The current fuel prices are killing my small business. 
   I am a small business owner who employs 20 people from McHenry County and 10 people from Lake County. 
   This increase in fuel is killing my profit line. If this does not stop, I do not know how much longer we can survive. 
   This is an interesting letter from a community college administrator in central Illinois. This person pointed out that, unlike many colleges, his school is a commuter college and students drive anywhere from 20 to 60 miles. That is 40 to 120 miles round trip to attend college. Most of the students are trying to better themselves by working part time and going to school. Now with gasoline prices soaring, they are being forced to drop out. 
   This individual from Danville, IL, after a lengthy letter explaining how, for his job, he had to drive, at the end he said if the prices raise much higher, he will have to dip into his son's and daughter's education fund just so he can keep driving back and forth to work. 
   I have another letter from a community college student. He is from Sherman, IL. He describes in his letter how he turned down State full-time universities because of the cost and because he wanted to attend his community college. It would be more affordable. 
   Now that he has started at his community college and is having to dig deep into his pocket just to pay for the price of gas to get to and from college, he is getting squeezed. He has a 30-mile distance to go just to get to his school. He said: Just to let you know, I am not a freeloader. I am currently holding down three jobs and working through the summer. I do not expect you to work a miracle, but maybe submit some form of legislation that would reduce the price or give a break to students furthering their education. 
   A husband from western Illinois has to commute 100 miles a day to work. That is how it is in rural parts of the country, as the Presiding Officer knows in his largely rural State. The wife has to drive 55 miles to work, and then the kids have to go 15 miles for their various athletic events and the like. 
   He says: We are probably more fortunate than most people, but if this  keeps up, it will be hard to commute into work every day, and there is no public transportation or opportunity to car pool in our downstate Illinois region. We barely have highways. 
   Finally, another letter from a retired senior citizen on fixed income said: It is extremely hard to get along with gasoline prices so high. I have curtailed driving to a bare minimum, only to the doctor, shopping, church, and as a volunteer to a community radio station where I broadcast a show every Saturday. 
   I think we need to take action. It is time for Washington and Congress to stop playing the blame game. We can argue about who is culpable later. I support the Federal Trade Commission investigation. We need to find out if anybody has been colluding in the oil industry or anywhere else to fix prices, and if they have been, they ought to go to jail for a very long time. 
   That investigation is going to take a while. It is going to take a while to put pressure on OPEC nations to loosen the taps and to increase production. It is going to take a while until we get incentives in the system for the small oil well drillers in the United States to boost their production. 
   Once that is boosted, we could be getting as many as 500,000 more barrels of oil a day. We probably have to take a look at what kind of tax laws we have to give people incentives to keep drilling even when the price of oil is low, but we need to give people relief now. 
   It is a compassionate move. It makes sense. Our country, the most prosperous country in the world, can afford to give some relief to taxpayers and consumers, and if we do not give that relief, we will probably pay for it later because there is going to be a slowdown in economic activity. It may start in the Midwest, but it is eventually going to send shock waves all across the country, and this country could go into a long slump because of it. 
   I hope to get many Senators and Members of this body as cosponsors of this legislation. We had a test vote earlier in the year, in April, on temporarily lowering the Federal gas tax. At that time, the measure received only 43 votes. It needed over 50 to pass. That was 2 months ago, and in the intervening time, oil prices have continued to skyrocket. The price which was only theoretical 2 months ago is now real. It is upon us. We need to take action. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business for up to 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to revitalize and streamline the federal program governing agricultural commodity warehouses. This legislation, entitled the ``Warehouse Improvement Act of 2000,'' will make U.S. agriculture more competitive in foreign markets through efficiencies and cost savings provided by today's computer technology and information management systems. 
   The Warehouse Act was originally enacted in 1916, and was subsequently amended in 1919, 1923, and 1931. However, since that time, the authorizing legislation for this program has seen little change. At the same time, U.S. agriculture and our society has seen drastic changes since the early part of the 20th century. Computer technology has revolutionized our world and laptops and handheld computers have become almost commonplace. Now is the time for us to bring USDA's agricultural warehouse program out of the dark ages and into the information age. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, this is an amendment that corrects a flaw in Department of Defense procurement rules that has increased military costs and had a severe impact on this nation's arsenals. Recently implemented rules requires U.S. arsenals to overstate their true cost of supplying goods and services to the military. As a result, arsenals have been losing bids  on contracts under competitive bidding procedures, even when use of an arsenal would lead to lower overall costs for the Department of Defense. This quirk in the rules has not only increased Department of Defense expenditures; it has also led to severe underutilization of the arsenals, threatening the viability of an invaluable national resource. 
   Under Defense Working Capital Fund procurement rules, which were implemented in 1996, government-owned military suppliers are required to charge the military the full cost of any good or service that they supply to the Armed Forces. The idea behind these rules was to discourage overconsumption of goods and services by the military, and to promote cost transparency--to make it clear to the government how much it was paying to have a good or service supplied by a government-owned facility. Individual military departments were encouraged to seek the lowest price available for goods and services--and to allow private companies to compete with government-owned facilities for military contracts. 
   Unfortunately, the DWCF rules also include a number of provisions that place domestic facilities at a substantial disadvantage to their private competitors. The domestic suppliers are required to include a number of items in their contract bids that are unrelated to their marginal cost of actually supplying a good or and service to the military. For example, suppliers are now required to bill their net capital investment costs in a given year to all of their customers in that year--even if the equipment that was purchased has no relation to the customers' contracts. More severe for the arsenals is the DWCF rules' treatment of reserve capacity. All U.S. arsenals are required to maintain excess capacity, in order to be able to ramp up production immediately in the event of a war or military crisis. This unused plant capacity is something that no private business would maintain--a private business would simply sell off or lease out its unused assets. And the costs of maintaining this capacity are substantial. But DWCF rules, as they presently exist, require the arsenals to include reserve capacity costs in their bids when they compete with private companies for military contracts. 
   The results of this system have been predictable. Arsenals have repeatedly lost work to private companies, even when the true marginal cost of having the work performed by an arsenal is less than the price charged by a private contractor. Moreover, the United States government ends up paying for the arsenals' unused capacity anyway--either through higher costs on other arsenal contracts, or through accumulated operating deficits built up by the arsenals. Though the individual military department saves money when its purchasing agents buy from a private contractor instead of an arsenal, when those purchasing decisions are driven by avoidance of reserve capacity costs, the military as a whole loses. The government pays for reserve capacity anyway, and the military pays more to have the work done by a private company that the true marginal cost of having it done by an arsenal. 
   These conclusions are confirmed by a 1999 Department of Defense report on the DWCF system. The Defense Working Capital Fund Task Force's Issue Paper emphasizes that under the current system, though immediate purchasers may pay a lower price, ``the DoD will ultimately pay twice for maintaining both the essential organic capability as well as contracting out'' for the good or service. The DWCF rules' overpricing of arsenal services not only ``encourage[] behavior that is not optimal for the military as a whole,'' it also leads to an increasing disparity between military and private suppliers that ``results in an increasing abandonment of DWCF services.'' 
   For these reasons, I introduce the present amendment. This amendment provides for direct funding of unused plant-capacity costs at United States arsenals. By removing these reserve-capacity costs from arsenal bid prices, the amendment would allow arsenals to compete on an equal footing with private companies. And by allowing arsenal prices to reflect true marginal costs, it would not only bring more business to the arsenals; it would save money for the government. No longer would military purchasers be discouraged from using an arsenal when its actual marginal costs--those that would be charged by a private business--are less than the prices charged by a private contractor. And finally, direct funding would promote the goal of cost transparency--the original goal of the DWCF system. Separately budgeting for reserve capacity--while also allowing arsenal prices to reflect the true costs of providing goods and services. 
   Finally, I wish to emphasize that allowing the arsenals to fall into disuse would be a grave loss for the United States military. In my home state of Illinois, the Rock Island Arsenal has long been an important military resource. It is a proven, cost-effective producer of high-quality military equipment. It has also served as a valuable supplier of last resort, providing mission-critical parts and services to the Department of Defense when private contractors have lacked capacity or breached their contracts. The arsenal has been called on to provide M16 gun bolts when a private contractor defaulted on a contract. It has also produced mission-critical shims and pins for the Apache helicopter when outside suppliers were unable to meet the Army's deadline. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, thank you very much. 
   I take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee, Chairman WARNER, and also the ranking member, Senator LEVIN, for the amendment I offered, that they have accepted, I am told. 
   My amendment addresses the situation with our Nation's military arsenals. 
   We have the Rock Island arsenal in Rock Island, IL. It lies on an island in the Mississippi River between the border of Illinois and Iowa. The Rock Island Arsenal dates back to just about  the time of the Civil War. It has been producing outstanding equipment, with outstanding personnel, to our Nation's military for well over 100 years. 
   A few years ago, the military changed its procurement rules to require our Nation's arsenals, when they were bidding on a contract, to provide military hardware to our Army or Defense Department. It requires them to submit bids that not only include their marginal cost for producing the product but, in fact, requires them to add into their bid the entire overhead. 
   This new policy which the Defense Department established a few years ago has actually been harming taxpayers. Why, someone might ask, has that been harming taxpayers? What has been happening, as our Nation's arsenals--and there are three in this country; in addition to one in Illinois, there is one in New York and also one in Arkansas--go to bid on projects to provide supplies to the military, and they have to not only state their cost of building those supplies, they also have to add in the cost of their overhead. That means in analyzing those bids, the military is always going to prefer the bid of the private contractor. 
   In fact, our arsenals have been losing business from the U.S. Government. This has been harming taxpayers. The reason it has been harming the taxpayers is because once we pay the private contractor to build the weapon or perform on the contract, we are still paying to keep the arsenals open. So the taxpayers wind up paying twice for the project. 
   For example, a few years ago the military requested a new Light Towed Howitzer. They wound up giving the bid to a British defense firm. The Rock Island Arsenal lost out on the bid. The Government paid the British defense firm to start on the contract, but meanwhile, the Government and the taxpayers are still paying to keep the arsenals open. 
   My amendment is designed to correct this flaw which is wasting taxpayers' money. From now on, under this amendment, when domestic organic arsenals in this country bid on a military project, they will be able to state their incremental cost for building the product, if it is a Howitzer or other weapon for the military. This way, it will be more fair to the arsenals. They will be able to bid their actual cost and the playing field won't be tilted in favor of the private contractors. 
   Actually, the Department of Defense convened a defense working capital fund task force a couple of years ago that noted that the taxpayers were being billed twice for these military contractors; that it didn't make any sense. In fact, that issue paper which came out on February 25, 1999, and was issued by the defense working capital fund task force, concluded that  
   [T]he Department of Defense will ultimately pay twice for maintaining the essential organic capabilities as well as contracting out for the goods or services.  
   It went on to say that these rules cause an artificial, a fictitious bookkeeping entry that overprices the arsenal services and not only encourages behavior that is not optimal for the military as a whole, but also leads to an increasing disparity between military and private suppliers that ``results in an increasing abandonment of arsenal services.'' 
   Mr. President, I compliment the members of the Armed Services Committee and Chairman WARNER and also the ranking member for accepting my amendment. We should be able to help our Nation's arsenals and particularly the Rock Island Arsenal in Rock Island, IL, as well as save the taxpayers of this Nation some of their hard-earned money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, readers of the Chicago Tribune and newspapers across America suffered a great loss last Thursday when legendary political cartoonist Jeff MacNelly lost his battle with lymphoma. He was 52. 
   Jeff MacNelly was one of the giants of modern political commentary. In this era of multi-media communication, round-the-clock news, and ubiquitous political punditry, Jeff offered a fresh and witty perspective on local and national affairs. 
   It has been said that a picture is worth a thousand words. But Jeff MacNelly was a master, and his were worth more. No matter what the issue, no matter who the subject of his praise of caustic criticism, Jeff had a way of making his point and making you laugh at the same time. That was his gift. 
   Born in New York City in 1947, Jeff MacNelly knew he was meant to draw. He left college during his senior year in 1969 to pursue a career as a political cartoonist, and accepted a job with a weekly newspaper in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Jeff won his first Pulitzer Prize in 1972 at age 24, and two more followed in 1978 and 1985. His legendary comic strip ``Shoe,'' which he continued for the rest of his life, was born in 1977. By the time Jeff passed away last week, ``Shoe'' was syndicated in over 1,000 publications nationwide. Jeff briefly decided to retire his pen in 1981, but, missing the excitement of politics and the daily news business, was lured back into action in 1982 by the Chicago Tribune. He worked at the Tribune until his death. 
   For nearly 30 years, Jeff MacNelly entertained and informed us with his unique blend of humor and political insight. He died young, but left his mark--literally and figuratively--on the entire world.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I begin by thanking Senator MURKOWSKI for his efforts in introducing and promoting the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act which addresses an issue of critical importance to the nation and in particular to the State of Illinois. I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me in voting to override the President's veto of this vital legislation. 
   Nuclear waste disposal policy is one of the most significant issue facing our nation and my home State of Illinois. Illinois is home to 11 operating nuclear units which account for 38.4 percent of the electricity generated in Illinois in 1998. Nuclear energy also provided 20 percent of the electricity consumed by the nation as a whole last year. 
   Nuclear power also yields a large amount of nuclear waste. Since we do not presently reprocess this material, it must be stored, usually on site at nuclear facilities in communities throughout our nation. 
   Illinois is home to over 4,300 metric tons of commercial nuclear waste out of 30,000 tons located throughout the nation. This is more commercial nuclear waste than is found in any other State in the Union. 
   Utility companies from Illinois and throughout the country along with their consumers have paid approximately $16 billion into a fund to provide for a central national site for the storage of this waste mandated by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982. But as of yet, there has been no action taken by the Department of Energy to take this waste as it was mandated to do by 1998. Illinois consumers alone have contributed $2.14 billion to the federal Nuclear Waste Fund since 1983. This is about 12.5 percent of the total amount contributed to the fund today. 
   The DOE was required by statute to take possession of this waste in 1998. It failed to do so, and we now have a very serious problem. We need to decide the best way to allocate the costs of storage at existing facilities. To this end, Senator MURKOWSKI offered this legislation which addresses DOE's failure and requires the Department to take responsibility for the costs associated with its failure to act. 
   I again thank Senator MURKOWSKI for his longstanding support on this issue of critical importance to my State of Illinois and the nation. It is my hope that we can enact Senator MURKOWSKI's legislation and I urge all of my colleagues to vote to override the President's veto. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Thank you, Mr. President. I compliment my friend and colleague from the State of Texas for all of her hard work and leadership in trying to correct the marriage tax penalty. It is an unfair quirk in our Tax Code that we hope we can finally bring to an end at some point this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Organ Transplantation Fairness Act of 2000. 
   I thank my original cosponsors on this bill: Senators SCHUMER, DURBIN, SANTORUM, SPECTER, MIKULSKI, SARBANES, and KERREY. 
   Our Nation's organ procurement and transplant system is in serious need of change. 
   We could be saving more lives through organ transplants in this country than we are at the present time. 
   The purpose of our bill and the goals of our bill are threefold. 
   First, we want to increase the amount of organs that are being donated all across the country. 
   There are many more people who need to receive organs to remain alive. They need organ transplants, and there are not a sufficient number of people donating those organs. This bill attempts to address that issue. 
   Second, we want to bring greater fairness to how we allocate scarce organs after they are donated. 
   Right now those organs are not allocated in the best possible way. And because of problems in our allocation system, people are dying unnecessarily. We could be saving more lives. 
   The third goal of the bill is to seek to implement many of the recommendations of the Institute of Medicine in  their 1999 report entitled ``Organ Procurement and Transplantation.'' 
   In attempting to improve the system of organ procurement transplants in this country, we have picked out many of the Institute of Medicine's recommendations, and we tried to enact them into law. Our system is saving many more lives than it used to. 
   Organ transplantation is fairly new to this country. If you go back 20 years or so, there were very few organs being transplanted. But now many more people are benefiting and going on to live healthy lives thanks to people who have donated organs, and thanks to successful transplants. But as many lives as our system has saved, we are not saving as many lives as we could. 
   I have a chart to demonstrate this. As of today, there are over 68,000 American patients waiting for a life-saving organ transplant. 
   In 1998, the most recent statistics available, over 4,800 people died while on that organ transplant waiting list. 
   That means about 13 people a day are dying in this country while waiting to get an organ that can be transplanted into their bodies. 
   I said earlier that we are not saving as many lives as we could save. 
   Let me demonstrate why that is the case, and why we know we are not saving enough lives. 
   According to the Department of Health and Human Services, in 1998, some 71 percent of livers were transplanted to patients in the least urgent medical status categories. But at the same time that we were transplanting those livers into patients in the least urgent medical status categories, in the same year, 1,300 patients died while waiting for a liver. 
   How can it be that we are transplanting livers into patients who aren't in the most critically ill categories, while at the same time people in the most critical condition were dying for lack of a liver transplant? 
   The reason for that is we have a system in our country that is based on where you live. Whether you live or die because of an organ transplant may depend not on how sick you are but on where you live in this country. 
   Let's examine this a little bit more closely. 
   There is a private not-for-profit corporation in this country that has been given the authority to be in charge of our Nation's organ transplant and procurement network. They have set up a 
   series of regions. They divided the whole country into regions. There are organs that are available within those regions. But if you live outside one of the regions where an organ is available, you are not liable to get one of the organs when it comes up. 
   As a Senator from Illinois, I think the simplest thing for me to do in illustrating this problem is to use Illinois as an example. Most of Illinois is in organ procurement organization district 29. You can have a patient who lives in northern Illinois, just a few miles from the border of Wisconsin, and this patient could need a liver transplant. He or she could be in status 1 medical condition, which means he or she is in the most critical category and in need of a liver transplant immediately. A liver may become available just over the border in region 37, the Wisconsin network. But that liver can't be sent to the person in Illinois because that person in Illinois is in region 29--not 37. 
   If a liver becomes available from a donor in Wisconsin, they will first look to see if they have a very critically ill person who needs a liver transplant in region 37. If they don't find such a person, then they will go to somebody who is in a less urgent situation who doesn't need the liver as quickly as that other person in Illinois. Thus, somebody who may be in status 2, or even what they call status 3 medical condition, which isn't as critical as status 1, could get the liver transplant up in Wisconsin. But that person a few miles south of the border who needs the liver immediately, because he or she happens to live in Illinois, cannot get it. If an organ doesn't become available in that region in which he or she lives, that person may not survive. 
   There is a saying in the real estate industry by the real estate brokers and agents. When you go to them, they always tell you that everything and the value of your home depends on ``location, location, location.'' I bet not many Americans realize that in some cases if you are in need of a liver transplant or a heart transplant, your chances of survival are going to depend on your location, your location, your location. 
   The purpose of our bill is to try to open this system up, and instead of directing the organs to the people depending on where they live, instead of determining whether people are going to live or die simply based on accidents of geography, we try to bring sense to this whole system. We try to get organs to people in the most critical need of those organs as soon as possible. We would hope to get those to the sickest people as soon as possible--the sickest people who have the chance of going on and having a successful transplant. 
   There comes a point when your organs are so damaged and you are so sick that it could be that a transplant would no longer help you. Certainly, we have to be careful to make sure that we get the organs to those who are the sickest but who still have a good chance of surviving an organ transplant. 
   In addition, attempting to get the organs to the sickest patients first, making that our Nation's public policy, we would like to encourage a broader sharing of organs. 
   The Institute of Medicine's report suggested that each of these areas should contain at least 9 million people. That is the minimum level for optimal sharing to get the organs out and save the most lives. 
   We want to make sure we broaden these networks. 
   It isn't possible in all cases for all organs to be shared nationally. With the heart, for example, a heart cannot last much more than 4 hours after it has been given by a donor. It has to be transplanted quickly. Other organs, such as kidneys, my understanding is we can preserve them for over 24 hours, or even longer, and in that circumstance it would be possible to have more nationwide sharing to get those organs allocated to the people who need them the most. 
   Another important provision of our legislation is to take a strong stand for the proposition that the private not-for-profit corporation that now runs the whole Nation's organ procurement and transplant network should have some public accountability. Members may have heard that a bill passed by the House of Representatives provides no public accountability for this private corporation that has life or death control over at least 68,000 Americans. There is no accountability in that bill. They wouldn't be accountable to elected officials. They could not be regulated by the Department of Health and Human Services. If people had a complaint with how that organization was being run, there would be little or no recourse. I guess you could knock on their doors at their corporate headquarters in Richmond, VA, and ask them to listen to you, but they wouldn't have to. They are private not-for-profit corporations with no responsibility to make sure the best public policy goals of this country are achieved. 
   I don't think that is right. I think we want this corporation to be publicly accountable to make sure that it is meeting the objectives of the laws that are on the books and serving the public interest. 
   In addition, the Organ Transplantation Fairness Act of 2000 would create a national organ transplant advisory board. It implements the recommendations of the Institute of Medicine in this regard by creating an advisory board that reviews the organ procurement and transplantation network policies and advises the Secretary of our Department of Health and Human Services. 
   We also put in place a process, based on sound medical criteria, for the certification and recertification of what they call OPOs--organ procurement organizations. It requires the OPOs that fail to meet performance criteria to file a corrected plan, and they will have 3 years to implement such a plan. We have to have a way of making sure the organ procurement organizations in this country are doing a good, professional job. There has to be some accountability of those organizations. 
   One of the most important issues, of course, is encouraging more organ donations. Earlier this morning I had the opportunity to meet in my office with several individuals who had actually been the recipients of donated organs. Those transplants they had had saved  their lives. One of them was a constituent of mine. His name was Kent Schlink from Peoria, IL. When Kent was in his late twenties, he had to have a heart transplant to correct a defect he had in his heart dating from his early childhood. He was very sick. He was on the waiting list for quite some time. He ultimately had a heart transplant at St. Francis Hospital in Peoria, IL, that saved his life. His life was saved at a time when he had a 6-month-old child. He has gone on to have another child. To see him talk about the joy to be with his young kids drives home what a gift people who donate organs make--a gift of life. 
   We also had the opportunity to meet in my office with Britney Green, a young girl whom I believe is 13 years old. She had a liver transplant when she was 3 years old. She is currently on a waiting list for a new heart. She has had a very tough road to hoe, but she is a bright and cheerful young lady. She is very supportive and hopes we can improve the system in this country. 
   Finally, I wish to mention one other young man who impressed me. His name is Danny Canal. Danny is 14 years old, and he is an incredibly bright, wonderful young man. He is a transplant 
   recipient who actually had a four-organ transplant, if you can believe that. Not only did he have four organs transplanted, he actually had two sets of those organs before the third set began functioning properly. This wonderful young kid who has been saved by these organ transplants probably wouldn't have had to have so many organs transplanted into him, because he originally only needed a transplant of a small intestine. Unfortunately, it took so long, he was on the waiting list for the transplant of that intestine so long that his other organs started to fail, to the point where he had to have his pancreas and other organs replaced. Then there were problems and it took three times before they got that right. He is a wonderful young man. It was a very moving experience to hear his story. 
   We need to encourage more people to donate organs so there can be more Danny Covals and Kent Schlinks and Britney Greens whose lives can be saved in this country. Our bill does a lot to address that. We seek to establish a grant program to assist organ procurement organizations and other not-for-profit organizations in developing and expanding programs aimed at increasing organ donation rates. 
   We create a congressional donor medal to honor living organ donors and organ donor families, and give credit to the tremendous gift they are giving by giving an organ. We establish a system of support for State programs to increase organ donation, and we provide some financial support to pay for nonmedical travel expenses of living donors. 
   We have long had a transplant policy in this country that it was against public policy, against the law to pay people for donating organs. That creates many medical and ethical issues. I agree with that prohibition against paying people for donating organs. Everybody who does it is doing it just for the internal reward of helping somebody else. They are not doing it for any financial gain. However, I think it is appropriate that we could at least help defray some of the nonmedical travel expenses of the living donors. Most health insurance policies do, in fact, now in this country cover the medical expenses associated with donating the organ. 
   The bill also bans lobbying by the organ procurement and transplant network administrator. That is the private not-for-profit corporation in Richmond, VA. We prohibit that firm which administers the program under contract with the Department of Health and Human Services from using fees that it collects from transplant patients to lobby Members of Congress. That firm is collecting, I believe, $375 from every person who is on an organ donor waiting list in the country. We want to make sure those fees are helping to match organs with patients so that more people can be saved. 
   We do not think they need to be using those funds to lobby Members of Congress. 
   Finally, one of the things the bill does is it actually comes in and abolishes State laws that are on the books in several States that are referred to as organ hoarding laws. Several States now, I regret to say, have enacted laws saying organs donated within their State borders cannot be given to people outside of their States. One of those States is the State of Wisconsin, that borders on my State of Illinois. 
   I love Wisconsin. I think it is one of the most beautiful States in our country. Every summer my family and I go up and we vacation in northern Wisconsin. We enjoy their fishing and beautiful forests and the wildlife there. But I disagree with the law they have on the books that says if somebody in Wisconsin donates an organ, it cannot save a life in Illinois. I know Walter Payton, if he could have had an organ donated from a Green Bay Packer fan, would have gladly accepted it. 
   We do not need to be engaging in the Balkanization of our country. We do not need to have these kinds of barriers erected between States. We are, in the end, one nation, one giant state. This Balkanization has no place in our country. A report from the Institute of Medicine and other reports have indicated the statutes on the books in these several States greatly diminish the effectiveness and equity of a national organ transplant policy. We need to make sure that is no longer allowed. 
   The other thing I point out is many of the people from Wisconsin may come down and get listed on a transplant list at a hospital in Chicago. Then the effect of that law, passed by the Wisconsin legislature, would be to deny their own resident of the State of Wisconsin the ability to get the transplant at maybe a very renowned hospital in Chicago, or even one they go to in New York or another big State. That is inappropriate. It is not good public policy. Our bill would very firmly say that those laws would no longer be allowed in the States, and I think we would be on our way toward developing a much better national policy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I have amendment No. 2961 at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, this is a sense-of-the-Senate amendment which provides that in the event it is determined we have spent any of the Social Security trust fund moneys on any other program, we will provide for a sequestration law that will cause across-the-board cuts to ensure that we are not dipping into Social Security for any other purpose. 
   There are 25 cosponsors of this amendment. In my judgment, it is a more effective way than any of the other ways we have talked about, with points of order and the like, to assure that Congress and Washington are not plundering the Nation's Social Security trust fund. 
   Congress has passed laws that prohibit private employers from dipping into their employees' pension funds. We even passed laws that prohibit State and local governments from dipping into their employees' pension funds for any other purpose. Yet we have no law on the books that ensures we will not spend Social Security money on other programs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I wish to speak for a couple of moments about our guest Chaplain, Bishop Roger Kaffer from Joliet, IL, who just gave the opening prayer. 
   Bishop Kaffer is an old friend of my family. In fact, he went to grade school and to high school with my mother back in Joliet, IL--St. Raymond's grade school and Joliet Township high school. He is now the Auxiliary Bishop in the Joliet diocese outside of Chicago, IL. 
   I thank him for his prayer and welcome him to the Senate. We very much appreciate it. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Con. Res. 94, the adjournment resolution, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation called the ``MTBE Elimination Act of 2000.'' As I so rise, I thank my colleagues who have cosponsored this legislation. They are Senators BAYH, ABRAHAM, KOHL, GRASSLEY, DURBIN, BROWNBACK, and GRAMS. I appreciate their support and I look forward to talking to each of my colleagues about this very important piece of legislation we are introducing today. 
   Mr. President, the MTBE Elimination Act would ban all across the country, the chemical compound which is termed MTBE for short. Its longer chemical name is methyl tertiary butyl ether. 
   MTBE is one of the world's most widely used chemicals, and is found anywhere in the United States. In fact, it is added to approximately 30 percent of our Nation's gasoline supplies. Its use in this country dates back at least to about 1979 and was originally added to gasoline to boost the octane. For many years, oil companies had added lead to fuel in order to improve its performance and to boost octane. The Federal Government banned lead in the 1970s, and ultimately it was replaced in many cases by MTBE. 
   Later on, in 1990, Congress amended the Clean Air Act and President Bush at the time signed those amendments. Those amendments required all the smog filled large cities in this country to have an additive in their gasoline that would make the gasoline approximately 2.7 percent oxygen by weight. This is commonly referred to as the oxygenate requirement in our Nation's Clean Air Act. 
   The purpose of that oxygenate requirement was to make the oil companies produce, and our cars use, a cleaner burning fuel. The idea was to clean up the smog in some of our Nation's largest and most congested cities. That program has worked very well over the last 10 years in cleaning up the smog all across the country, in cities like New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. My home State of Illinois, of course, has a large metropolitan area in Chicago. The reformulated fuel requirements that were implemented by the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act have helped greatly in reducing the emissions from our automobiles, in providing cleaner burning fuels, at least as far as our air quality is concerned. 
   As I said earlier, about 30 percent of the gasoline used in this country is reformulated and has an additive in it, most of which is MTBE. In the parts of this country that are required to use reformulated fuel, over 80 percent of them are using MTBE as their oxygenate. The other areas are using another oxygenate known as ethanol to meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act. In fact, Chicago and Milwaukee both use ethanol as opposed to MTBE. 
   It turns out now that we have mounting evidence that MTBE, while it works well in cleaning up smog, has a problem we had not anticipated, and one which very regrettably had not been fully investigated before we started down the path that encouraged a dramatic increase in the usage of MTBE. MTBE has, in recent years, been detected in the nation's drinking water all across the country, from the east coast to the west coast. In fact, right now the U.S. Geological Survey is performing an ongoing evaluation of our nation's drinking water, groundwater supplies all across the country. They have not yet completed this survey. If you look at this chart, in the States that are in white, the U.S. Geological Survey analysis has not yet been performed. 
   But in the States that are in red, those are the States where they have found MTBE in the groundwater. Incidentally, I believe it is somewhere in the neighborhood of 22 States where  they have found methyl tertiary butyl ether in the groundwater. 
   In my home State of Illinois, we do not use much MTBE; ethanol is the oxygenate of choice. But nonetheless, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency has been finding MTBE in our groundwater. So far, they have found MTBE in at least 25 different cities all across the State, and many Illinois municipalities have not tested the groundwater. Three of these cities have had to switch their source of drinking water and go to other wells because there was a sufficient amount of MTBE in that water to make it undrinkable. 
   About a month ago, CBS News, in their program ``60 Minutes,'' did a report on how MTBE has been turning up with greater and greater frequency in our Nation's drinking water supplies. During that report, which seemed to me to be very well researched, it was noticed that this chemical, MTBE, has some very interesting properties. 
   Unlike most of the other components of gasoline which, when it leaks out accidentally from underground storage tanks or out of pipes which carry fuel--there are leaks now and then; we try to prevent them, but they do occur--most of the components of gasoline are absorbed in the soil and do not make it down to the ground water. 
   MTBE is a pesky substance, however, that resists microbial degrading in the ground and rapidly seeks out the ground water. It resists degrading as it finds its way to the water. Then once it gets into the water, it rapidly spreads. It has properties that, when it is in drinking water in very minute quantities, between 20 to 40 parts per billion, make the drinking water undrinkable. I say undrinkable because it makes the water smell and taste like turpentine. 
   There have been studies that have shown that a single cup of MTBE renders 5 million gallons of water undrinkable. I say it makes the water undrinkable. The fact is, we do not know exactly what health effects it has on humans who ingest the water. Very few studies have been done on what happens to humans who consume MTBE. There have been studies of laboratory rats that suggest it is a possible carcinogen, and the EPA has recognized MTBE as a possible cause of cancer. 
   We need to do more research on MTBE's effects on human health. We simply do not know all that much about this chemical. However, we do know that most people, when they smell the turpentine-like smell or taste of it, it inspires an instant revulsion and they do not want to drink the water. It is almost a moot point as to whether it has ill health effects because it makes the water undrinkable. Most humans will recoil at the thought of drinking that type of water. 
   In the ``60 Minutes'' segment I referred to earlier, they went to a town in California where literally most of the town has left because their water has this MTBE in it. Many of the businesses have closed up, many of the people have left, and for those remaining in that community, the State of California is trucking in fresh water for them to drink. It is a very serious problem. 
   There have been a few cities around the country--I believe there is one in the Carolinas, and also Santa Barbara, CA--where they had sued oil companies and won judgments to clean up the ground water in which they detected MTBE. 
   In order to address this alarming trend of finding this pesky, horrible chemical in our drinking water all across the country with increasing frequency, I, with my colleagues, am introducing the MTBE Elimination Act. This act will do four things: First, it will phase MTBE out gradually over 3 years. The way the bill accomplishes that is it amends the Toxic Substances Control Act to add methyl tertiary butyl ether to the list of proscribed toxic substances in this country. 
   It will eliminate the MTBE over 3 years because it will be hard to simply switch our Nation's gasoline supply overnight. To be realistic, it will take a period of time. The bill allows discretion for the EPA to establish a timetable and a framework for this MTBE phase-out. 
   Secondly, the bill will require that gasoline which is dispensed at the pump containing MTBE be labeled so people know when they are filling up their car with gasoline that it contains this additive, and this chemical is being used in their community. In many cases, of course, people are not even aware of this chemical. They have never heard of it. We were very surprised in Illinois. We did not think much MTBE was even used in Illinois. 
   Then we found it in our ground water. 
   Third, the bill authorizes grants for research on MTBE ground water contamination and remediation. It directs resources to do more research on the health effects of this chemical too. We need to know more about this chemical in order to combat it. Right now we do not fully understand the health risks. Most of the studies that have been done, of which I am aware, are on laboratory mice, and there have been very few studies, if any, on the effects to humans who ingest or inhale this chemical. 
   We also need research on how we remediate the chemical, how we clean it up because, in addition to all of its other properties, it turns out it is very difficult to eliminate. Our normal processes for eliminating hazardous chemicals from ground water, in many cases, according to the literature, do not seem to work on MTBE. EPA needs to research this issue and help the rest of the country have a body of knowledge, so when they find MTBE contamination, they know how to clean it up or remediate it. 
   The bill contains a section which expresses the sense of the Senate that the EPA, our national Environmental Protection Agency, should provide technical assistance, information, and matching funds to our local communities that are testing their underground water supplies and also trying to remediate and clean up MTBE that has been detected in those water supplies. 
   Finally, as an afterthought, some of my colleagues may be asking: What will we do about that portion of the Clean Air Act that requires our fuel in this country, at least in the smog-filled large cities, to have an oxygenate in it to reduce smog emissions? There is an answer. We do have an alternative--a renewable source produced from corn or other biomass products. It is called ethanol. 
   In my judgment, ethanol will allow us to meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act all across the country, and it will not require us to make that terrible choice between clean air and clean water. I want our country to have clean air and clean water and never one at the expense of the other. Ethanol, in my judgment, provides the answer to that problem. 
   The USDA recently did a study using ethanol to replace MTBE all across the country. It would mean, on average, about $1 billion in added income to our farmers every year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes. I thank the Senator and appreciate his support. I appreciate his cosponsorship of this legislation. 
   My bill would ban MTBE within 3 years after the enactment of this law. It would leave the exact timetable up to the EPA. They could set parameters within that 3 years. But within 3 years after the bill is signed into law, we would expect MTBE to be gone. 
   Following up on that, as Senator DURBIN said, we have been working very hard, particularly with Senator GRASSLEY, Senator HARKIN, and Senators from all over the country, in trying to clean up MTBE, and also trying  to promote renewable sources of fuels, such as ethanol. That discussion about the importance of renewable fuels is made much more important now as we see our dependence on foreign oil and the high prices of oil in recent weeks. 
   But this is an issue that has bipartisan support. Senator DURBIN is a Democrat; I am a Republican. But the ethanol issue has always been bipartisan. I look forward to working with my friends and colleagues on both sides of the aisle so that we can continue to work on improving our Nation's clean air and water and also our farm economy. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print the bill in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. The Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, today, I am introducing legislation that will help us fight one of the leading killers of America's children--the automobile collision. Car crashes account for 1 of every 3 deaths among children. 
   In the United States we lose an average of 7 of our children every day to car collisions. According to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, crash injuries are the leading cause of death for the 5 to 12 year old age group. Regrettably, up to half of the deaths involve children who already are buckled up or restrained in car seats and booster seats. 
   That is why I am introducing legislation to substantially improve the child safety seats that we buy to protect our children. My bill, ``The Child Passenger  Safety Act of 2000,'' would direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to improve the safety features of car seats, to upgrade the way we test and certify car seats, to consider adopting measures to better protect older children, and to give parents the information they need to shop for, and install, safe car seats for their children. 
   Over the years, NHTSA has implemented many measures to improve child passenger safety. I applaud, in particular, the NHTSA Administrator's recent efforts to implement a new tether requirement for child seat makers and automobile manufacturers. 
   But we cannot allow these past successes to obscure a fundamental fact: too many of our children are killed or injured in car crashes every day. We should not wait to begin upgrading the safety of child car seats and booster seats. 
   The first thing this bill seeks to do is to improve the testing of car seats and booster seats. It calls for the government to consider using more dummies that simulate children of many different ages in these tests. A six-month old has a very different build than an eighteen-month-old, and an eighteen-month-old is very different from a six-year old. In Europe, they use as many as six different child dummies in testing their car seats and booster seats, ranging in age from newborn to ten years. In this country, we do not crash test child safety seats with dummies that represent a premature infant, an eighteen-month-old or a ten-year-old. 
   Currently, we test car seats on a sled. My bill directs NHTSA to put car seats in some of the actual cars that already are being tested under an existing program. Under this program, called the ``New Car Assessment Program,'' the government buys 40 or so vehicles and crash tests them to see how each would perform in a collision in the real world. Why, Mr. President, could we not put at least one car seat or booster seat in each of these cars? Doing it would help us better understand how these safety seats perform in the real world. 
   In addition, my bill calls for the government to study ways to update the seat bench that is used in tests of child safety seats to better reflect the design of modern vehicles. The seat bench from a 1975 Chevy Impala with lap belts is what we now use to test car seats. 
   I am also asking the government to focus attention on how car seats and booster seats perform in rollover, rear-impact, and side-impact crashes, as they do in Europe. These types of crashes are not as common as frontal collisions, but they result in a number of injuries and deaths. Finally, my proposal calls upon NHTSA to increase the funds they spend on testing car seats each year to at least $750,000, from the current $500,000. 
   Second, we must deal with the problem of head injuries in side-impact crashes and rollovers. Children's heads and necks are even more vulnerable than those of adults, because children's heads are larger in proportion to the rest of their bodies. In Europe, car seats have side impact padding to better protect children's heads in these types of crashes. My bill would require car seat manufacturers in the U.S. to provide the same type of protection. 
   Third, we must focus more attention on an issue that auto safety advocates have dubbed ``the forgotten child'' problem. The ``forgotten children'' (ages 8-12) have outgrown their car seats but do not fit properly in adult seat belts. In crashes, they are at greater risk than other passengers. My bill calls for NHTSA to close this child safety seat gap, but it leaves it up to NHTSA to decide when and how to do that. The agency could, for example, encourage the states to pass more laws requiring the use of booster seats for older children. They could do it by mounting a public information campaign about the importance of booster seats. Or they could amend our safety standards for seat belts. 
   Fourth and finally, we must get more information to parents about the safety of various car seats on the market today, as well, Mr. President, as on the correct means of installing car seats. My bill directs NHTSA to institute a new crash test results information system that will help equip parents with the safety information and knowledge they need to make rational choices when they are buying and installing car seats for their children. My bill also requires that the warning labels on child seats be straightforward and written in plain English. 
   Next week is National Child Passenger Safety Week. What better time than now to make these efforts to protect our children? I urge my colleagues to support this vitally important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes as in morning business and that the time be charged to the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, later this afternoon a resolution sponsored by Senator DURBIN and I will be sent to the desk. That resolution expresses the sense of the Senate regarding its sorrow upon the passing yesterday of one of the Nation's leading radio personalities, Bob Collins from WGN Radio in Chicago. 
   Yesterday afternoon, Bob Collins, who was one of the Nation's leading radio personalities, who had a listening audience of over 600,000 people, after finishing his radio program, drove to his home in Lake County, IL, and decided to go out and fly his airplane. He apparently had a friend with him in that airplane. While that airplane was attempting to land at Waukegan Airport in Waukegan, IL, another small aircraft hit it. Ultimately, it drove Mr. Collins' plane into a building. It later was confirmed that he died as a result of the accident. It was a horrible tragedy. 
   In the last 24 hours, all of Chicago and many people throughout the Midwest have been mourning the death of Bob Collins. 
   Mr. Collins was a personal friend of mine, somebody I thought very highly of. It is with particular sadness that I rise upon this occasion of his untimely death. 
   Bob Collins was known affectionately to his Chicago audience as Uncle Bob. He had the main drive time-radio program at WGN Radio since 1986. He had by far the largest audience. In fact, his rating points for the last 10 years showed that his audience was twice the size of his next closest competitor. He was very much loved all around Chicago by people who for the past 13 or more years, every morning when they awoke, 
   heard on the radio the voice of Bob Collins. 
   His show ran from 5 a.m. until 9 a.m., and so hundreds of thousands of Chicagoans, as they were driving to work in the morning on congested expressways, would be listening to him day in and day out. 
   Some have described Bob Collins as the narrator of events in Chicago and in the Midwest over the past decade or more. He talked about everything from the local and national news to current political topics. In fact, he was a very devoted Republican in a very Democratic city. But notwithstanding his political views, he still had wide popularity. He had guests from all walks of life on his radio show every day. Senator DURBIN and I on at least one occasion were guests of Bob Collins on his radio show. 
   Bob did everything during his radio show. He would announce the weather. He would talk the whole 4 hours. He even read his own commercials. And being on from 5 in the morning until 9 in the morning and thinking about how you hold that audience's attention for that long of a time when you are talking is very difficult. It is even tougher to do it and remain interesting. But Bob was always interesting. Yet he didn't grate on people, and he retained and built his audience over the years. He really had a gift of talking. People enjoyed what he was saying and found him entertaining. 
   He never stooped to the methods we are seeing increasingly with the shock jocks, the rude and obnoxious talk radio we so often hear. 
   He never resorted to cheap tricks to maintain the interest of his audience. I think that is the reason people never tired of him and that he went on for years as a popular radio guy. 
   Bob was very folksy and unpretentious. In fact, he was the exact same person on the radio as he was off the radio. I saw him many times in relaxed, amicable circumstances, and he was just the same regular old Bob Collins who grew up in Lakeland, FL, who liked to ride motorcycles and fly airplanes, with a very sunny and cheerful personality at all times. He had a zest for life and always had a sunny disposition. On his show, he was always very polite and agreeable. Even when he disagreed with his guests, he was always very affable. 
   I want to read from a column that appeared this morning in the Chicago Tribune by Mary Schmich. She wrote about Mr. Collins' life. It is a wonderful article. I will read a couple of paragraphs about how she described Mr. Collins:  
   As a radio guy, he was both a master and a freak. In the age of screechers and squawkers and shock jocks, in a time that has elevated the obscenity to art and rewarded it with megabucks, Bob stayed Bob. 
   He earned his big bucks the old-fashioned way and still seemed as down-to-earth as the guy one row behind you in the bleachers. He was blunt but never crude, amusing but rarely rude, opinionated but not obnoxious. It was a formula that made him the most popular morning radio guy in one of the world's most cutthroat radio towns. He walloped the competition as easily as if he were sunbathing. 
   That's the mark of an artist--he makes the difficult look easy.  
   Uncle Bob, who for so many years in Chicago, to so many thousands of listeners around the Midwest, always  made the difficult look easy, I am going to miss you; we are all going to miss you. Thank you for all you have done for Chicago and for our community. May God comfort your wife Christine and your mother and father, and may God rest and keep your soul. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, today is the fifth day of the 26th annual Catholic Schools Week, and tomorrow, we will observe National Appreciation Day for Catholic School Teachers. I want to take this opportunity to recognize the 167,000 teachers in our nation's Catholic schools for their valuable contributions to the education of many of America's children. 
   There are over 2 million students enrolled in the nation's 8,217 Catholic elementary and secondary schools today. These schools are attractive to many parents because they combine an intellectually stimulating environment with an emphasis on the spiritual and moral development of their students. 
   Catholic school teachers are widely recognized for offering an excellent scholastic education, which may explain why 41 percent of these schools have a waiting list for admission. According to the National Catholic Educational Association, the student-teacher ratio in Catholic schools is 17 to 1, and the graduation rate of Catholic school students is an extraordinary 95 percent. Only 3 percent of Catholic high school students drop out of  school, and 83 percent of Catholic high school graduates go on to college, the Association has estimated. 
   But Catholic school teachers provide students with more than just a solid academic background. They encourage the spiritual and moral development of their students as well. 
   Catholic school teachers are educating an increasingly diverse group of students. Since 1970, the percentage of minorities enrolled in Catholic schools has more than doubled to 25 percent. More and more non-Catholic students are enrolling in Catholic schools: today, as many as 13 percent of Catholic school students are non-Catholic, according to the National Catholic Educational Association (compared to 2.7 percent in 1970). In some city schools, a majority of the students are non-Catholic. 
   This week, a delegation of over 100 Catholic school teachers, students, and parents are in Washington, D.C. to meet with Members of Congress. They hand-delivered information about Catholic schools to every congressional office yesterday, which was National Appreciation Day for Catholic Schools. I would like to close by welcoming these teachers, students, and parents to the Nation's Capitol, and by congratulating the Catholic schools across the country that received Excellence in Education Awards from the U.S. Department of Education.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, it is with great pride that I rise today with my distinguished colleagues to support the pending resolution and express my sincere congratulations to the Super Bowl XXXIV Champion St. Louis Rams. In the aftermath of a heart-stopping NFC division victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and an outstanding regular season record of 13 wins and 3 losses, the St. Louis Rams increased their intensity to win Super Bowl XXXIV, bringing home the most priced possession in the National Football League, the Lombardi Trophy. In an extraordinary effort and show of heart, the Rams countered the incredible second-half push by the Tennessee Titans in a game that more than lived up to its billing of ``Super'' and made history on Sunday, January 30, 2000, by pulling out a thrilling victory by the score of 23-16, becoming the Super Bowl XXXIV Champions. 
   This was Coach Dick Vermeil's third year as head coach of the Rams. Coach Vermeil previously led the Philadelphia Eagles to the Super Bowl in 1980, but had been away from coaching for almost 15 years. The passionate 63-year-old coach showed he still had the stuff it takes to lead this team of stars to the championship. The fans of professional football have appropriately awarded Coach Vermeil by voting him the Staples Coach of the Year, the only NFL honor determined solely by a vote of the fans. 
   The three-year path to glory began slowly, with 9 wins and 23 losses over the previous two seasons, including just 4 victories last season, but the team turned it around this year. While the Rams were truly a team that played well together all year, this triumphant season can be attributed to the performance of several key players, including six players that were chosen to start in the Pro Bowl. 
   Kurt Warner, stepping in as the starter after Trent Green was injured in an early preseason game, enjoyed one of the best years ever for an NFL quarterback, throwing for 4,353 yards, 41 touchdowns and only 13 interceptions, a performance worthy of being awarded the NFL's Most Valuable Player and the Pro Bowl starting quarterback. This remarkable individual, in just his second season in the NFL, was bagging groceries in Waterloo, Iowa, just five years ago. While setting passing and scoring records in the Arena Football League for 3 seasons and 1 season in the NFL Europe, he never gave up his dream of playing in the NFL. Last night, he helped to bring the dream of a Super Bowl championship home to St. Louis. 
   Marshall Faulk, one of the league's premier running backs, set an NFL record this season for combined rushing and receiving yards from the line of scrimmage in a single season with 2,429, in addition to scoring 12 touchdowns. He was also chosen to start in the Pro Bowl. 
   All season long, the team benefited from a stellar group of talented receivers, led by Isaac Bruce, who will join his teammates in the Pro Bowl; Torry Holt; Az-zahir Hakim; and Ricky Proehl. Proehl, you may remember, caught a clutch game-winning touchdown in the closing minutes of the Rams' win last week over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, while Bruce made a truly spectacular play in the fourth quarter of the Super Bowl by catching a 73 yard touchdown pass that sealed the championship. These stars helped the Rams to establish early on that they were an offensive-minded team, scoring a total of 526 points this season, the third-most in NFL history. 
   But as the saying goes, ``Defense wins championships,'' and the Rams proved this adage, by leading the NFL in rushing defense, and ranking sixth in the league in overall defense. This season, the Rams' defensive end, Kevin Carter, led the league with 17 quarterback sacks and earned his first start in the Pro Bowl. After only 5 years in the league, this outstanding defender has developed a well-documented work ethic that has helped him achieve more sacks over the past two seasons than anyone else in the league. 
   We all know that to be champions requires a strong commitment to work harder and be more disciplined than the rest. The Rams' Super Bowl win is a credit to the extraordinary efforts by the entire Rams' organization. After moving to St. Louis in 1995, the management went to work in hiring excellent personnel and a committed coaching staff. This season, the organization's slogan was aptly and accurately versed: ``Gotta go to work!'' With the whole organization working as one cohesive unit and regularly working well beyond the hours of 9 to 5, they showed us just how much can be accomplished when everyone works together for a common goal and is committed to doing more than his or her fair share. 
   We would be remiss if we overlooked another admirable quality of this fine organization, and that is the commitment to the community. When the Rams relocated to St. Louis in 1995, the team identified community involvement as one of the top priorities. Since that time, many charitable organizations have benefited from the time and resources of these big-hearted athletes, as various Rams players have dedicated dollars for every touchdown, interception, field goal, sack and more. Some examples of how these stars contribute to the community include: 
   1. The defense live--donating $500 for every quarterback sack to a local homeless shelter. 
   2. Wide receive Isaac Bruce--donating $500 for every touchdown to Edgewood's Childhaven, an educational center for children with learning disabilities. 
   3. Running back Marshall Faulk--continuing the ``Marshall Plan'' that began in Indianapolis by donating $2,000 for every touchdown that he scores to the Marshall Faulk Foundation. 
   4. Quarterback Trent Green--donating $300 for every Rams passing touchdown to the Trent Green Family Foundation. 
   5. Safety Keith Syle--donating $500 for every interception to local literacy programs. 
   6. Kicker Jeff Wilkins--donating $50 for every field goal to Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital. 
   7. Tight end Roland Williams--donating $86 for every catch to the Roland Williams Youth Life Line Foundation which supports children in Roland's hometown. 
   Most of these players have also been successful in receiving matching commitments from local businesses and individuals, helping to foster a true sense of community. In addition, each year, players make countless appearances at local schools, hospitals and youth centers to use their influence with children to stress the importance of education and making proper choices in life. 
   The hard work and dedication of the Rams to their team and the people of the St. Louis metropolitan area deserves our highest commendations. So, on behalf of myself and the good people of my state of Illinois, I congratulate Coach Dick Vermeil, Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Kurt Warner, Marshall Faulk, Isaac Bruce, and the entire St. Louis Rams team on an outstanding performance. 
   Coach Vermeil, players, and fans: congratulations on a great season and an outstanding victory.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-20000131</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Madam President, it is with great pride that I rise today with my distinguished colleagues to express my sincere congratulations to the Super Bowl XXXIV Champion St. Louis Rams. In the aftermath of a heart-stopping NFC division victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and an outstanding regular season record of 13 wins and 3 losses, the St. Louis Rams increased their intensity to win Super Bowl XXXIV, bringing home the most prized possession in the National Football League, the Lombardi Trophy. In an extraordinary effort and show of heart, the Rams countered the incredible second-half push by the Tennessee Titans in a game that more than lived up to its billing of ``Super'' and made history on Sunday, January 30, 2000, by pulling out a thrilling victory by the score of 23-16, becoming the Super Bowl XXXIV Champions. 
   This was Coach Dick Vermeil's third year as head coach of the Rams. Coach Vermeil previously led the Philadelphia Eagles to the Super Bowl in 1980, but had been away from coaching for almost 15 years. The passionate 63 year old coach showed he still had the stuff it takes to lead this team of stars to the championship. The fans of professional football have appropriately awarded Coach Vermeil by voting him the Staples Coach of the Year, the only NFL honor determined solely by a vote of the fans. 
   The three-year path to glory began slowly, with 9 wins and 23 losses over the previous two seasons, including just 4 victories last season, but the team turned it around this year. While the Rams were truly a team that played well together all year, this triumphant season can be attributed to the performance of several key players, including six players that were chosen to start in the Pro Bowl. 
   Kurt Warner, stepping in as the starter after Trent Green was injured in an early preseason game, enjoyed one of the best years ever for an NFL quarterback, throwing for 4,353 yards, 41 touchdowns and only 13 interceptions, a performance worthy of being awarded the NFL's Most Valuable Player and the Pro Bowl starting quarterback. This remarkable individual, in just his second season in the NFL, was  bagging groceries in Waterloo, Iowa, just five years ago. While setting passing and scoring records in the Arena Football League for 3 seasons and one season in the NFL Europe, he never gave up his dream of playing in the NFL. Last night, he helped to bring the dream of a Super Bowl championship home to St. Louis. 
   Marshall Faulk, one of the league's premier running backs, set an NFL record this season for combined rushing and receiving yards from the line of scrimmage in a single season with 2,429, in addition to scoring 12 touchdowns. He was also chosen to start in the Pro Bowl. 
   All season long, the team benefitted from a stellar group of talented receivers, led by Isaac Bruce, who will join his teammates in the Pro Bowl; Torry Holt; Az-zahir Hakim; and Ricky Proehl. Proehl, you may remember, caught a clutch game-winning touchdown in the closing minutes of the Rams' win last week over the Tampa Bay Buccanneers, while Bruce made a truly spectacular play in the fourth-quarter of the Super Bowl by catching a 73 yard touchdown pass that sealed the championship. These stars helped the Rams to establish early on that they were an offensive-minded team, scoring a total of 526 points this season, the third-most in NFL history. 
   But as the saying goes, ``Defense wins championships,'' and the Rams proved this adage, by leading the NFL in rushing defense, and ranking sixth in the league in overall defense. This season, the Rams' defensive end, Kevin Carter, led the league with 17 quarterback sacks and earned his first start in the Pro Bowl. After only 5 years in the league, this outstanding defender has developed a well-documented work ethic that has helped him achieve more sacks over the past two seasons than anyone else in the league. 
   We all know that to be champions requires a strong commitment to work harder and be more disciplined than the rest. The Rams' Super Bowl win is a credit to the extraordinary efforts by the entire Rams' organization. After moving to St. Louis in 1995, the management went to work in hiring excellent personnel and a committed coaching staff. This season, the organization's slogan was aptly and accurately versed: ``Gotta go to work!'' With the whole organization working as one cohesive unit and regularly working well beyond the hours of 9 to 5, they showed us just how much can be accomplished when everyone works together for a common goal and is committed to doing more than his or her fair share. 
   We would be remiss if we overlooked another admirable quality of this fine organization, and that is the commitment to the community. When the Rams relocated to St. Louis in 1995, the team identified community involvement as one of the top priorities. Since that time, many charitable organizations have benefitted from the time and resources of these big-hearted athletes, as various Rams players have dedicated 
   dollars for every touchdown, interception, field goal, sack and more. Some examples of how these stars contribute to the community include: 
   1. The defensive line--donating $500 for every quarterback sack to a local homeless shelter. 
   2. Wide receiver Isaac Bruce--donating $500 for every touchdown to Edgewood's Childhaven, an educational center for children with learning disabilities. 
   3. Running back Marshall Faulk--continuing the ``Marshall Plan'' that began in Indianapolis by donating $2,000 for every touchdown that he scores to the Marshall Faulk Foundation. 
   4. Quarterback Trent Green--donating $300 for every Rams passing touchdown to the Trent Green Family Foundation. 
   5. Safety Keith Lyle--donating $500 for every interception to local literacy programs. 
   6. Kicker Jeff Wilkins--donating $50 for every field goal to Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital. 
   7. Tight end Roland Williams--donating $86 for every catch to the Roland Williams Youth Life Line Foundation which supports children in Roland's hometown. 
   Most of these players have also been successful in receiving matching commitments from local businesses and individuals, helping to foster a true sense of community. In addition, each year, players make countless appearances at local schools, hospitals and youth centers to use their influence with children to stress the importance of education and making proper choices in life. 
   The hard work and dedication of the Rams to their team and the people of the St. Louis metropolitan area deserves our highest commendations. So, on behalf of myself and the good people of my state of Illinois, I congratulate Coach Dick Vermeil, Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Kurt Warner, Marshall Faulk, Issac Bruce, and the entire St. Louis Rams team on an outstanding performance. 
   Coach Vermeil, players, and fans: congratulations on a great season and an outstanding victory. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the passage of the Electronic Benefit Transfer Interoperability and Portability Act of 1999. This legislation addreses the problem of food stamp beneficiaries being unable to redeem their benefits in authorized stores that may be located outside their state of residence. 
   As you may know, Congress passed legislation in 1996 that required the federal government to deliver food stamp benefits electronically, rather than using paper coupons. Most states have started the process of issuing plastic cards, very similar to ATM cards, to access these benefits. The federal government termed this new process, electronic benefits transfer (EBT). 
   You may have noticed a separate button on the payment terminal in your local supermarket with the designation ``EBT'' or a separate stand-along payment terminal to handle these new transactions. 
   More than half of the country has already switched from the paper coupons  to this new EBT card. However, one significant issue is causing problems in the program for retailers, states, and recipients. That issue is the inability of recipients to use their state-issued cards across state lines. This is especially true in communities that are near a state border. 
   Under the old paper system, recipients could use the coupons in any state in the country. Under the new electronic system, that is the case Customers go into a food store expecting to use their federal benefits to purchase food. When they cannot use their EBT cards, they become frustrated and dissatisfied with the food stamp program. 
   For example, under the old system, a food stamp recipient living in Palmyra, Missouri could use his food stamp coupons in his favorite grocery store in Quincy, Illinois, just over the border. Similarly, a recipient living in Illinois could visit family in Tennessee and still purchase food for his children. Food stamp beneficiaries are not unlike the average shopper. Cross-border shopping occurs for a variety of reasons. One reason is convenience; another equally important reason is the cost of groceries. The supermarket industry is very competitive. Customers paying with every type of tender except EBT have the ability to shop around for the best prices. Shouldn't recipients of our nation's federal food assistance benefits be able to stretch their dollars without regard to state borders? 
   Another reason for cross-border shopping is convenience. While one of my constituents may live in the metro east area of Illinois, he or she may work in St. Louis. Under the current situation, if the only grocery store between work and home is in Missouri, the recipient cannot purchase food without traveling miles out of the way. 
   The legislation would once again provide for the portability of food assistance benefits and allow food stamp recipients the flexibility of shopping at locations that they choose. 
   Interoperability works well today with ATM/Debit cards, the type of cards that EBT was modeled after. Consumers and merchants are confident that when a MAC card issued by a bank in Pittsburgh is presented, authorization and settlement of that transaction will work the same as when a Star card, issued by Bank of America in California is presented. This occurs regardless of where the merchant is located. 
   Unfortunately, this is currently not the case with EBT cards. If every state operated their EBT program under a standard set of operating rules, as this legislation requires, companies operating in multiple states could be more efficient, resolve any discrepancies in customer accounts more quickly, and ultimately hold down the price of groceries for all consumers. 
   This legislation is more about good government than it is about food stamps. Since 1996, the transition from paper coupons to electronic benefit transfers has saved the federal government a significant amount of money. For example, while the food stamp caseload decreased 24 percent from fiscal year 1995 to 1998, food stamp production and redemption costs dropped by an impressive 39 percent. While it is estimated that the bill's implementation will cost the federal government no more than $500,000 annually, it will save at least $20 million per year when paper coupons are a thing of the past. 
   This legislation is sound public policy that enjoys strong bipartisan support. I thank my colleagues, Senators LEAHY, LUGAR, HARKIN, CRAIG, COCHRAN, CRAPO, KOHL, and KERREY for joining me as co-sponsors of this bill. This legislation is vitally important to every food stamp recipient, every state food stamp program administrator, and every grocery store in the country. 
   I thank the presiding officer, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate is prepared to pass the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission Act of 1999. The year 2009 is the 200th anniversary of President Lincoln's birth, and this measure would establish a commission to study and recommend to the Congress activities that are appropriate to celebrate that anniversary. 
   It is most fitting that we make these arrangements to honor Abraham Lincoln, one of our nation's wisest and most courageous former Presidents, on the bicentennial of his birth. The son of a Kentucky frontiersman, Abraham Lincoln was born on February 12, 1809 in a log cabin. From these humble beginnings, he went on to become the sixteenth President of the United States. Today, he is perhaps best remembered for leading the Union through a turbulent Civil War and for issuing the Emancipation Proclamation, which freed the nation's slaves. 
   Few people have a greater appreciation for President Lincoln than the residents of my home state of Illinois. President Lincoln spent about eight years in the Illinois State Legislature, and he also represented Illinois in the U.S. House of Representatives for a term. The only home that Abraham Lincoln owned is located in Springfield, Illinois. Today, people from all parts of the United States travel to Springfield to see Abraham Lincoln's family home, tour the Old State Capital where Mr. Lincoln said ``a house divided cannot stand,'' and visit his final resting place in Springfield's Oak Ridge Cemetery. 
   The Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission Act, which originated in the House of Representatives, provides for the establishment of a national commission to recommend ``fitting and proper'' activities to celebrate the bicentennial of Lincoln's birth. The commission would be composed of fifteen members, including at least one person appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Governor of Illinois. 
   Congress created a similar commission in anticipation of the centennial of Lincoln's birth in 1909. That year, this country celebrated President Lincoln's birthday in a big way: Lincoln's image appeared on a postage stamp, his birthday became a national holiday, Congress passed legislation which led to the Lincoln Memorial's construction, and the White House approved the minting of a Lincoln penny. It is appropriate that we again prepare for the anniversary of his birth by passing this measure to establish the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. 
   I close by noting that the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission Act of 1999 has tremendous support in both chambers of Congress. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 411 to 2 last month. The Senate version is the product of cooperation among Senators HATCH, LEAHY, DURBIN and me. I also commend Judiciary Chairman HATCH, ranking member LEAHY, and their staffs for their efforts to help pass this important bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I submit this statement in opposition to the nomination of former Senator Carol Moseley-Bruan as Ambassador of the United States to the governments of New Zealand and Samoa. The people of Illinois are intimately familiar with Senator Moseley-Braun's public career, as am I. Based on my extensive knowledge of her record, I cannot in good conscience support her nomination. While her tenure involved a significant number of controversies, many of which are troubling, her secret visits to, and relations with, the late General Sani Abacha and his regime are themselves a disqualifier for any kind of position that involves representing the United States in a foreign land. They demonstrate a lack of judgment and discretion that should be required of any ambassadorial nominee. 
   According to her written responses provided to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on November 6, 1999, the Senator traveled to Nigeria in December, 1992; July, 1995; and August, 1996. According to the same documents, Senator Moseley-Braun met with Sani Abacha during all three trips. Abacha was one of the world's most brutal and corrupt dictators, an international pariah, widely reviled. After taking power in 1993, he jailed Nigeria's elected president, reportedly imprisoned as many as 7,000 political opponents, hanged environmentalist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other activists and allegedly stole more than $1 billion in oil revenues while presiding over the nation's economic collapse. 
   During her appearance before the East Asian and Pacific Affairs subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Moseley-Braun likened her meetings with General Abacha to meetings between other Senators and Members of Congress with leaders of countries accused of violating human rights. This analogy is inappropriate; her visits were of a chilling and distinctly different nature. Senator Moseley-Braun's visits with Abacha were secret encounters, condemned by the U.S. State Department, hidden not just from the government but even from her own staff. Moreover, her former fiance, Mr. Kgosie Matthews, was at one time a registered agent for the Nigerian government. Mr. Matthews accompanied her to Nigeria, although it is not clear how many times he did so. In response to written questions, Senator Moseley-Braun stated that she was ``unaware of whether.......Mr. Matthews `directly or indirectly received any money or anything of monetary value' from the Nigerian government.'' To secretly visit a corrupt despot like Abacha, remaining unaware of whether a fiance, a one-time agent of the regime, is profiting in any way from Abacha or the Nigerian government, demonstrates a profound lack of judgment. 
   The confirmation hearing briefly touched upon areas of concern other than Senator Moseley-Braun's relations with Abacha. During her tenure, the Internal Revenue Service requested a grand jury investigation of Senator Moseley-Braun, suggesting a number of areas of inquiry. In her written responses to questions posed by the Foreign Relations Committee, the nominee stated that ``I was unaware that I was the subject of any criminal investigation by the Internal Revenue Service prior to the July, 1998 WBBM report.'' 
   The WBBM-TV report, to which Senator Moseley-Braun referred, disclosed that the IRS twice sought to convene a grand jury to explore allegations concerning the personal use of campaign funds as well as allegations relating to ``possible bank fraud, bribery and other federal crimes.'' The committee record established that the Department of 
   Justice rejected the requests for grand juries, citing a lack of sufficient evidence, thus halting the ability of the IRS to proceed with the very subpoena power necessary to acquire sufficient evidence. The circularity of this process--the IRS requests for grand juries and Department of Justice refusals--as well as the inability of these concerns to be probed to conclusion, leaves a host of unanswered questions. These questions should have been resolved prior to a vote on the confirmation. 
   Senator Moseley-Braun refers to an FEC audit report that she believes rebuts the IRS concerns. First, assuming for the sake of argument that the FEC audit refutes the personal use of campaign funds, it nevertheless clearly does not refute the other allegations reportedly raised by the IRS such as ``possible bank fraud, bribery and other federal crimes'' reportedly going back to her tenure as Cook County Recorder of Deeds. 
   Second, it is unclear to what extent the FEC investigated the personal use of campaign funds. There are countless ways a diversion of campaign funds for personal use could occur. Discussion in the confirmation hearing centered around just campaign credit cards. Section I. D. of the FEC audit report does not mention the diversion of campaign funds as being within the scope of the audit, but instead lists, in specific detail, eight other areas of inquiry. On the other hand, the last page of the audit report indicates that the FEC audited the activity of the campaign credit cards. FEC working papers provided to the Senate further indicate that the FEC found that the cards were used to pay $6,258.14 of Mr. Matthews' personal expenses, but that, after deducting sums which the campaign argued it owed him, these personal expenses totaled only $311.28. It is unclear whether the FEC probed the possible diversion of campaign funds by other, less blunt, more oblique means, such as by cash purchases or by cashier's checks purchased with cash, or by other mechanisms. To the best of our knowledge, major allegations of diversion, such as those discussed in the Dateline NBC report, did not arise until after the FEC audit was completed. 
   Third, the FEC itself pointedly said that no inferences should be drawn  from its failure to resolve its examination of Senator Moseley-Braun's campaign fund. According to a Chicago Tribune article dated April 8, 1997, FEC spokeswoman Sharon Snyder mentioned ``a lack of manpower, a lack of time'' and cited the impending expiration of the statute of limitations. She went on to say: ``There's no statement here: no exoneration, no Good Housekeeping seal of approval, just no action.'' 
   Thus, with respect to the FEC investigation, as with the IRS requests for grand juries, many questions remain unresolved. However, the visits with General Sani Abacha are undisputed and, in their context, they are so unusual and bizarre as to alone disqualify her as an ambassador. 
   Mr. President, I recognize the Senate must fulfill its constitutional obligation. This body has given Senator Carol Moseley-Braun a select responsibility. While I cannot in good conscience support her nomination, I wish her well in her new post. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to urge passage of S. 777, the Freedom to E-File Act. I appreciate Agriculture Secretary Glickman, Agriculture Committee Chairman LUGAR and my other Colleagues on the Agriculture Committee for their hard work in helping craft the consensus substitute amendment being offered on the floor today. This legislation will streamline the process our farmers follow when filing paper work with the Department of Agriculture (USDA). Currently, when farmers are required to fill out USDA paper work, they are required to travel to their local USDA county offices, complete the paper work, wait in long lines and file these documents in paper form. This process is very inefficient and time consuming. 
   This bill simply requires USDA to develop a system for farmers to access and file this information over the internet. The ``Freedom to E-file Act'' simply makes good common sense. As our society has become more technologically advanced so have our farmers. In fact, a 1998 Novartis survey found that over 72 percent of all farmers with 500 acres or more had personal computers. Overall, over fifty percent of all farmers surveyed had computers.  
   According to a Farm Journal study entitled, ``AgWeb 1999: Internet and e-Commerce in Production Agriculture,'' farmer internet usage will have more than doubled by the end of 1999 compared to 1997. The author concluded, ``the computer and the internet have become just as important to farmers as the tractor and good weather.'' The bill we pass today clearly recognizes this reality. The study also notes that over two-thirds of all commercial farmers own at least one computer and these farmers spend at least two hours per week on average utilizing the internet for agricultural purposes. 
   Our agriculturists use computers not only for financial management and market information but for sophisticated precision agriculture management systems. These sophisticated small business owners could easily file necessary farm program paperwork from their homes and offices if only this option was available. 
   Farmers are often frustrated with the long lines at county USDA offices, especially during their most hectic times such as harvest season. Our nation's farmers are clearly overburdened by government-mandated paperwork. This bill is the first step in the right direction toward regulatory reform for our U.S. food producers. 
   The Freedom to E-File Act has been popular among agricultural groups and within the United States Senate. The American Farm Bureau Federation, our nation's largest farm organization, stated that while S. 777 is a simple bill, ``the impact it will have on farmers and ranchers should be immense.'' The bill has approximately twenty bipartisan co-sponsors, including Agriculture Committee Chairman LUGAR and Minority Leader DASCHLE. The Secretary of Agriculture also supports the Freedom to E-File Act. 
   I commend my colleague, Congressman RAY LAHOOD, for championing the companion to this bill in the House of Representatives. I hope that the House will pass this important legislation prior to the end of this session, and look forward to the President's signature. I thank the presiding officer and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991102</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to express my sadness at the news of the death of one of football's greatest stars ever, Chicago's own Walter Payton. 
   Walter Payton was a hero, a leader, and a role model both on and off the field. For 13 years, he thrilled Chicago Bears' fans as the NFL's all-time leading rusher--perhaps one of the greatest running backs ever to play the game of football. After retiring from professional football in 1987, Payton continued to touch the lives of Chicagoans as an entrepreneur and a community leader. 
   Walter Payton's historic career began at Jackson State University, where he set a college football record for points scored. The first choice in the 1975 NFL draft, Payton--or ``Sweetness'' as he was known to Chicago Bears fans--became the NFL's all-time leader in running and in combined net yards and scored 110 touchdowns during his career with the Bears. He made the Pro Bowl nine times and was named the league's Most Valuable Player twice, in 1977 and 1985. In 1977, Payton rushed for a career-high 1,852 yards and carried the Bears to the playoffs for the first time since 1963. He broke Jim Brown's long-standing record in 1984 to become the league's all-time leading rusher, and finished his career with a record 16,726 total rushing yards. In 1985-86, Walter Payton led the Bears to an unforgettable 15-1 season and Super Bowl victory--the first and only Super Bowl win in Bears' history. Walter Payton was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1993, and was selected this year as the Greatest All-Time NFL Player by more than 200 players from the NFL Draft Class of 1999. 
   More important, Walter Payton matched his accomplishments on the football field with his selfless actions off the field on behalf of those in need. He earned a degree in special education from Jackson State University and worked throughout his adult life to improve the lives of children. In 1988, he  established the Halas/Payton Foundation to help educate Chicago's youth. 
   Walter Payton was truly an American hero in every sense of the term. He died tragically at age 45, but his legacy will live in our hearts and minds forever. Today, Mr. President, Illinois mourns. Sweetness, we will miss you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask consent the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 213, submitted earlier by Senators LOTT and DASCHLE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that with respect to the time controlled by the Democratic leader on the D.C./Labor appropriations conference report, the 15 minutes be allocated as follows: 5 minutes each for Senators DURBIN, HARKIN, and LAUTENBERG. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, November 2. I further ask consent that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of the conference report to accompany the D.C./Labor-HHS appropriations bill under the previous time agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Further, I ask consent the Senate stand in recess from the hours of 12:30 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. for the weekly policy conferences to meet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I further ask consent that with respect to the African trade/CBI bill, Senators have until 10 a.m. to file second-degree amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. For the information of all Senators, at 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, the Senate will immediately begin 30 minutes of debate on the conference report to accompany the D.C./Labor-HHS appropriations bill. Following the debate, the Senate will proceed to a vote on the conference report which will be followed by possibly two cloture votes in relation to the African trade bill. Therefore, Senators can anticipate up to three stacked votes at approximately 10 a.m. It is expected cloture will be invoked and the Senate will begin the 30-hours of postcloture debate on the CBI/African trade bill. 
   The leader has indicated he hopes to complete action on the trade bill this week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 5:33 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, November 2, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I would like to have unanimous consent to speak for a couple of minutes on our departed colleague, John Chafee, after which I have to preside. I will just take a couple minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I take this opportunity to express my great sense of personal loss on the passing of our colleague from the great State of Rhode Island, John Chafee. 
   I have only been in the Senate for under a year now. I got to know Senator Chafee while I was running for the Senate about a year ago. Even in that short period of time, I came to have great admiration and respect for Senator Chafee. I can only imagine the great sense of grief my colleagues and others who have known him several decades feel at his passing. 
   Of all the people I have known in my lifetime, I have to say that Senator Chafee had more of an aura of goodness, kindness, gentleness, and of fineness than just about anybody I had ever encountered in my life. 
   In many ways, he was a quintessential New Englander. He was modest; he was often taciturn. He did not complain about the health problems he had in the last few months. In fact, he didn't wish to talk about that. He was very hard-working. Others have spoken about his distinguished career in the Senate, as Governor of Rhode Island, and as our Secretary of the Navy. But for all of us who knew him personally, he was a great and fine gentleman. He embodied the best of his State, of his region, of our country, and certainly of this institution. 
   I just wanted to say now how much I appreciated John Chafee for the warm welcome he gave me as a freshman Senator. I regret that I did not have the chance to thank him while he was still with us. We used to share the elevator rides after we voted. We were on the fifth floor of the Dirksen Building, and we would be riding up to that top floor together after practically every rollcall vote in the Senate. I got to know Senator Chafee quite well in the last few months. He was always very kind and interested in me as a freshman. He was always offering to help. When I took a trip earlier this year to give a speech in Rhode Island, he wanted to know beforehand exactly where I was going and my itinerary in his State, and he quizzed me about it afterward. 
   He was a Theodore Roosevelt Republican who was concerned about the preservation of our environment, enhancing it for future generations, and he did a marvelous job as chairman of the Environment Committee. 
   I express my condolences to his wife Virginia, his five children, and most especially to his staff. Senator Chafee's office is right next door to my office in the Dirksen Building. I know that he had a very loyal staff who loved him dearly. Many of his legislative assistants had been with him for 10 years or more, which bespeaks the sense of loyalty and affection they had for him. I know they have suffered a great loss, and we extend our condolences to them. John Chafee will be missed by me and by all of us in the Senate and by the great State of Rhode Island and by our country. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment or two to respond to some of the charges that have been leveled on the floor. 
   After listening to the colloquy that has gone on for some time, the only thing I think is accurate out of it is that I would agree that my friend from South Carolina has fought for years to ban Congress from plundering the Social Security trust fund. He has been a leader in that fight. But the one thing I would point out is that the whole other side of the aisle has been voting time and time again this year against doing just that--locking up the Social Security trust fund so it can't be spent on other programs. 
   Ever since the Social Security program was created, all the money that has been poured into it that is over and above that necessary to pay current Social Security benefits has been taken out and spent on other programs. That is not right. I and my friend from South Carolina agree with that. 
   I know Senator HOLLINGS, as he has said before--if somebody in the private sector were to reach into an employee's pension fund and take that money out and spend it for some other purpose than the employee's pension, they would go to jail under laws that we in Congress have passed. 
   My understanding is as well that a few years back Congress made it illegal for anybody in State or local governments to raid one of their pension funds. 
   It is important that Congress move forward now to once and for all ban the plundering of the Social Security trust fund so we are setting aside money and are in a better financial position come the year 2015 to pay the Social Security benefits of the baby boomers as they retire. 
   I have to say that if, indeed, my friends on the other side of the aisle are in favor of banning Congress and the Government in Washington from spending Social Security trust funds on other programs, why has it been that they have voted against cloture on our Social Security lockbox proposal time and time again this year? 
   It is for that reason I disagree with my friend from California, who said she thought the criticism was unfair in some of those television ads she was talking about. I don't think it is unfair. How can you vote against a Social Security lockbox but then say you really want to protect Social Security? I think it is a very fair point that Republicans have been making. It is a fair criticism of the other side of the aisle. 
   Furthermore, I point out that the other side of the aisle has proposed one new spending bill after the other, and we have no surplus other than the Social Security trust fund. If we want to have more money for spending, where are we going to get that money? The only place to take it, unless you are proposing a tax increase, is to take it out of the Social Security trust fund. 
   Isn't it intellectually dishonest to stand here and say we support protecting Social Security but at the same time get up and propose a whole bunch of new spending bills that there is absolutely no way to pay for without either a tax increase or another raid on Social Security? To my friends on the other side of the aisle, I have to say I think the criticism has been fair. 
   The Senator from South Carolina has said, as my friends from California and Nevada have said, that Republicans have put some of your proposals in what you call the ``legislative graveyard.'' But don't forget those times this summer and before this summer when, time and time again, my Democratic friends put the Social Security lockbox program in the graveyard, from which it still has not emerged. It has only been with repeated pressure that this side of the aisle, on the administration and on the appropriators, has largely been able to set aside the money that is in surplus in Social Security so it will not be spent on other programs. 
   I am hopeful that someday I can work with Senator HOLLINGS to get the strongest possible protection for those Social Security 
   trust funds. Right now, when we are talking about a lockbox, we are really just talking about using that money to pay down the Government debt--the debt that is now in the hands of people who own Government bonds. We are really still not at the point where we can talk about creating a real trust fund that has real money in it that is available to pay benefits. I think someday we need to make that trust fund a real trust fund. 
   But the problem with that is, in order to cross that line, we have to have the great national debate as to where we are going to invest that money because if we are going to make the Social Security trust fund a real fund--I favor doing that--we are going to have to cross a threshold on this issue of what we want that real money to be invested in. 
   Until we have had that debate and reached consensus on that issue, it is appropriate that we take that $3.5 trillion in debt we now owe to people who own Government bonds in this country and all around the world and use the Social Security excess to pay down that debt. That is absolutely the best use of the money. It is far superior to taking it and frittering it away on other programs and leaving our external debt at such high levels. 
   I, again, compliment my friend from South Carolina. He has been the one person I have found in this Senate who agrees with me on this issue that it is wrong for Washington to be telling the American people we have a budget surplus when, in fact, the national debt is still going up. It will go up almost $100 billion. 
   The biggest adjustment I have had coming to Washington, as a first-year freshman coming from a private sector background in banking, is getting used to the Washington math. When I looked at the first budget proposal that said we will have trillions of dollars' worth of surpluses between now and 2015, and I looked at the back of the budget and it had a schedule of the national debt which is going up every year, I asked, how can the national debt be rising if we are running surpluses? Obviously, that doesn't make any sense. That is an accounting trick. If anybody in the private sector used that kind of accounting, they would be in jail. They would have ankle bracelets on. That is a disgrace. It is misleading. 
   I thought the President's address, when he told the country we were going to pay off the national debt by 2015, was very reckless. It was reckless of him to so mislead people. He was talking about one of only two components of our national debt. There are two components of the national debt: debt we owe to people who own government bonds and debt we owe to pension and trust funds, such as the Social Security trust fund and the Federal employees pension fund. 
   We have a President who has a well-deserved reputation for choosing his words carefully. I looked at his statement and couldn't find anything he said that was inaccurate. He said we were going to pay down the debt owed to the public by 2015. 
   What he did not tell the American people, and what Congress has not told the American people, is that the other portion of the national debt, that portion owed to government pension and trust funds, is going to quadruple between now and 2015. 
   Senator HOLLINGS has used the analogy of a family who has a Visa and a MasterCard. In our own families, we would not go home and uncork the champagne when paying down the Visa by putting more debt on the MasterCard. Such dubious refinancing is no cause for celebration. Yet all over Washington they are uncorking the champagne because they are paying down one portion of the national debt; they are not telling anybody the other portion is continuing to skyrocket. 
   I yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I have no problem with offering an amendment. I am happy to vote on it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I want to follow up on that. I said earlier I think the ads are fair in light of the fact that Democrats have voted against the lockbox several times this year. 
   Certainly the Senator would agree the Senator's party has run ads. I was the recipient of $3 million worth of soft money ads that accused me of wanting to do everything except take away Christmas from the people in this country. 
   What has mainly come out in this colloquy on your side of the aisle is that the Senator has stated a good case why it is better to be in the majority than in the minority. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I say to my friend from Nevada, I wonder if there are any Senate rules that have changed from the time the Democrats were in the majority and now when the Republicans are in the majority that the Senator could identify that he thinks have unfairly cut off the rights of the minority. Have any rules changed? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-5-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I think we have already, to some extent. We have had one or two votes that I can recall earlier this year. But the question is, How many times will Members keep bringing up the same issues? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-6-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Absolutely, and I am sure we will at some point. I do know we had some votes, whether they were procedural or actually substantive, on minimum wage because I talked to Senator KENNEDY about it. He was very pleased with my vote earlier this year on that. We have had some votes that touched on that area. 
   I was not in the Senate before this year, so I can't comment on how it was run when the other side was in the majority. My impressions from speaking to some of my senior colleagues on this side of the aisle is that they felt it was always very difficult for them to be in the minority. I think they probably often felt the frustrations that the Senator is feeling now. 
   With that, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, thank you for this opportunity to be heard. 
   Mr. President, listening to my distinguished colleague from California, Senator BOXER, I thought back to earlier this year. We had an issue on which we agreed; in fact, we have had a few this year. This isn't one of them, however. 
   But earlier this year, Senator BOXER was very concerned about the inhumane treatment of dolphins who are getting caught in tuna fishing nets. In fact, she spoke so eloquently on the cruel and inhumane treatment of dolphins that I distinctly remember during that debate, I called home to see how my family was doing, and my 7-year-old boy answered the phone, and he said to me: Daddy, I hope you're going to vote tonight to protect the dolphins. And boy, when I heard that, I really took a careful look at Senator BOXER's bill. I was inclined to support her already, but when I heard that from my son, and I started to focus on that debate, and the eloquence with which she spoke, I wound up voting with her to support and protect those dolphins. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I would like to encourage the Senator from California, and others in the Senate, to maybe think about the humanity issue here as we focus on the debate on partial-birth abortion. 
   Mr. President, I rise today as an original cosponsor of this bill, the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 1999. I would like to thank Senator SANTORUM for sponsoring it again and for his forceful and eloquent arguments on behalf of the innocent unborn. 
   Every time I think about partial-birth abortion, I think of the observations which, I believe, capture the essence of this debate. My esteemed colleague from Illinois, Representative HENRY HYDE, asked: What kind of people have we become that this procedure is even a matter of debate? 
   He went on to say: You wouldn't even treat an animal, a mangy raccoon like this. 
   What is a partial-birth abortion? As it has been described so thoroughly by my colleague from Pennsylvania, and many others, it is a truly gruesome procedure. It is barbaric. It is chilling. It is cruel. More than anything else, what I would like to emphasize here is that it is inhumane. 
   The medical term for this procedure is ``intact dilation and extraction,'' or ``intact D&E,'' for short. I have also heard it referred to as ``intrauterine cranial decompression.'' What do these medical terms mean? 
   Briefly, what happens is this: The abortionist turns the baby around in the womb so it is in the breech position--feet first. The abortionist then pulls the baby out of the womb and into the birth canal so all but its head is outside the mother; thus, the term ``partial birth.'' At this point, the abortionist takes out a sharp surgical instrument, often a pair of scissors, and stabs the baby in the back of its head to create a hole. The abortionist then inserts a type of suction tube into the 
   hole and sucks out the baby's brain. Sucking out the baby's brain causes the skull to collapse, or implode, and the delivery can then be completed. 
   I will read an excerpt from testimony given to Congress by Mrs. Brenda Pratt Shafer, a registered nurse. While working for a temporary placement agency in 1993, Mrs. Shafer was assigned to an Ohio abortion clinic, where she was asked to assist with a partial-birth abortion on a woman who was just over 6 months pregnant. Here is some of what Mrs. Shafer testified to Congress that she observed that day:  
   He delivered the baby's body and arms, everything but his little head. The baby's body was moving. His little fingers were clasping together. He was kicking his feet. The baby was hanging there, and the doctor was holding his neck to keep his head from slipping out. The doctor took a pair of scissors and inserted them into the back of the baby's head, and the baby's arms jerked out in a flinch, a startle reaction, like a baby does when he thinks he might fall. Then the doctor opened up the scissors, stuck the high-powered suction tube into the hole [in the head] and sucked the baby's brains out. The baby went completely limp. Then, the doctor pulled the head out, and threw the baby into a pan.  
   This is inhumane. You wouldn't treat an animal, a mangy raccoon like that. 
   In an attempt to somehow justify the humaneness of this procedure, opponents of a ban have cited the statements of a handful of medical professionals who contend that the unborn baby is actually killed, or rendered brain dead, prior to being extracted  from the womb by the anesthesia given to the mother. 
   Mr. President, and my colleagues, consider this: Professor Robert White, director of the Division of Neurosurgery and Brain Research at Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, testified before a House committee several years ago that:  
   The fetus within this timeframe of gestation, 20 weeks and beyond, is fully capable of experiencing pain.  
   He stated, regarding partial-birth abortions:  
   Without question, all of this is a dreadfully painful experience for any infant subjected to such a surgical procedure.  
   Dr. Norig Ellison, president of the 34,000-member American Society of Anesthesiologists, testified before Congress:  
   I think the suggestion that the anesthesia given to the mother, be it regional or general, is going to cause the brain death of the fetus is without basis of fact.  
   And finally, Dr. Martin Haskell, who has been called a ``pioneer'' in the use of the partial-birth abortion procedure, in 1993, stated:  
   ..... the majority of fetuses aborted this way are alive until the end of the procedure.  
   He went on to say:  
   ..... probably about a third of those are definitely dead before I actually start to remove the fetus. And probably the other two-thirds are not.  
   What kind of a people have we become that this procedure is even a matter of debate in the Senate? You wouldn't treat an animal, a mangy raccoon like that. 
   To my colleagues today who are still seriously considering this debate, this is an issue of basic humaneness, and humaneness is an issue that many of us, on both sides, have often found quite troubling. In my short time in the Senate, I have joined a number of my colleagues on several occasions to speak against the inhumane treatment of animals. In fact, it wasn't very long ago, during the debate on the Interior appropriations bill that I voted in support of an amendment offered by Senator TORRICELLI that would have prohibited the use of funds in the Interior budget to facilitate the use of steel-jawed traps and neck snares for commerce or recreation in national wildlife refuges. 
   During the debate on this amendment, my distinguished colleague from Nevada, Senator REID, described the amendment as a ``no-brainer.'' My colleague went on to say that ``these traps are inhumane. They are designed to slam closed. The result is lacerations, broken bones, joint dislocations, and gangrene.'' In conclusion, Senator REID stated that ``in this day and age, there is no need to resort to inhumane methods of trapping. . . .'' And many of us were persuaded. 
   And why were we persuaded? Why are we troubled by steel-jawed traps? Isn't it, Mr. President, because there's something in our gut that twists and turns over the unnecessary suffering and pain of creatures with whom we share this Earth? The majestic animals that are as much a part of God's wonderful creation as we are. Wonderful animals who add richness and texture to our own experience of the planet. Animals whom we thank God for allowing us to appreciate and admire. 
   The suffering of a bear or a deer can lead many of us to say no to a steel-jawed trap and a neck snare. But what about a scissor through the head and neck of a child? What about sucking out a baby's brain. 
   Mr. President, You wouldn't treat an animal, a mangy raccoon like this. 
   The Senate also acted this year to do more to fight the inhumane treatment of dolphins. On July 22, I supported an amendment offered by Senator BOXER to the fiscal year 2000 Commerce-Justice-State appropriations bill to force countries to pay their fair share of the expenses of the Tuna Commission and delay the importation of tuna caught using fishing methods that unnecessarily harm and kill dolphin. During debate on this amendment, Senator BOXER spoke eloquently of the thousands of dolphin killed each year by fishing methods that cruelly and unnecessarily harass, chase, encircle, maim, and kill dolphin that happen to be swimming over schools of tuna. I appreciated hers and others' efforts in the name of humaneness. 
   God has given us dominion over a wondrous planet, a beautiful blue sphere that takes our breath away when we see it silhouetted against the dark of the universe. And with that dominion we know comes a stewardship, a responsibility to appreciate, care, and speak for God's creation who cannot speak for themselves. 
   I believe our Maker has touched our human conscience with something that makes us almost instinctively recoil from causing unnecessary pain and suffering to animals. I know there's a tender spot in the hearts of some who now oppose a ban on this procedure. I know it's there because I've seen it in debates on the floor of this body. But I don't understand how those who can hear the howl of a wolf or the squeal of a dolphin, can be deaf to the cry of an unborn child. 
   Mr. President, if people were sticking scissors in the heads of puppies, we would not abide it. In the name of common decency and humanity, I implore my colleagues not to let this happen to our own young. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today with my Colleagues to introduce the Electronic Benefit Transfer Interoperability and Portability Act of 1999. This legislation addresses the problem of food stamp beneficiaries being unable to redeem their benefits in authorized stores that may be located outside their state of residence. 
   As you may know, Congress passed legislation in 1996 that required the federal government to deliver food stamp benefits electronically, rather than using the paper coupons. Most states have started the process of issuing plastic cards, very similar to ATM cards to access these benefits. The federal government termed this new process, electronic benefits transfer (EBT). 
   You may have noticed a separate button on the payment terminal in your local supermarket with the designation ``EBT'' or a separate stand-alone payment terminal to handle these new transactions. 
   More than half of the country has already switched from the paper coupons to this new EBT card. However, one significant issue is causing problems in the program for retailers, states and recipients. That issue is the inability for recipients to use their state-issued cards across state lines. This is especially true in communities that are near a state border. 
   Under the old paper system, recipients could use the coupons in any state in the country. Under the new electronic system, that is currently not the case. Customers go into a food store expecting to use their federal benefits to purchase food and when they cannot use their EBT cards, they become frustrated and dissatisfied with the food stamp program. 
   For example, under the old system, a food stamp recipient living in Palmyra, MO could use their food stamp coupons in their favorite grocery store in Quincy, IL just over the Illinois border. Similarly, a recipient living in Illinois could visit family in Tennessee and still purchase food for their children. Food stamp beneficiaries are not unlike the average shopper. Cross border shopping occurs for a variety of reasons. One reason is convenience; another equally important one is the cost of groceries. The supermarket industry is very competitive. Customers paying with every type of tender except EBT have the ability to shop around for the best prices. Shouldn't recipients of our nation's federal food assistance benefits be able to stretch their dollars without regard to state borders? 
   Another reason is convenience. While one of my constituents may live in the metro east area, they might work in St. Louis. Under the current situation, if the only grocery store between their work and their home is in Missouri, the recipient cannot purchase food without traveling out of their way. 
   The legislation I am introducing today would once again, provide for the portability of food assistance benefits and allow food stamp recipients the flexibility of shopping at locations that they choose.  
   Interoperability works well today with ATM/Debit cards, the type of cards that EBT was modeled after. Consumers and merchants are confident that when a MAC card issued by a bank in Pittsburgh is presented, authorization and settlement of that transaction will work the same as when a Star card, issued by Bank of America in California is presented. This occurs regardless of where the merchant is located. 
   Unfortunately, this is currently not the case with EBT cards. If every state operated their EBT program under a standard set of operating rules as this legislation requires, companies operating in multiple states could be more efficient, resolve any discrepancies in customer accounts more quickly and ultimately hold down the price of groceries for all consumers. 
   This legislation I am introducing is very straightforward. Specifically, the legislation: 
   Requires interoperability by October 1, 2002, with a few exceptions needing a waiver; 
   Requires USDA to ``adopt'' the national standard used by the majority of the States; 
   Requires USDA to pay for all interoperability costs (currently estimated by Benton International to be no more than a maximum of $500,000 annually when all states are on EBT systems or $160,000 for the current year), significantly less than the $20 million USDA pays annually to the Federal Reserve to redeem coupons; 
   Requires contracts entered into after the date when the national standard is adopted to use the standard, and for USDA to pay the interoperability costs; 
   Includes transitional funding for states currently using a national standard. Upon enactment, FNS will pay 100 percent of the costs of interoperability fees for current states using a national standard (While the interoperability pilot sponsored by NACHA is due to expire in September, this would allow those states and beneficiaries in states participating in the pilot to continue to have interoperable transactions beyond the pilot period without interruption.); 
   Requires current contracts that are not using the national standard to convert at the point of a new contract; 
   Includes a waiver process for current states with significant technological challenges to provide time to convert to the national standard (This is intended to cover current smart card states). 
   This legislation is more about good government than it is about food stamps. Since 1996, the transition from paper coupons to electronic benefit transfer has saved the federal government a significant amount of money. For example, while the food stamp caseload decreased 24 percent from fiscal year 1995 to 1998, food stamp production and redemption costs dropped by an impressive 39 percent. While it is estimated that the bill's implementation will cost the federal government no more than $500,000 annually, it will save at least $20 million per year when paper coupons are a thing of the past. 
   This legislation is sound public policy that enjoys bipartisan support. I thank my Colleagues, Senators LEAHY, LUGAR, HARKIN and CRAIG, for joining me as co-sponsors of this bill. I would stress to my fellow Senators that this legislation is vitally important to every food stamp recipient, every state food stamp program administrator and every grocery store nationwide. I ask each of you to join me as co-sponsors of this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that John Fisher of the Congressional Research Service be granted the privilege of the floor during the Senate's consideration of S. 82. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, in response to the distinguished Senator from Arizona, I would be delighted to work with him as best I can. I am sorry we have missed each other in recent days. Obviously, he has dual responsibilities now as a candidate for President of the United States. I would certainly like to continue negotiations with him. I do believe---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Well, I understand the last time we talked, I thought the Senator was working to address my concerns. In fact, I didn't realize he supported lifting the high density rule altogether. I guess that is what has taken me by surprise. Senator Moseley-Braun, my predecessor, and Senator DURBIN urged your support to limit the increased exceptions for slot restrictions at O'Hare from 100 down to 30. You had supported that in your original bill which had that 30 figure. You and I had been having discussions with respect to that. 
   This year, the amendment by Senator GORTON and Senator ROCKEFELLER is what has given me pause because, obviously, that would be going in a different direction than the limitations that were worked out with you, Senator DURBIN, and former Senator Moseley-Braun last year in what was reflected as the original version of S. 82.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-5-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-6-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I wish to take a few moments now during this lull in activity on the floor to speak to my concerns about lifting the high density rule that governs O'Hare International Airport in my State. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-7-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I think the first thing we need to do, in considering the Gorton-Rockefeller amendment to lift altogether the high density rule that governs O'Hare International Airport, is to look at what that high density rule is and why it was first imposed. 
   The high density rule was imposed not by Congress, although Congress is attempting to repeal it; the high density rule was imposed by the Federal Aviation Administration back in 1968 or 1969. The reason they imposed it at O'Hare was because by then--already the world's busiest airport--demand for flight operations exceeded capacity at O'Hare. Given that situation, in order to prevent inordinate delays to the air traffic system at O'Hare and around the country, they capped the number of operations per hour at O'Hare. They capped those operations at 155 flights per hour--roughly 1 every 20 seconds. 
   The sponsors of this amendment, and others who are proponents of it, have said: We need to lift that high density rule because it is anticompetitive, and we have to get more competition for more slots and more flights at O'Hare. They point out that just two carriers--United Airlines and American Airlines--control 80 percent of the flight operations at O'Hare International Airport, and there are studies that show that given that duopoly, the prices are higher at O'Hare. And that is true. There is absolutely no question about it. 
   The idea of increasing competition is great in the abstract. There is only one problem. O'Hare Airport does not have the capacity for more flights. 
   How do we know that? We know that because the last time Congress considered lifting the high density rule in 1994, the FAA commissioned a study and asked: What would happen if we were to lift the high density rule at O'Hare International Airport? The study, commissioned by the FAA, came back and said if you did that, there would be huge delays at O'Hare International Airport that would reverberate throughout the entire air travel system in the United States of America. 
   Consequently, following that report, in the summer of 1995, the U.S. Department of Transportation said they would not lift the high density rule at O'Hare because it would add to delays. The reason it would add to delays was because it would put more planes there waiting to take off or land, and that demand for more flights vastly outstripped the capacity at O'Hare. 
   So the problem with lifting that high density rule is that unless there is more capacity in Chicago, planes are just going to sit on the runway at O'Hare until they can take off. 
   What is the situation now? We have not lifted the high density rule now. Are there delays at O'Hare? You bet. There are more delays at O'Hare than just about any other major 
   airport in the entire country, with as many as 100 airplanes lined up every morning waiting to take off from the runway. 
   This proposal is a proposal that would give airlines an unfettered ability to schedule even more flights. Sometimes they schedule 20 flights to take off at the same time. The marketing experts have told the airlines that 8:45 a.m. is a popular time, so schedule your plane to take off at 8:45 a.m. The airlines know darn well only one plane can take off at 8:45 a.m., but as many as 20 of them will be scheduled to take off at that time. What does that mean? That means when you are trying to take off on an 8:45 a.m. flight out of O'Hare, most likely you are going to be sitting on the tarmac waiting to take off. 
   At least the high density rule is some limitation because it is a limitation on how many airline flights can be scheduled to take off within that 8 o'clock hour. But by lifting this rule, we are saying there is not going to be any limitation. Perhaps the airlines could schedule 100 or 200 or 300 flights to take off in that 8 o'clock hour. People will buy tickets; they think they are going to be able to take off sometime in that hour. They do not realize that is just a bait and switch; that the airlines know full well the passengers are going to have to be sitting on the tarmac waiting to take off. 
   Does it make sense, at the most congested, most delay-ridden airport, to add even more delays? It makes no sense at all. 
   I know Senator MCCAIN well. I do believe he is very concerned about competition in the airline industry, and he, in good faith, wants to increase competition in the airline industry. I agree with him wholeheartedly on that point. But I do not agree we want to do it in a way that is going to inconvenience everybody who flies out of O'Hare, and not just everybody who flies out of O'Hare but people all around the country who will suffer because of backlogs and delays at O'Hare International Airport, which is in the center of our country. 
   Furthermore, there is a provision in this bill--neatly tucked in there--that probably not many people can figure out what it means. Let me read it to you. As I said earlier, United and American have 80 percent of the flights at O'Hare. So if we were to add slots or more flights at O'Hare, you would  think we would want to encourage some new entrants into the market, some other companies. That would bring some more competition, bringing some other airlines into O'Hare. 
   There is a little provision in here. I wonder who thought of this. Did some Senator think of this? 
   This is on page 4 of the amendment: ``Affiliated Carriers: ..... the Secretary shall treat all commuter air carriers that have cooperative agreements, including code-share agreements with other air carriers equally for determining eligibility for the application of any provision of these sections regardless of the form of the corporate relationship between the commuter air carrier and the other air carrier.'' 
   I bet many people wonder what that means. What that means is that American Airlines' wholly-owned subsidiary, American Eagle, and United Airlines' affiliate, United Express, can be treated equally with new commuter airlines that are trying to get in and get slots out of O'Hare. 
   This provision in the bill seems to undercut, in my judgment, the argument that this bill would increase competition. In my judgment, competition isn't going to be increased by increasing concentration. The FAA bill before us today will not increase competition due to its definition of the term ``affiliated carrier.'' As the term ``affiliated carrier'' is defined, those carriers that already control the vast majority of capacity at the airport, United and American, will get eligibility for additional capacity and slots. 
   In addition, many carriers that would benefit from this bill are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the controlling carriers. Later, I hope we can have a discussion on that particular aspect of the bill. 
   Let me talk a little bit more in depth about the delays we already have at O'Hare, without this idea of increasing the number of flights we are going to have, regardless of the fact that we don't have more capacity for more flights. 
   This was an article just the other day, September 10, 1999: 
   ``Delays at O'Hare Mounting. For the first 8 months of this year, flight delays at O'Hare soared by 65 percent compared to all of 1997 and by 18 percent over 1998, according to an analysis by the Federal Aviation Administration.'' 
   Why are those delays occurring? In part because in the existing law we already have exemptions from the slot controls put in by the FAA back in 1969. Those slot controls limited the number of flights to 155 operations per hour. By virtue of the 1994 bill we passed in this Congress, before I was here, they allowed more exemptions to those slot rules, and the FAA has been granting those. In fact, I am told the FAA now has about 163 flights an hour at O'Hare. This bill would lift those caps entirely. 
   This is from August 23, 1999. I said O'Hare is one of the most delay-ridden, congested airports in the country. This article talks about it: O'Hare has one of the worst on-time arrival and departure records of any major airport in the Nation, according to U.S. Department of Transportation data analyzed by the Chicago Sun-Times. For the first 6 months of 1999, O'Hare ranked at the bottom or second to last in percentage of on-time arrivals and departures at the 29 biggest U.S. airports, performing worse than the Boston and Newark airports, the other chronic laggards. 
   This goes back to the idea that airlines set their own schedules. There are slot controls that limit the number of flights in an hour at O'Hare. You can get from the FAA a slot to take off in a particular hour. You can get a slot, for example, to take off at the 8 a.m. hour. It is up to the airline, then, to schedule when that plane will take off. 
   It turns out, as the Sun-Times investigative report found, that many of the airlines schedule them all at the same time. At times there have been as many as 80 planes scheduled to take off, all at the same time. Obviously, they can't do that. What that means is that passengers sit on the runway and wait. 
   Have you ever been in an airplane, sitting on the tarmac with that stuffy air, waiting for the plane to take off? The airlines always blame it on the weather or they blame it on the FAA. They blame it on somebody else. They never blame it on themselves for scheduling all the flights to take off at the same time, which we know as a matter of physics is impossible. 
   This October 3 article, just this Sunday, was the front-page headline article in the Chicago Sun-Times: 
   Airlines Cramming Departure Time Slots 
   Airlines at O'Hare Airport schedule so many flights in and out during peak periods that it is impossible to avoid delays, a Chicago Sun-Times analysis shows. 
   O'Hare can handle about 3 takeoffs a minute at most, [that is one every 20 seconds] but air carriers slate as many as 20 at certain times, slots they believe will draw the most passengers. And they've continued to add flights to crowded time slots, even though delays have been increasing since 1997.  
   At least today, even as we have these horrible delays, there is some limitation as to how far the airlines can go with this bait-and-switch tactic with consumers. There is some check. That is the check on the absolute maximum number of slots that can be given for takeoffs and landings at O'Hare in a given hour. This bill removes that check. There will be no check then on airlines scheduling departures and arrivals all at the same time, when it is impossible for them all to land or take off at that time. In fact, you could have 200, 300, 400 
   flights all scheduled to take off at the same time. We are removing any of those caps. 
   I mentioned that in 1995, the FAA ordered a study of what would happen if we lifted the high density rule. Again, the 1995 DOT study shows that lifting the high density rule more than doubles delay times at O'Hare. That is why they didn't do it. According to this report, a Department of Transportation May 1995 Report to Congress, a study of the high density rule, lifting the rule at O'Hare, ORD, is estimated to increase the average time average annual all-weather delay by nearly 12 minutes, from 11.8 to 23.7 minutes per operation, and besides, that average annual delay is much higher now than it was back in 1995, assuming no flight cancellations occur due to instrument flight rules, weather. This is beyond the average of 15 minutes, the original basis for imposing HDR. 
   There are many studies that show the problem. This is why the caps were put on at O'Hare. They wanted to stop delays. The studies have all shown that adding just one more slot beyond the capacity of an airport causes an exponential, compounding increase on the delays. In fact, this is a chart that the Federal Aviation Administration prepared on airfield and airspace capacity and delay policy analysis. Once you go beyond the practical capacity of an airport--and for O'Hare, the FAA has said it is 158 flights per hour--the delays skyrocket. In my judgment, if we are saying now we are not going to have any checks on the demand at O'Hare and there is no added capacity, we are going to go right up into this range very fast. 
   I said yesterday, Mayor Daley from Chicago was supposed to be in Washington last week for an event. We were going to have a taste and touch of Chicago in Washington. There was a huge celebration. There were about 500 people at this reception. We were all there waiting for Mayor Daley. Everybody was asking: Where is Mayor Daley? It turns out Mayor Daley was delayed at O'Hare Airport. In fact, poor Mayor Daley had to sit on the tarmac for 4 hours at O'Hare. He arrived in Washington at 8:30 at night, after the reception was over, and he got the next plane back to Chicago. 
   That is typical of the kind of delays people incur going through O'Hare. This bill would add to that. I think it is a mistake to do that. It ignores the original reason we had for the high density rule. Furthermore, I think it is unusual for Congress to put on the mantle of safety and aviation experts and decide that we are going to rewrite FAA rules. We ought to take that out of the political process, have the FAA write its own rules, not us rejiggle them from the statutes. 
   With that, I am not going to mention at this time what I believe will be the extreme safety hazards by trying to cram more flights into less time and space at O'Hare. A flight lands and takes off every 20 seconds at O'Hare. If we are going to cram more in and narrow the distance, maybe it will come down to every 10 or 15 seconds. There is not much room for error. If you are sitting in a plane and you think there is a plane tailgating you, there is a lot of  pressure. All these takeoffs and landings will not give air passengers a great deal of comfort. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-8-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-9-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to finish one final point to the speech I had given a few moments ago wherein I mentioned the likely delays that would be caused at Chicago O'Hare, and that is the increase in delays that would be caused in Chicago O'Hare and throughout our Nation's entire air traffic system if the high density rule were to be repealed. But right now I mention one other item which is probably the most important matter this Senate confronts in passing statutes to govern our aviation system, and that is the issue of safety. 
   I alluded earlier to the fact that O'Hare is the world's biggest airport and that there is a takeoff and landing every 20 seconds at O'Hare. Any sixth grader can figure out if we are going to try to run more flights per hour and more flights per minute through O'Hare, we are going to have to bring them in and take them off in less time than 20 seconds. Either that or we will continue mounting delays. 
   Most likely, we will continue mounting delays. But it is possible the increased congestion and delays would cause the air carriers to be pressuring the FAA to let the planes take off and would be pressuring the air traffic controllers to get planes into the air quicker, and it would be pressuring them to shorten the separation distances between airplanes. 
   Already in this country, in order to increase capacity at our airports without adding capacity in terms of new facilities and runways, we are doing a number of things. We are reducing separation distances between arriving aircraft. 
   A couple of years ago, I was doing a landing at O'Hare. I was on a commercial air carrier. We were about to land at O'Hare. Lo and behold, we were about to land on top of another 
   plane that was still on the runway. At the last minute, the pilot lifted up, and we took off again right before we hit the other plane that had not gotten off the runway. Many people have probably been through that experience. It is pretty frightening. 
   If we are going to cram more flights into the same space at O'Hare, we are going to see more incidents like that. They are already reducing runway occupancy time. You will notice when your plane lands that it hightails it off that runway because it knows there is another plane right behind. 
   They are doing something that they call land-and-hold operations--they are doing it at O'Hare and across the country--where the plane lands, and it has to get to a crisscross with another runway. They have to hold while another plane lands. Pilots hate to do that, but they are forced to by air traffic control. 
   We are seeing increasing incidents of triple converging runway arrivals in this country. All of this is designed to put more planes together in time and space. I think it is obvious to anybody that decreases the margin of safety that we have in aviation in this country. 
   I think that is a great mistake because nothing is as important as the safety of the flying public. 
   I call your attention to an article that appeared in USA Today. I apologize. The date is wrong on this. It says November 13, 1999. Obviously, that was November 13 of a different year because we haven't gotten to November 13 of 1999. This is actually from 1998. 
   They had a front-page headline article called: ``Too Close for Comfort. Crossing Runways Debated as Travel Soars. Safety, On-Time Travel on Collision Course, Pilots Say.'' 
   Let me read a quote from this article from USA Today from November 13, 1998.  
   ``They are just trying anything to squeeze out more capacity from the system,'' says Captain Randolph Babbitt, President of the Airline Pilots Association, which represents 51,000 of the 70,000 commercial pilots in the United States and Canada. ``Some of us think this is nibbling at the safety margins.''  
   Probably at no airport in the country have we nibbled more at the safety margins than at O'Hare International Airport--the world's biggest airport, the world's most congested, the one that has the most delays in this country. 
   I will read a portion of a letter that was sent earlier this year to the Governor of our great State, Governor George Ryan.  
   My name is John Teerling and I recently retired, after 31.5 years with American Airlines as a Captain, flying international  routes in Boeing 767 and 757's. I was based at Chicago's O'Hare my entire career. I have seen the volume of traffic at O'Hare pick up and exceed anyone's expectations, so much so, that on occasions, mid-airs were only seconds apart. O'Hare is at maximum capacity, if not over capacity. It is my opinion that it is only a matter of time until two airliners collide making disastrous headlines.  
   I close with that thought, and I caution the Senate on the effects of our interfering in the rulemaking authority of the FAA, overruling their authority, and by statute rewriting their rules. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-10-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise on behalf of myself and my colleague from Illinois, Senator DURBIN, to propose an amendment to the amendment proposed by the Presiding Officer himself, Senator GORTON, and Senator ROCKEFELLER. I send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes, I will yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, this amendment would exempt O'Hare International Airport from any lifting of the high density rule. I understand this amendment has been accepted on both sides. I ask unanimous consent the amendment be agreed to. 
   I thank the Presiding Officer himself for his efforts to work with me, and also the distinguished Commerce Committee Chairman, Senator MCCAIN from Arizona, and the ranking Democratic member, Senator ROCKEFELLER. Of course, I thank the good auspices of our majority leader who helped work out this agreement. I appreciate the time and consideration of all on a very difficult matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I appreciate the comments of the manager of the bill and also the distinguished Senator from West Virginia. One thing I want to make clear, contrary to the statement of the Senator from West Virginia, is that at least this Senator from Illinois does not believe he was involved in any of the negotiations, certainly not with respect to this last-minute attempt to entirely lift the high density rule that has governed three of our Nation's most crowded and congested airports since the late 1960s. 
   Going back to the 1960s, the FAA has had a rule in effect that limits operations at Chicago O'Hare International Airport to 155 operations an hour. The reason for that rule was that the airport was at capacity and adding more operations per hour would add to delays and jeopardize the safety of the flying public. 
   This original bill had an exemption for 30 new slots that the FAA could grant at O'Hare. I had misgivings about even those 30 exemptions for new flights at O'Hare, and I had been working with the chairman of the Commerce Committee on that issue, going back several months. But this was at the last minute. In fact, I read it in the newspaper today that a deal had been cut behind the scenes to go ahead and lift the high density rule altogether.  
   I think that is a grave mistake that could jeopardize the safety of our flying public in the United States. I fly out of O'Hare International Airport every week. In fact, I live 12 miles from it. As I grew up, that airport grew up. It grew into the busiest airport in the world. Anybody who has been there this year knows that it is so crowded and congested that there are constant delays at O'Hare. In fact, a report that 
   came out earlier this year suggested there are more delays at O'Hare International Airport than at any other major airport in the country. 
   In 1995, when Congress considered lifting the high density rule, the FAA commissioned a study to look into what would happen if they lifted the high density rule. That study concluded it would be a great mistake to lift the high density rule because it would further add to delays at O'Hare and some of the Nation's other slot-controlled airports. 
   When there are massive delays at O'Hare, it pressures the air traffic controllers to hurry up and get more flights in the air to alleviate those delays. Sometimes there are 100 flights waiting to take off at O'Hare International Airport. Lifting the high density rule says that maybe sometimes we will have 200 flights waiting to take off on the runways at O'Hare. With that kind of pressure on the air traffic controllers, certainly there is the possibility to do something unwise and to make too many flights take off too close to each other, which could risk the lives of passengers in this country. 
   I am here to tell you that if one passenger dies in the United States because this Congress, going along with pressure from United and American Airlines, which already have 80 percent of the market in Chicago O'Hare and want more of it and are trying to block the construction of a third airport in Chicago because they do not want anybody else to have any of the market in Chicago, if in responding to pressure from those airlines, we are going to add so many more flights at O'Hare that we jeopardize the life of just one passenger in this country, then we have made a horrible, grave mistake. 
   Thus, I will be here everyday this bill is up, and I will fight doing that. I look forward to working with the managers of the bill to possibly address my concerns. 
   I was elected, in part, on this issue, and my predecessor, Carol Moseley-Braun, in fact, last year when there was a proposal to add just 100 more slots at O'Hare, fought that. She thought she had an agreement to lower that to 30 more slots that could be sparingly granted by the FAA, if all sorts of certain criteria were met. 
   Now it appears there is an effort on the part of those who have negotiated this bill to run roughshod over all those conversations with Senators from Illinois and go ahead and say the sky is the limit at O'Hare. 
   It is interesting; last week, Mayor Daley from Chicago was trying to fly to Washington. We had a Taste of Chicago party on the House side of the Capitol. It was a huge party. There were 500 people from Chicago willing to celebrate the Taste of Chicago in Washington. Unfortunately, the mayor of Chicago was stuck on the tarmac at O'Hare for 4 hours because of delays. 
   It is too crowded and it is too congested. 
   Fortunately, thus far, the air traffic controllers have managed the traffic and the delays there, and they have not felt pressured into doing something unwise. But it is very possible that we could put so much pressure on those air traffic controllers and those pilots that a mistake could be made and we could jeopardize the safety of the flying public. 
   So I will be here to fight the lifting of those caps at O'Hare. We have to come up with some other solutions. I do agree we want competition amongst our airlines. Certainly with the situation at O'Hare, where you have two airlines, United and American, that control 80 percent of the slots, they don't want anybody else to cut into their monopoly there. Thus, they don't want any more air capacity outside of O'Hare in Chicago. I understand that. That has created problems. I want to work to solve those problems with the Members of this body. But I do not think we should do it in such a way that we cause more delays at O'Hare, which puts more pressure on our air traffic controllers, our pilots, and our whole infrastructure in aviation, and potentially jeopardizes the safety of the flying public. 
   Mr. President, thank you very much. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Stanley Bach of the Congressional Research Service be granted the privilege of the floor during the Senate's consideration of S. 82. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-5-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-6-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-7-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Evelyn Fortier of my office be granted the privilege of the floor during the Senate's consideration of S. 82. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-8-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-9-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Madam President, if I could just take a moment now, I say to the Senator from Washington, I would be happy to take my time tomorrow when we consider the amendment on lifting the high density rule. But if I could just reiterate my opposition to lifting the high density rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. As was noted earlier, the FAA imposed the high density rule back in the late 1960s. It was an internal FAA rule. I guess I am a little perplexed as to why Congress would come in and rewrite, with statute, an FAA rule. 
   If the FAA thinks it is a good idea to lift the slot rules at O'Hare, if they think it is safe to do that, they are confident it will not add to any delays at the most congested, most delay-filled airport in the country, then the FAA can go in and do that. So I guess the threshold issue is, I am perplexed why we would come in and write a statute that overrides a Federal Aviation Administration rule. 
   I do believe, while the proponents of this proposal have good intentions; they would like to increase competition and access to the Chicago market; and certainly it could be argued that would benefit the whole Nation and could even benefit Chicago--a basic law of physics says that you cannot have two objects occupying the same space at one time. 
   Right now, O'Hare, which has over 900,000 operations a year, is already at capacity. The FAA commissioned a study in 1995. That study concluded that the absolute maximum number of flights or operations one could have at O'Hare in an hour was 158. Today, we are at 163 operations at O'Hare in an hour. This proposal before the Senate is to lift any restrictions at all. 
   A flight lands and takes off every 20 seconds at O'Hare. If we want to cram more flights into O'Hare International Airport, are we going to close that 20 seconds that divides each flight going in and out of O'Hare? What is a safe amount of time? Ten seconds between flights? How would you like to be coming in 10 seconds behind the plane in front of you with another flight 10 seconds behind you? Would you feel safe flying that jumbo jet in that compact air space? 
   Going into O'Hare right now, one can look in every direction and see planes lined up as far as the eye can see waiting to land at O'Hare. In the morning hours at O'Hare, there are typically as many as 100 flights waiting to take off. 
   I hope the Members of this body will give thought to what we are doing. With this lifting of the high density rule, we are saying it is safe to cram more flights into the most congested airport in the country; that it is not endangering the safety of the flying public and that it won't add delays. 
   I never did take physics in high school. I have to admit it. I was a classics major. I majored in Latin and Greek. I took a lot of humanities courses and my great interest was not science. But I am going to be interested to hear whether there is some scientific evidence that we can keep packing more and more flights into the most congested, dense, delay-filled, crowded air traffic space in the world. I will be 
   interested to learn why other Members of this body think that is a good policy and why it would be safe. 
   With that, I look forward to being afforded the opportunity to speak on this matter tomorrow. I thank the distinguished Senators from West Virginia and the State of Washington for conferring with me this afternoon. I look forward to being given the time to address this matter to the full Senate body tomorrow. Hopefully, at that time, more of my colleagues will have arrived, many of whom will have passed through O'Hare and probably some, quite a few, who will have incurred delays on their way passing through O'Hare. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Senator SHELBY knows both of these projects are vitally important to the Chicago metropolitan region's transportation system. The Stevenson carries 135,000 vehicles per day, including 24,000 heavy trucks, and is 15 years beyond its design life. Wacker Drive, in downtown Chicago, built in 1926, is also well beyond its design life. It carries 60,000 vehicles per day. Both projects are high priorities of the Illinois Congressional Delegation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. We thank the chairman for his remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I am proud to rise in support of the Bryan amendment. In fact, I would like to tell the body that I am a cosponsor of this amendment, the Bryan-Fitzgerald amendment. It is going to be second degreed with Senator WYDEN's amendment. I continue to support the bill. I think it is a reasonable, moderate approach. I have great respect for my colleague from Idaho, Senator CRAIG, and I am very impressed by his concern for his State and the Forest Service, for his knowledge of the area, and for the jobs that are in the timber industry in this country. But I think it is important to notice that this is a very moderate amendment. 
   It does not end timber sales in this country. In fact, it simply cuts back an increase that the Appropriations Committee added to the Forest Service's Timber Sales Management Program--an increase that went $32 million beyond what the Forest Service chief requested, what the administration requested. 
   This bill simply funds the Timber Sales Management Program at the very same amount that the Forest Service has requested. 
   With all due respect, I have to say that many of the horror stories we heard on the floor last night and this morning about what effect this would have on timber sales and logging in this country are not true. It is also a very fiscally conservative approach. Of the $32 million that the Appropriations Committee gave to the Forest Service budget beyond what the Forest Service requested, we are going to apply $10 million to reduce our national debt--to pay down that important debt we are trying to eliminate over time. The rest of it we are applying for other important priorities such as restoring cuts in the fish and wildlife program that were used to, in fact, fund this increase. 
   People might ask why do we need this amendment? In my judgment, increasing the timber sales management budget can't be justified either on economic grounds or on environmental grounds. 
   First, if I could speak for a moment on the economic grounds, there have been a variety of studies over the recent years that have been very critical of the country's Timber Sales Management Program. All of the different reports have suggested that the program loses money. There have been different studies. Some have suggested--in fact, the Forest Service itself, I believe, estimated its loss in fiscal year 1997 at 
   $889 million. But other estimates by other people using different accounting methods have suggested that the true net cash loss to the taxpayers could be as much as $1.3 billion in fiscal year 1997. You get different amounts depending on which type of accounting you would use to estimate the loss from the timber sales in this country. But whatever the true number is, there is widespread agreement that the program loses money and that it is a drain on the taxpayers. 
   I have to ask why would we want to put more money into a program that by everybody's measure loses money for the taxpayers? It doesn't seem to make sense economically. Also, environmentally there are many arguments that appropriate management of our national forests and appropriate targeted cuts may actually have a beneficial effect over time. 
   I have talked on several occasions to Senator CRAIG. I know he believes strongly that the management of our forests is environmentally sound. I would simply point out we are not curtailing all timber sales. We are preserving the status quo in timber sales in this country. This amendment does not go so far as to end timber sales. It funds them at roughly the same level they were funded last year. But we are not going to increase it. 
   Obviously, from an environmental standpoint, the timber sales in this country are very controversial, particularly where you have an old-growth forest. Forests once cut come back. They grow back. But they never quite grow back in the same way in the same original pristine state that they once were. 
   Over the August recess, I had the occasion to vacation in northern Wisconsin, in an area that was in the middle of a State forest in Wisconsin. That whole area, as I understood it from reading the history of the region, was completely clearcut in the late 1890s. In the intervening 100 years, the forest has grown back. But I read a study of the forest which showed that it didn't come back in the same way. There were different trees that came back. In fact, some of the more valuable trees were not favored in that regrowth process. 
   Once a pure pristine forest is cut, it can never be regained in the beautiful form that it once was. Since those pristine areas in this country are fewer and fewer now as we enter the third millennium, don't we want to think about how much we want to expand the cutting of our national forests? 
   Finally, one of the points I make is that timber sales from timber harvested in our national forests represent only a small portion of our Nation's timber supply. In fact, I am told--I have seen estimates--that as low as 3.3 percent of our timber comes from national forests. We are in no way dependent on those national forests in order to meet our timber needs in this country. In any case, this amendment does not cut that amount, whatever it is; it says we are not going to expand it. 
   In sum, I think this is a very well balanced, moderate, measured amendment. I compliment Senator BRYAN, my colleague, and also Senator WYDEN for their work on this. 
   I am proud to support this amendment. I support it with wholehearted enthusiasm. While I cannot claim to have the extent of beautiful national forests in my great State of Illinois that some of my colleagues from the West may have, we have the Shawnee National Forest in southern Illinois. It is one of the most beautiful parts of our State. It is something that is of concern to people right in my State--and that we have jobs in that area down in southern Illinois. 
   I very much enjoyed spending 5 days with my family in the Shawnee National Forest about a year or so ago. 
   I am hoping we can go forward into the 21st century finding a way to make sure we have an ample supply of timber in this country but at the same time preserving some of the pristine natural areas in this country--that we don't go too far in either direction. 
   This is a very well-balanced amendment. I am pleased to support it. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I am very pleased to rise in strong support of my colleague from California on this legislation. Senator GRAMM is one of my senior colleagues whom I respect as much as anybody in this body for his intelligence and hard work. On this issue, though, I respectfully disagree. 
   The EPA called for a study last November. They appointed a blue-ribbon committee that did come up and look into the scientific evidence. On that blue-ribbon committee there were representatives, importantly, of the oil industry, which would have an economic interest to see that MTBE not be done away with. This committee, this blue-ribbon panel, had a representative from the American Petroleum Institute and also an oil company. They said of MTBE in our Nation's fuel supply, that while all gasoline can possibly leak through an underground storage tank into the ground water, they specifically pointed out that MTBE is more dangerous when leaking into the ground water than other gasoline components. That is on page 3 of the report. 
   They recommend that MTBE be phased out gradually. Senator GRAMM brings up a good point. We have to have an alternative. We may not have at the current moment the production capabilities to replace the MTBE all at once. But I do believe we have to act quickly because we are talking about our Nation's ground water, and ground water contamination is very serious. In California it has been estimated that a large 
   percentage of their ground water has been contaminated. This is a possible carcinogen. We cannot dawdle on an issue such as this. We have to move quickly. 
   Ethanol, as many of you know, can be used as an alternative to MTBE. We do have an alternative that is environmentally safe and sound. Yes, it does help our American farmers. Not only does it help corn growers in my State, which is a major corn-producing State, but ethanol can be derived from wheat, from rice straws, even from potatoes and, yes, potentially it could help farmers all across the country if they could produce the oxygenate for our reformulated fuel in this country. 
   So I am in strong support of this legislation. I think it is good public policy for us to urge the EPA to act quickly. Our Nation's ground water supply is at stake. We do not want this situation to go on any longer. We cannot afford to wait. We must act quickly. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I am proud to rise in support of Senator ASHCROFT's amendment, of which I am a cosponsor. Before getting into the specifics of Senator ASHCROFT's amendment, I want to lay the table a little bit by describing what I have heard in the agricultural community in my State and to talk for a moment about a farm rally that I attended last Saturday in Plainfield, IL. At that rally, which was held on the Schultz farm in Plainfield, IL, there were more than 500 farmers, not just from Illinois but from all over the country. There were farmers from as far away as Washington State and from Oklahoma and from the Southern and Eastern States as well. 
   The one message I heard, talking to the farmers, not just those from Illinois but those from all across the country, was that there is a severe crisis in agriculture right now. Crop prices are at almost record low levels, if you consider the effects of inflation. The prices are low not just for corn and soybeans but also for hogs and wheat, and the list goes on. 
   On top of that, we are seeing a trade situation now in which the countries in the European Union, to whom we used to export large amounts of our grain and livestock products, are, with increasing frequency, raising not just tariff barriers to the importation of American agricultural goods but also  nontariff barriers, pseudoscientific trade barriers, objections to the safety of our food, objections for which very few in the scientific community have said there is any basis. 
   Also we have seen a slump in the economy in Asia. The near depression in Asia in the last year has caused a severe drop-off in the amount they are importing from the United States and from our farmers in this country. On top of that, as was said earlier today, some parts of our country are experiencing drought, other parts floods. Farmers have complaints, as we all know, about the tax code and its consequences that are particularly felt by family farmers who can't deduct health insurance, for example, who have a very hard time meeting the obligations of the death tax, which taxes their family farms at 55 and, in some cases, 60 percent of their value when a farmer dies. 
   I am very pleased that Senator COCHRAN and the Agriculture Appropriations Committee have come up with some short-term relief that I think most of us agree is needed. I think Senator COCHRAN's bill will be adequate to meet the challenges we now have in the short term. 
   I am concerned that we not just address the short term, Mr. President. I think it is very important that we think about long-term solutions for the farm crisis in this country so that we don't have to come back every year and face ongoing crises year after year. Perhaps the best thing we can do for the long-term survival and success of our American farmers is to improve the trade climate. 
   Several years ago, we passed the Freedom to Farm Act. The farmers in my State of Illinois frequently say: You gave us the freedom to farm, but you didn't give us the freedom to trade. What good is that freedom to farm, that freedom to plant all the acres we wish, if we don't have the freedom to sell our products abroad as we need? 
   So I think it is very important that we work on a variety of fronts in the trade area. I favor fast track trade negotiating authority for our President. I think that normal trade relations with China would help our farmers. Accession of China into the WTO would be helpful. Agriculture needs a seat at the trade table next fall in the negotiations for the Seattle round of the multilateral trade negotiations. We need to have representatives from the USDA right there with Charlene Barshefsky when we are negotiating trade issues next fall. We also need strong enforcement of WTO trade disputes and, of course, open access for our GMO food products in Europe. 
   One step toward improving the trade climate for our Nation's farmers is the pending amendment that Senator ASHCROFT and I and a number of my colleagues have cosponsored. I am rising today to support that amendment to exempt food and medicine from unilateral sanctions. Unilateral sanctions on food and agricultural products clearly hurt American agriculture more than anyone else. The target country simply buys its food from some other country, leaving less money in our farmers' pockets. When the U.S. Government decides to sanction food and agriculture, it simply tells our international competitors to produce more to meet the excess international demand. Once American agriculture loses these markets to our foreign competitors, our reputation then as a reliable supplier is tarnished, making it difficult for us to regain these markets for future sales. 
   Our agricultural trade surplus totaled $272 billion just 3 years ago in 1996. But this year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture projects that our ag trade surplus will have dwindled to approximately $12 billion. Reversing this downward trend in the value of our exports through effective sanctions policy reform should be a top priority of this Congress. 
   America's farmers demand it and they deserve it. We should be responsive. 
   The current slump in commodity prices makes significant sanctions policy reform even more timely and necessary. In fact, recent estimates calculate the cost of U.S. sanctions at $15 to $19 billion annually. These potential sales could give a significant boost to our rural economy, if only they were allowed by the Federal Government. Free and open international markets are vital to my home State. Illinois' farm products sales generate $9 billion annually, and Illinois ranks third in this country in agricultural exports. 
   In fiscal year 1997 alone, Illinois agricultural exports totaled $3.7 billion and created 57,000 jobs for the State of Illinois. Needless to say, agriculture makes up a significant portion of my State's economy, and a healthy export market for these products is important to all my constituents. For this reason, I am proud to cosponsor Senator ASHCROFT's amendment. 
   The amendment simply exempts food and medicine from unilateral sanctions, unless the President submits a report to Congress requesting that agriculture be sanctioned and the Congress approves the request by joint resolution. With commodity prices where they are, and with the Seattle round of trade negotiations looming on the horizon, we must act quickly to unbridle the farm economy from the tight reins of current U.S. sanctions policy. 
   Mr. President, I note that Senator ASHCROFT has crafted this amendment so that there are escape hatches that, in severe cases, the President, working with Congress, can, if he absolutely believes it necessary, go forward and maintain sanctions in a particular case and perhaps, in some cases, we in Congress will deem that advisable. 
   With that, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. GRAHAM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I thank Senator ROTH for this time. 
   I am pleased to rise in support of the tax relief act that has been proposed by Senator ROTH and the Senate Finance Committee. 
   During this debate which has been going on some 15 hours and several days before that, we heard many opponents of tax relief argue that we ought to focus on paying down that external national debt, which now stands at about $3.6 trillion. Many on the other side have said our focus on paying down that national debt should encourage Members to support the President's plan, which actually has very limited tax relief in it. By the CBO's own estimates, it actually has a $95 billion tax increase, and people believe that somehow going with no tax cut in the President's plan will pay down more of the national debt. 
   But, in fact, if you look at the real numbers and look where the national debt will be 10 years out, in the year 2009, you see that Senator ROTH's plan and the Finance Committee plan pays down more of the national debt, the external national debt, than the President's plan which has a net tax increase of $95 billion. 
   In fact, under the Senate plan that is now before us, the national debt will be paid down, the external national debt, will be paid down from $3.6 trillion to $l.5 trillion by the year 2009 versus only $1.8 trillion under the President's plan. In other words, even with the tax cuts, we pay more of the external national debt, and we are in a better position, therefore, in the future to take care of our ongoing obligations for Social Security and Medicare. 
   But I want to encourage my colleagues to step back from this whole debate. We have heard all sorts of arguments about how much the surplus is projected to be--$3 trillion--and their plan will save that amount and this plan will cut taxes by this amount. But let us step back from that issue and just look at where overall levels of taxation are right now in our Nation's history. 
   Going back to 1941--this is from the Congressional Research Service--if you look at the levels of taxes in this country, Federal taxes as a percentage of our gross domestic product, you will see that our taxes right now are almost at an all-time high. Right now, Federal taxes as a percentage of our gross domestic product are 20.6 percent of our economy. 
   When President Clinton first took office, taxes were 17.8 percent. If we were to give the entire $3 trillion surplus back in the form of tax cuts, the tax burden would still be 18.8 percent of the gross domestic product. You have to look back to 1944 and 1945, when we were in the midst of World War II, to find such high levels of taxation on the American people. 
   These are the seven heaviest tax burdens in U.S. history. Right now, in the year 1999, our tax burden is up here. To get equivalent high tax burdens, you have to look to the administration of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1944, or Harry Truman in 1945 when we were attempting to throw Hitler out of Europe, and when we were spending 38 percent of our money on our Nation's defense. Today, we are only spending about 23 percent. By historic standards, our taxes are enormously high. In fact, they are unprecedented in our peacetime history, and we ought, therefore, to be thinking about tax relief. 
   Another thing I would like to point out to you is that right now the average family in America is paying nearly 40 percent of its family income in combined Federal, State, and local taxes. That 40-percent burden means that in families in this country where you have two parents who are working, one of them is working for the government. I don't happen to think that is right. We need to do what we can to alleviate that tax burden on our American families. 
   We talk all the time in Washington about government programs that can help our families, help our children, improve their education, but all too often we ignore the fact that the greatest single reform we could have for our kids or for their futures would not be another government program but, in fact, more parental involvement in their lives. 
   But when you have a confiscatory level of taxation that is taking nearly 40 percent of the average family income where 
   parents are working two, and sometimes two and a half or even three jobs just to pay the cut extracted by Uncle Sam---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Could I request 2 minutes taken from the bill? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. In short, families right now in America are spending more on taxes than they are on food, housing, and clothing combined. The actual tax levels have increased by 35 percent. The combined Federal, State, and local tax burden has increased by 35 percent on American families since the late 1950s. That tax burden is too high. We need to alleviate it. 
   I compliment Chairman ROTH for what he has done to structure a bill that would eliminate that odious marriage tax penalty on 22 million American married couples who are penalized  for being married. It would also give serious major tax relief to people in the lowest tax bracket--that 15-percent tax bracket which would be lowered to 14 percent. That bracket would also be expanded in size so that more Americans could pay taxes at that lower level. 
   I appreciate the time. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the Chair. To the Senator from Michigan, I thank him for allowing me to speak on Senator KYL's underlying amendment. 
   The recent release of the Cox report and the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board's report has confirmed our worst fears that lax security at our national laboratories enabled the Chinese to steal some of our nation's most guarded nuclear secrets. This appears to be among the most severe breaches of American security in our Nation's history. This issue is of particular concern to my state, Illinois, as we are the home of three labs--Argonne National Laboratory, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, and the New Brunswick National Laboratory. 
   But despite years of warnings, beginning with a detailed briefing by the Department of Energy on the issue, the administration did next to nothing to close the breach in security at our national labs, and did next to nothing to keep suspected scientists away from classified information. Instead, the administration soft-pedaled the issue, encouraged the transfer of technology to China, and even denied that any secrets were lost to China during this administration. The administration's response to report after report of security threats to our labs has been, ``See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.'' In fact, the administration sought to undermine the truth and accuracy of reports of these security breaches. And when the disastrous consequences of this policy of denial and inaction were exposed, the administration played a half-hearted game of catch-up that continues to this day. 
   The report issued by the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board presents a scathing and highly critical account of DOE's handling of, and response to, the threat posed to weapons labs by Chinese espionage. The report characterizes DOE as having a ``dysfunctional management structure and culture,'' unable to respond to the unique challenge posed by China. Unfortunately, DOE is in the words of the report a `dysfunctional bureaucracy that has proven it is incapable of reforming itself'' 
   In the coming years, the United States may pay a terrible price for this dereliction of duty. China is likely to make a great leap forward in its ability to threaten the United States with nuclear attack, thanks to stolen American nuclear weapon and missile technology. In fact, China now admits that it has neutron bomb technology. A well-known proliferator, China may sell or give this advanced technology to Iran or Pakistan, further increasing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the missiles to deliver them. 
   For our part we, as Senators, must undertake the task of repairing the system that allowed this information to fall into the hands of China. To this end a number of my colleagues and I have co-sponsored an amendment to the intelligence authorization bill initially offered by Senators KYL, DOMENICI, and Chairman MURKOWSKI. This amendment would create a semi-autonomous agency within DOE responsible for the nuclear weapons laboratories and their security. I ask for and encourage Senators to join me and the other cosponsors in supporting this measure. I welcome Secretary Richardson's change of mind on this issue. Although he was initially opposed to such an agency, the Secretary has joined the bipartisan group of Senators in supporting the concept of a semi-autonomous agency for nuclear stewardship. 
   I hope that my colleagues will join us in passing this legislation and implementing this important step in sealing the breach in security at our Nation's weapons labs. 
   Mr. KYL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to speak for up to 5 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-3-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-4-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today, along with my colleagues, Senators DURBIN, GRASSLEY, and HARKIN, to introduce a bill to preserve the integrity of our arsenals and the vital role they play in our national security and defense. 
   There are three arsenals remaining in this country charged with the responsibility of maintaining a military production capability in case of war. The Rock Island Arsenal in my home State of Illinois is one of those three national arsenals. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I will speak for a few moments today about an issue of great concern to me and many other Members. In the last few days in Washington, there has been literally a euphoria over the notion we in Washington are running large budgetary surpluses on an annual basis. The uncorking of champagne bottles all around town has taken place on the notion that, because we are running surpluses, we are somehow paying down the national debt. 
   Yesterday, the New York Times had an article on page 14 entitled, ``Clinton Sees the Possibility of Zero U.S. Debt by 2015.'' 
   As I will show, this article is dead wrong. The article stated that the entire national debt, which now stands at over $5.6 trillion, will be paid down by the year 2015. It went on to state that the debt clock in New York, which is a daily tally of the Federal national debt, would be down to zero by the year 2015. 
   It turns out that is dead, flat wrong. In fact, the national debt is now rising. It is going to continue to rise every year of the President's 15-year projections. The total national debt by the year 2015, as listed on that debt clock in New York, will stand at more than $7 trillion. 
   How can this be? We have heard from Washington that we are running large  annual budget surpluses. The President, 2 days ago, said this year we will have a $98 billion surplus, and those surpluses are going to rise each year to the point that in the year 2004 we will have a $253 billion surplus. 
   Looking at the fine print on the President's midyear report, we find our total gross Federal debt is still going up. 
   It stood at $5.4 trillion at the end of the last fiscal year. This year, it will rise to $5.6 trillion. By the year 2004, the total gross Federal debt will have risen to over $6 trillion. 
   How can our national debt still be going up if we are running surpluses in Washington? The answer to that question is, we really do not have surpluses in Washington. They have a definition of surpluses in Washington which is far different from the average perception of what the word surplus would mean to American families or businesses. One would think when you have surpluses, you would be paying down your debt, not increasing it. However, in Washington, the debt is still going up, even as they say they have surpluses. 
   We know our President chooses his words very carefully. I read his press statements the other day. He was careful not to say we are paying down the total Federal debt. He talked instead about one of the components of the Federal debt. It turns out there are two parts to the Federal debt. There is debt owed to Government accounts and there is debt held to the public. Both of those debts have to be paid off. At some point, we have to come up with the cash to pay down those debts. 
   What President Clinton chose to do in his statements the other day was ignore this part of the Federal debt and decide he would only focus on debt held by the public. It is true he is actually going to start trying to pay down the debt held by the public. Debt held by the public stood at $3.7 trillion at the end of last year. By the year 2004, the President will have paid it down about $700 billion to $2.9 trillion. It is true by the year 2015 he will have paid this portion of the national debt down to zero. 
   How is he going to pay that portion of the debt down to zero? He is going to borrow more from the Government accounts. He is going to borrow more from Government accounts. It turns out he will increase the Government accounts section of the national debt. Not only will he increase it, he is going to quadruple debt held by these Government accounts. It will rise from $1.7 trillion at the end of last year to $3 trillion by the year 2004. Guess what. By the year 2015, when the New York Times said we would have no national debt, it turns out the debt in this column will be more than $7.5 trillion. 
   I have to say, if the ordinary family were to pay down their mortgage by running up their credit card and then realize what they were doing, I think they probably wouldn't feel it was cause for celebration that they had just shifted the composition of their debt. Similarly, I don't think there is cause yet in Washington to uncork the champagne bottles and pat ourselves on the back that we are paying down a portion of the Federal debt while we are increasing the other portion and are increasing the overall debt. 
   Right now, the average family in America is responsible for $55,000 of that total national debt. Each family's share of the national debt is going to be going up in each and every year of the President's 15-year projections. At the end of the 15 years, the total national debt will be even higher than it is now, and each family's share of that national debt will be even higher. 
   This chart shows the direction our national debt is going: It is continuing to rise. We are digging the hole deeper. 
   All this talk about surpluses in Washington should be taken with a grain of salt. The surpluses they are talking about are fictitious surpluses; they are accounting gimmicks. If any private business man or woman used the same kind of accounting they use in Washington, they could potentially wind up behind bars in a Federal penitentiary. We need to change the accounting system in Washington so the public and the media cannot be so easily misled. 
   I am hopeful the press throughout this Nation will point out that the earlier reports were flatout wrong, that the debt clock in New York will not stand at zero by the year 2015, even under the President's projections. Under the President's own projections of our national debt, it will be higher in the year 2015 than it is now. 
   I think it is a shame Washington is misleading the American public about our true financial condition. Is it not high time we end the hocus-pocus bookkeeping in Washington and speak the plain truth? 
   I ask unanimous consent to print the New York Times article in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to express my hope for the speedy recovery of someone who gave so many Illinoisans, including me, joy throughout his great career. Ron Santo, former third baseman for the Chicago Cubs and the Chicago White Sox, suffered a heart attack Monday in Denver, and I wanted to take a moment to recognize him and express my hopes for a speedy recovery. 
   Ron Santo played fourteen seasons for the Chicago Cubs from 1960 to 1973 and one for the Chicago White Sox in 1974, during which time he appeared in nine All-Star Games and won five Gold Glove Awards at the ``hot corner.'' He was also a member of the 1969 Chicago Cubs team which lost its chance at the playoffs because of the famous, or to Illinoisans, infamous, run of the ``Miracle'' Mets. When I was a boy, I was lucky enough to have Santo autograph a Cubs' game program for me, which I still have. 
   His career statistics measure up well against those of anyone to ever play the game. He finished his illustrious career with 2254 hits, 342 of which were home runs, 1331 Runs Batted In, and a .277 career batting average. In 1964, Santo even led the league in triples with 13. He ranks in the top 10 among players for the Chicago Cubs in games played, at bats, runs scored, hits, doubles, runs batted in, and extra-base hits. 
   Now that his playing days are over, Santo continues to make a contribution to the Cubs and to Chicago as a broadcaster, and one of the best and most energetic in the game at that. Mr. President, I would like to call on the Senate to join me in wishing Mr. Santo, his wife Vicki, and his four children the very best and expressing the sincere hope that he gets well soon.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I have a question for the Senator from Oklahoma about his amendment. I am wondering if there is anything in his amendment that would correct one problem I see in the bill, which is that it occurs to me, if that a steel company, for example, has an existing loan with some private bank--once this program goes into effect and that loan is in bad shape, the bank can encourage that steel company to apply for a new loan under this program and get that Federal guarantee, and thereby you are transferring that risk, or at least 85 percent of it, from that bank that otherwise would take the hit to the taxpayers. 
   Is there anything in the amendment that the Senator knows of, or anything in the original bill, that would prevent that kind of shenanigan? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. What about if there is a loan out there to one of the small oil and gas companies, and the president and owner of the company have personally guaranteed the loan? Would 
   they be in a position now, with this new loan program, to apply for a new loan under this type of guarantee program, get that new loan issued, and replace their personal guarantees with the Government guarantees so the owners and major shareholders, who could be very wealthy individuals, would be taken off the hook by the taxpayers? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I will speak for a moment on this issue which has been of great concern to me. As many of you know, I come from a banking background. Bankers manage trust funds. I come from a business background where businesses, as you know, manage their employees' pension funds. 
   Congress has passed laws that make it illegal for any business man or woman in the private sector to reach into an employee's pension fund, take the money out, and spend it on some other program. 
   A few years back Congress passed laws making it illegal for State and local governments to plunder the pension funds of their employees. But during all this time, where Congress has put these laws on the books and made it illegal in the private sector and at the State and local government level to plunder pension funds, we have gone on and on in Washington taking all the money that goes into the Social Security trust fund, taking every dime of it out, and spending it on some other program. 
   As a result, as I speak now on the Senate floor, there is no money in the Social Security trust fund. All of it has been taken out and spent on other programs. They have put meaningless, nonmarketable, nonnegotiable securities in the Social Security trust fund, securities that have no economic value because they cannot be sold to raise cash. 
   Right now our Government is building up, theoretically, surpluses in the Social Security trust fund, but they are taking all that money out and spending it. So when we actually need it to pay benefits, beginning in the year 2014, there will be no money there. No matter what the balance of those bogus IOUs is in the Social Security trust fund, in the year 2014--whether that balance is $1 trillion or $5 trillion--they are of no assistance in paying benefits to those who depend on Social Security. The country will either have to raise taxes or cut benefits to make up for the shortfall that is anticipated after the year 2014. 
   This legislation is basic, decent common sense. We should not allow Congress to continue frittering away the Social Security trust fund. I urge all my colleagues to support it and end this outrageous practice of plundering the Social Security trust fund, to the detriment of our Nation's seniors and those who will be desiring to live on Social Security benefits in the next century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, today I rise to submit a resolution condemning the arrest and detention of 13 Iranian Jews accused of espionage. 
   In April of this year, 13 rabbis and religious leaders were arrested at their homes in the Iranian cities of Shiraz and Isfahan. According to the Israeli newspaper, Ha'aretz, the names of the detainees are David Tefilin, Doni Tefilin, Javid Beth Jacob, Farhad Seleh, Nasser Levi Haim, Asher Zadmehror, Navid Balazadeh, Nejat Beroukkhim, Aarash Beroukhim, Farzad Kashi, Faramaz Kashi, Shahrokh Pak Nahad, and Ramin (last name unknown). They have remained imprisoned since the time of their arrest, without charge, under accusation of spying for the United States and Israel, although they have no apparent ties to any type of espionage. Both the United States and Israel have dismissed the charges as false, denying any connection to the detainees. In addition to the United States, Israel, and Germany have denounced these arrests and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright as well as Joschka Fischer, the German Foreign Minister, have called for their release. 
   Iran's treatment of its Jewish residents in recent years has been deplorable, forcing half of its Jews to flee the country. In the past five years alone, five Jews have been executed by Iranian authorities, without the fundamental right of a trial. In 1997, Iran hanged two people convicted of spying,  an event that emphasizes the extreme importance of timely action on the matter of these 13 detainees. Espionage is punishable by death in Iran, so the lives of these 13 people need our support and protection. The Iranian government's actions are deplorable and fly in the face of justice. This resolution condemns the arrests and calls upon Iran to release these 13 people immediately and without harm.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the 55th anniversary of the Allied invasion at Normandy. On June 6, 1944, courageous members of our Armed Forces defended the world from assaults against humanity. During that misty and chilly day, 156,000 Allied soldiers crossed the English channel in one of history's greatest military operations. Every soldier, every sailor, and every airman united to challenge the injustices that terrorized and enslaved Europe. With soldiers from other Allied nations, American soldiers stormed the beaches, bombed enemy encampments, fought in the front lines, and ensured Europe's liberation. 
   When the paratroopers descended from the dark skies and the soldiers charged forward from the churning seas, the tide of the war changed. While we salute those who returned from this battle and World War II to enjoy the world they liberated, we also remember those who never came home. On D-Day alone, 2,500 of our GIs gave their lives for the hope of a better tomorrow. When the Allied forces defeated Nazi Germany 11 months later, it was reaffirmed that they did not die in vain. 
   These dedicated Americans secured the future and freedoms that we now enjoy. All Americans are forever in debt to the members of our Armed Services, past and present, who put their lives on the line to guarantee our freedom.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, in the past, American presidents have argued that a congressional appropriation for U.S. military action abroad constitutes a congressional authorization for the military action. I will not vote for an authorization of money that may be construed as authorizing, or encouraging the expansion of, the President's military operations in Kosovo. I will oppose the appropriation of almost $11 billion for a war I have consistently spoken out against. 
   On March 23, I voted against President Clinton's decision to launch the air campaign in Yugoslovia. On May 4, I voted against a resolution that would have given the President blanket authority to expand the operation. To date, I have not been convinced that this war is necessary to protect a vital national security interest, and I have opposed efforts to escalate the conflict. 
   I have a number of secondary considerations with respect to this legislation. I am concerned, for one, about plundering the Social Security trust funds to pay for a war that involves no vital national security interest. If I believed that vital national security interests were at stake, I would consider the argument to fund the war from the Social Security trust fund surplus. But in the absence of a vital national security interest, I do not believe the Congress should pay for the war out of the Social Security trust funds. 
   I am also concerned about some of the anti-environmental riders added to the emergency supplemental bill in conference. These provisions should have been fully debated, and should have gone through the normal legislative process, instead of being slipped into the bill in the dead of night. 
   I am disappointed that I can't support this bill, because it contains funding for farmers hit by low commodity prices. Some of this is funding that I've argued for and, in fact, voted for in earlier instances, including S. 544. But my opposition to funding the military action in Kosovo is firm. I can endorse neither the authorization for the war, nor the appropriations process that is its genesis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today in support of S. Con. Res. 19, a resolution condemning growing Russian anti-Semitism. 
   Russian anti-Semitism, is nothing new in the world. Throughout Russian history, Jews have faced attacks in the form of pogroms, forced military duty for terms of up to 25 years, and a general pattern of persecution and discrimination. With the end of the Soviet Union and the rise of democracy in Russia, we thought these kinds of acts were a part of the past. Unfortunately, they are not. 
   On Saturday, May 1, there were two bomb blasts at two Moscow synagogues, one at Moscow's main Choral Synagogue. There was light damage at both sites, yet the bombings on the Sabbath and on May 1, ``May Day'' was a scary development. 
   These violent acts, combined with the various statements issued by Communist members of the Russian Duma can only serve to stir up increased violence. This is extremely unfortunate. 
   There is no place for violence and hatred in our society. We in Congress and the rest of the world must actively condemn this violence and hatred before it gets out of hand, as has been the case all too many times in this century. Thank you Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today along with my colleagues, Senators GRASSLEY, ROBERTS, and ASHCROFT, to submit a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the next round of agricultural trade negotiations. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I am very concerned about U.S. agriculture's position in the next round of negotiations. This resolution establishes clear direction to the Administration as it enters the Seattle negotiations this November. 
   These process and procedural guidelines have been developed through a consensus process of the Seattle Round Agricultural Committee (SRAC). SRAC represents over 70 agricultural organizations--from the Farm Bureau to the National Oilseed Processors Association of Kraft Foods. This diverse group of agriculturalists have spent many hours developing these principles to ensure that our international agriculture markets remain strong, open and fair for our nation's farmers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, twice, the Senate has failed to invoke cloture on the Social Security Lock Box. I am a cosponsor of this important amendment and I encourage all of my colleagues to join me in support for a Social Security lock box. 
   For several years, Congress has taken all the money out of the Social Security Trust Fund and spent it on other programs. In fact, through the end of last year, Congress has taken over $730 billion out of the trust fund and spent it all on other programs. 
   I believe that it is wrong to spend Social Security Trust Fund money on other programs. If a private corporation were to take money out of an employees' pension plan and spend it on something else, the executives of that corporation would, under Congress' own laws, be subject to prosecution and imprisonment. Why do we allow Congress to raid Social Security, the pension fund for all Americans? 
   Each time our government takes money out of the Social Security Trust Funds, it incurs a debt to these funds. To date, the government has incurred total debts of over $730 billion to the Social Security Trust Funds. The debts owed to these funds are included in the calculation of our total national debt which now stands at roughly $5.5 trillion. This debt, along with the program's massive unfunded liabilities, will ultimately have to be paid by future taxpayers. 
   The lock box proposal would ban Congress from spending Social Security Trust Fund monies on other programs (unless there is a super-majority vote to do so). Those who oppose the lockbox proposal want to continue spending Social Security Trust Funds on other new and unrelated programs. 
   While I believe that we need to take other steps to protect Social Security, I nevertheless believe that this lockbox provision is an important first step in ensuring the long-term fiscal health of our nation. By making it more difficult to spend Social Security Trust Funds on other programs, we will make it easier for ourselves to meet our obligation to Social Security in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, last week, high school students from across the United States came to Washington, D.C. to compete in the national finals of the ``We the People ..... The Citizen and the Constitution'' program. These young scholars worked diligently to reach the national finals and through their experience have gained a deep knowledge and understanding of the fundamental principles and values of our constitutional democracy. I am proud to announce that the class from Maine South High School from Park Ridge, Illinois won the competition. 
   The ``We the People ..... The Citizen and the Constitution'' program is designed to educate young people about the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. The three-day national competition is modeled after hearings in the United States Congress. These hearings consist of oral presentations by high school students before a panel of expert judges. The students testify as constitutional experts before a ``congressional committee,'' that is, a panel of judges representing various regions in the country and a cross-section of professional fields. The student testimony is followed by a period of questioning during which the judges quiz students for their depth of understanding and their ability to apply their constitutional knowledge. 
   I congratulate all the student teams who made it to the national finals. Each of those young people took the time to truly learn about our Constitution and Bill of Rights. In return, they got the opportunity to come to Washington and to meet other students from around the country. I applaud their efforts and initiative. 
   I am particularly proud that the winning team is from Maine South High School in Park Ridge, Illinois. Led by their teacher, Patton Feichter, the students won the three day competition to become national champions. At a time when so much of our attention is focused on youth violence, it is particularly refreshing to congratulate an outstanding group of young people who worked very hard to achieve their goals. I congratulate the students, parents, and Maine South faculty members on all their hard work to win the competition.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, It is my pleasure to recognize an outstanding public high school in my home state of illinois. I, along with Senator DICK DURBIN, want to congratulate Lincoln Park High School, a public high school in Chicago, Illinois, on its 100th anniversary this year. 
   Throughout its history, Lincoln Park High School has been a model for other public schools in its single minded pursuit of excellence. I'd like to share with you some of the history of this terrific school. Lincoln Park is the oldest continually-used public high school in the Chicago Public School system. Since its opening in 1899, more than 100,000 students have passed through the doors of Lincoln Park High and benefitted from the classes and extracurricular activities offered. Additionally, Lincoln Park High has created an atmosphere of academic excellence and produced many Illinois State Scholars and National Merit Scholars. It is ranked consistently among the top high schools in test scores and other measures of academic achievement. The school's strive to excel is readily apparent with the establishment of rigorous academic programs such as the ``Access to Excellence'' magnet program and the International Baccalaureate Program, a program available only in selected schools. The outstanding academic success of Lincoln Park High School prompted President Ronald Reagan to praise the school publicly in 1984. 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce this resolution with my colleague, Senator DURBIN, and congratulate the faculty, staff and students who attend Lincoln Park High School on their 100th anniversary. They should be very proud of this tremendous accomplishment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to streamline the process our farmers follow when filing paper work with the Department of Agriculture (USDA). Currently, when farmers are required to fill out USDA paper work, they are required to travel to their local USDA county offices, complete the paper work, wait in long lines and file these documents in paper form. This process is very inefficient and time consuming. 
   The bill that I introduce today simply requires USDA to develop a system for farmers to access and file this paper work over the internet. This legislation entitled the ``Freedom to E-file Act'' simply makes good common sense. As our society has become more technologically advanced so have our farmers. In fact, a 1998 Novartis survey found that over 72 percent of all farmers with 500 acres or more had personal computers. Overall, over fifty percent of all farmers surveyed had computers. 
   Our agriculturalists use computers not only for financial management and market information but for sophisticated precision agriculture management systems. These sophisticated small business owners could easily file necessary farm program paperwork from their homes and offices if only this option was available. 
   Farmers are often frustrated with the long lines at county USDA offices, especially during their most hectic times such as harvest season. Our nation's farmers are clearly overburdened by government-required paperwork. This bill is the first step in the right direction toward regulatory reform for our U.S. food producers. 
   This legislation is budget neutral and USDA would implement the bill using existing funds. I want to recognize and commend my colleague, Congressman RAY LAHOOD, for championing the companion to this bill in the House of Representatives. This bill should enjoy bipartisan support. I urge my colleagues to join me in co-sponsoring this bill important to our nation's farmers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Holocaust Era Assets Tax Exclusion Act of 1999, along with my colleagues Senators MOYNIHAN and SCHUMER. Mr. President, survivors of the Holocaust who had assets withheld from them by Swiss banks or others have finally received justice in the form of a settlement between the banks and the survivor's attorneys in August 1998. The settlement was for $1.25 billion for survivors worldwide. This settlement will finally return the assets to survivors more than fifty years after they first entrusted them to the banks. 
   In addition to these recipients, there are survivors who are needy and have received one-time payments from the Swiss Humanitarian Fund established by the Swiss government. In both cases, any payment from the Swiss banks or other similar sources like this, should be excluded from taxation because they are receiving back what was rightfully theirs to begin with. The sum total of payments coming to the needy Holocaust survivors in the United States from this fund is $31.4 million. 
   Moreover, funds are being established by banks and corporations in France, Austria, Italy, and Germany to compensate claimants for wrongfully held bank deposits, insurance policies, slave labor, and other losses. 
   Survivors who have sued banks, insurance companies, and manufacturers which profited from slave labor during the Holocaust, did so because there was no other way for them to seek justice. Deprived of their assets, or those of their families for over fifty years, survivors fought unsuccessfully until now to receive what belonged to them. 
   With the average age of Holocaust survivors at 80, there is little time for debate over these payments which will ease life for the survivors in their final years. To tax them for the long overdue receipt of assets would be wrong and immoral. What these survivors will receive from the various funds will be money that is rightfully theirs in the first place. 
   The survivors of man's greatest inhumanity to man deserve justice. After escaping death at the hands of the Nazis, they were again victimized by European bankers and insurers. Those who endured the tortures of slave labor have never been compensated for their servitude to the Nazis. Now that they have received some measure of justice, let us not make them wait any longer for what is rightfully theirs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a sense of the Senate amendment to the budget resolution, S. Con. Res. 20. 
   As we prepare to work on this year's federal budget, everyone seems to be talking about what we should and should not do with the Social Security trust funds. There is a growing understanding that the federal government mixes the revenues of the Social Security trust fund in with the revenues of the general fund in order to cover-up continuing annual deficits. What many people may not know is that the government does the same thing with over 150 other trust funds, mixing them all in with the general fund. 
   The ``surpluses'' now being talked about are entirely fictitious, the result of misleading and deceptive accounting practices. The ``surpluses'' disappear once borrowing from the Social Security trust funds ($121.9 billion in the current fiscal year) and borrowing from all other trust funds ($67.9 billion in the current fiscal year) are subtracted. That's why the national debt will rise by $395.6 billion between FY 1998 and FY 2004. 
   I believe it is wrong for our government to use deceptive accounting practices. I believe it is wrong to encourage the perception that we are running annual surpluses, when in fact we are continuing to run annual deficits and continuing to add to the national debt. Anyone in the private sector who engaged in similar practices would, by our own laws, be subjected to prosecution and imprisonment. Why do we allow the government to use accounting shell games that would be illegal anywhere else? 
   To provide a more accurate picture of our country's financial situation to the American people, I have this amendment to the Budget Resolution. This Sense of the Senate amendment states that the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office should separate the revenues of all government trust funds from the general fund and report the budget deficit or surplus when all trust funds are excluded. 
   This is an incremental first step toward changing the way Congress and the President budget and spend taxpayer money. 
   I ask for your support in this effort to provide truthful budget numbers to the American people. This amendment is, in my judgment, completely non-partisan. It makes no pre-judgments about tax cuts or spending increases. Instead, it simply seeks to expose a deceptive accounting practice long used by our federal government. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, I rise to urge the passage of my Sense of the Senate amendment to the budget resolution, S. Con. Res. 20. This amendment will require truth-in-budgeting with respect to the on-budget trust funds. 
   There is a growing understanding that the federal government mixes the revenues of the Social Security trust fund in with the revenues of the general fund in order to cover-up continuing annual deficits. What many people may not know is that the government does the same thing with over 150 other trust funds, mixing them all in with the general fund. 
   I believe it is wrong for our government to use deceptive accounting practices. I believe it is wrong to encourage the perception that we are running annual surpluses, when in fact we are continuing to run annual deficits and continuing to add to the national debt. Anyone in the private sector who engaged in similar practices would, by our own laws, be subjected to prosecution and imprisonment. Why do we allow the government to use accounting shell games that would be illegal anywhere else? 
   To provide a more accurate picture of our country's financial situation to the American people, I have offered this amendment to the Budget Resolution. This Sense of the Senate amendment states that the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office should separate the revenues of all government trust funds from the general fund and report the budget deficit or surplus when all trust funds are excluded. 
   I ask for your support in this effort to provide truthful budget numbers to the American people. This amendment is, in my judgement, completely non-partisan. It makes no pre-judgements about tax cuts or spending increases. Instead, it simply seeks to expose a deceptive accounting practice long used by our federal government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, school violence is a horrible, senseless tragedy that must not continue. Last year's horrific shootings in Jonesboro, AR; Pakucah, KY; Pearl, MS; Richmond, VA; and Edinboro, PA, were meaningless acts of violence and should never have occurred. That's why I wholeheartedly support and have cosponsored National School Violence Victims Memorial Day. This important resolution recognizes victims of school violence and encourages school administrators to conduct programs on March 24 designed to help prevent further occurrences of school violence. 
   Mr. President, the statistics on school violence are truly frightening. According to the National School Safety Center, there have been 225 school-associated violent deaths between July 1992 and June 1998. What is going on in our classrooms that our Nation's youth feel like the only way to resolve problems is through a gun? This resolution recognizes victims of school violence and says to our children, that there is a better way to resolve problems. By focusing community efforts on teaching students peaceful alternatives to conflict, we can equip our children to stop violent tendencies before they get out of control. This resolution is a step in the right direction and I urge my colleagues to put partisan politics aside and join me in encouraging local school districts and administrators to use their resources on violence prevention programs. All of us--teachers, administrators, parents--must work together to show our children peaceful alternatives before violence erupts in our schools again.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, yes, I would like to speak to Senator ABRAHAM's amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-2-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I rise to speak in favor of Senator ABRAHAM's amendment to ban our Government from continuing to plunder the Social Security trust funds. For many years, our Government has taken all of the money that goes into the Social Security trust funds, taken every cent and spent it on other programs. The fact of the matter is, there is now no money in the Social Security trust fund. There is just a pile of IOUs, and those IOUs do our country no good when we hit 2013 and Social Security taxes are insufficient to pay current benefits. 
   Come 2013, no matter what the balance of IOUs is in the Social Security trust fund, we are either going to have to cut benefits or raise taxes or dramatically increase our Government's borrowings in order to pay Social Security benefits. I applaud Senator DOMENICI, Senator ABRAHAM, and those who are working to ban our Government from plundering the Social Security trust fund. 
   I want to show the Senate what the President's budget projections are for the next few years and to raise some questions about those projections. 
   The President claims the budget will be in surplus through the year 2004 and is suggesting in the current fiscal year we will have a $79.3 billion surplus; next year, $117 billion; rising to a surplus of $207 billion in 2004. 
   There is a problem with this. As some may have noticed, our national debt is continuing to grow despite these proposed budget surpluses. 
   In fact, if you look at the appendix to President Clinton's budget, which he claims is going to be in surplus from now until 2004, if you look in the back, you will find that our national debt is going to continue to rise. 
   I ask the Members of this body, Does it make any sense for our national debt to continue to rise when we have surpluses? How can our national debt rise if we have surpluses? Well, the answer to that question is, we do not really have surpluses. They are borrowing all of this money from the Social Security trust fund. 
   If you look back in history, we have borrowed $1.67 trillion from Government trust funds. And to date, as of the end of the last fiscal year, our Government had borrowed $730 billion from the Social Security trust fund. All that money that people all across the country have been paying for years in Social Security taxes, they knew some of it was going out to pay current benefits, but they also thought some of it was being set aside in a trust fund. 
   It turns out they have plundered that trust fund. There is no money in it except a bunch of IOUs. And when we borrow from these trust funds, it gets added to our national debt. So right now, people in this country are being told that we are running surpluses, but what they are not being told is that we are continuing to borrow from Social Security and other trust funds and that we are digging our hole deeper. We are making the national debt worse. 
   These are the amounts the President proposes to continue borrowing from the Social Security trust fund in his budget which makes projections out through 2004. This year he proposes borrowing $121 billion from the Social Security trust fund and $67 billion from other trust funds. That is the source of the surplus they have. But when you take that out, if you had an honest accounting, if the Government were not allowed to use deceptive accounting practices, it would be forced to show that, in fact, there is an ongoing deficit. 
   In any case, I applaud Senator ABRAHAM. He is absolutely on the right track. We need to protect the Social Security trust fund. That Social Security trust fund lockbox idea that Senator DOMENICI has worked on with many others is worthy of our pursuit. This is the only plan out there that will protect 100 percent of the Social Security trust fund. 
   I come from a banking background. For many years I worked in banking in my home State of Illinois. There is nothing more abhorrent to me than the notion of a trust fund being managed by the Government that is being raided by the Government. In our law in the private sector, the highest burden is imposed upon those who manage trust funds. Anybody who plundered a trust fund in the private sector would be sent off to prison. Any private employer in the United States who reached into their employees' pension fund and took all that money out and spent it on other programs would, under Congress' own laws, go to jail. 
   It is high time that Congress stop itself from raiding the Nation's pension funds, from raiding Social Security, and instead try to save the money that is going in there; do not spend it on other programs; do not touch it but treat it like a real trust fund. And I am delighted that we have made this effort. I think it will be a great fundamental breakthrough. 
   I applaud Senator DOMENICI and look forward to working with the rest of the Members of the Senate to achieve this very 
   important goal. 
   Mr. President, thank you very much. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, as my colleagues know, a tragic accident occurred in Bourbonnais, Illinois on Monday night when an Amtrak passenger train, the City of New Orleans, collided with a tractor trailer carrying steel rods. According to the National Transportation Safety Board, NTSB, a crew of 18 people and 196 passengers were aboard the City of New Orleans when the accident occurred. 
   Eleven people lost their lives in the accident, NTSB officials report. I wish to convey my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and all others who have been touched by this tragedy. Illinois grieves with you. 
   I would also like to recognize the dedication of the local and State officials and citizens who have prevented this tragedy from becoming even worse. Local citizens worked through the night and into the early morning to locate victims, free them from the wreckage, and treat their injuries. Public safety officials from Bourbonnais, and from the communities and counties surrounding it, worked above and beyond the call of duty to save lives, rescue survivors, and prevent further harm from occurring. 
   Additionally, Federal officials from the Department of Transportation, the National Transportation Safety Board, the Highway Administration, the Railroad Administration, and Health and Human Services have traveled to Illinois to lend their expertise in the aftermath of this horrible accident. 
   And finally, nonprofit organizations like the American Red Cross have also served the victims, families, and friends associated with this accident. At times like this we remember the fragility of human life, and recognize the magnanimity of the human spirit. We commend the many volunteers and officials involved with the city of New Orleans accident. Their dedication to the welfare of those injured will be remembered in perpetuity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today as an original cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 5, a resolution expressing opposition to a unilateral declaration of a Palestinian state. I am proud to join my colleagues in supporting this resolution 
   We cannot allow the work of the past several years to be swept away by unilateral acts such as that threatened by Yasser Arafat. President Arafat has threatened to declare a Palestinian state by May 4, 1999 if there is no further progress in the Peace Process. 
   Mr. President, this act, in defiance of the Oslo Peace agreements signed by the late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Mr. Arafat, can only destabilize the region. It would no doubt precipitate further acts and the entire Peace Process, as precarious as it is, could be shattered. 
   The only true path to peace is through negotiation with Israel. There is no other way to achieve a satisfactory conclusion to this one-hundred-year conflict. With the passage of this resolution Congress sends the message that if Yasser Arafat declares a Palestinian state on May 4, the United States should not recognize the validity of the declaration and Congress will strongly oppose it. 
   Mr. President, if there is to be peace between Israel and the Palestinians, it will be accomplished through peaceful negotiations between the two parties, not through unilateral acts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. As a freshman Senator, I am saddened that the first issue I confront in my service to the people of Illinois is the impeachment of a President of the United States. It is difficult to imagine a task less welcome and more awesome to me. As a newly elected Senator, I have barely begun to know the Senate, my colleagues, our rules and procedures, our precedents, or, finally, even our duty. I have watched you all so carefully--looking for examples, and guidance--and wondering at the gravity of these days. 
   On a personal note, before I begin, I want to thank those on both sides of the aisle--Senators who, in difficult days, have been so gracious to a newcomer. Thank you for taking the time, and making the effort, to welcome the newest among you. Through these hours, I have developed a deep respect for my new colleagues, for the Senate as an institution, and for the Constitution that has anchored our Republic for over two hundred years. I thank God for the wisdom of the Framers, and their ability to construct enduring institutions that allow us to confront, peacefully, the question of whether our President should be removed from office. We now come to the conclusion of this Constitutional process, itself an extraordinary example of the rule of law that makes our nation the envy of the world. 
   The people of Illinois have entrusted me with the duty to uphold the Constitution, a duty I share with all of you. In addition, we share the responsibility of abiding by the separate oath which we took in this proceeding to ``do impartial justice according to the Constitution and the laws.'' 
   As a trier of fact and law, I find that the President has committed perjury and obstruction of justice as charged in the two Articles of Impeachment, and that those offenses constitute ``high crimes and misdemeanors.'' I will vote for conviction on both counts. 
   I reach this decision after detailed examination of the evidence presented, the arguments of counsel, Senate precedents, and the impeachment clause of the Constitution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, today I want to recognize National Appreciation Day for Catholic Schools, a day to acknowledge the important and valuable contributions Catholic schools make to our nation's children, to local communities, and to the nation. Nationally, there are over 7.6 million students in 8,200 Catholic schools. In my home state of Illinois, there are over 215,000 students in 598 Catholic schools. In addition, I am a product of Catholic education, having attended Catholic schools for both elementary and high school.  
   Last year, 40 Catholic secondary schools were awarded the Excellence in Education Award, the nation's highest honor in education, by the U.S. Department of Education. In my home state, Boyland Catholic High School in Rockford, Illinois, was awarded the Excellence in Education Award for outstanding educational achievement. 
   Two students from St. Patrick School in Ottawa, Illinois, Justyna and Alexsandra Ratajczak, wrote me about how much they enjoy going to Catholic school. Justyna wrote that St. Patrick School ``is like a second home for me and I can not imagine my world without it.'' This girl's love of school testifies to the fact that Catholic schools are doing something right. Mr. President, I applaud Catholic schools and all their outstanding teachers for their high success rate among students and thank them for their important contribution to educating America's youth.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-fitzgerald-il-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. President, I rise today to join with Senator DICK DURBIN, my distinguished colleague from Illinois, in introducing S. Res. 23, commending Michael Jordan on his retirement from the Chicago Bulls and the National Basketball Association. 
   For thirteen years, Michael Jordan has entertained the people of Chicago with his performance on the basketball court. The six championships he brought to Chicago have been a great source of pride and unity for the citizens of Illinois. His accomplishments are many, including ten scoring titles, five Most Valuable Player awards, and twelve All-Star Game appearances. He was also the first player to win the MVP and Defensive Player of the Year awards in the same year, which he did in 1988. In addition, he was named the NBA's Rookie of the Year in the 1984-85 season. 
   I offer my congratulations to Michael Jordan on all of his accomplishments, and wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.  
   I thank the Senate for its swift passage of this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

