<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise tonight to express my deep disappointment that this final package does not include a provision that allows Liberian nationals living in this country to adjust to permanent residency. 
   As I have told this body many times, approximately 10,000 Liberians fled to the United States beginning in 1989 when their country became engulfed in a civil war. In 1991, Attorney General Barr granted Liberians Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and renewed it in 1992. Under the Clinton administration, Attorney General Reno continued to renew TPS for Liberians on an annual basis until last year when she granted Deferred Enforced Departure. DED was renewed again this year. 
   While Liberians can now legally live in the United States for another year, it does not change the fact that they have lived in limbo for almost a decade. The Liberians have lived in a ``protected status'' longer than any other group in the history of this country. These individuals have played by the rules. From the beginning, they have always lived in this country legally. They have established careers, opened businesses, bought homes, had American-born children, and contributed to our communities. Yet, they are unable to enjoy the basic rights and privileges of U.S. citizenship. These people deserve better. 
   For several years I have been working to see that the Liberians receive the justice they deserve. In March 1999, I introduced S. 656, the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act which would allow Liberian nationals who had received TPS to adjust to permanent residency. For almost two years I have been unable to convince my colleagues to hold a hearing, debate this issue on the floor, or pass the bill. I did everything I believed was necessary to garner support for this legislation. I spoke on the floor, I wrote ``Dear Colleagues'', I gathered cosponsors on both sides of the aisle, I spoke personally with the leadership of both parties and the White House. Despite these efforts, the plight of the Liberians has not been recognized and their status has not been resolved. 
   The situation facing the Liberians is not a novel issue for Congress. In the time that the Liberians have lived in this country, several other immigrant groups, including 52,000 Chinese, 4,996 Poles, 200,000 El Salvadorans, 50,000 Guatemalans and 150,000 Nicaraguans, who lived in the U.S. under temporary protective status for far less time have been allowed to adjust to permanent status. Just last month we passed a bill adjusting the status of 4,000 Syrian Jews. There are those who have argued that it is time to stop passing ``nation specific'' immigration fixes and to implement a system that is comprehensive and fair. I fully agree. But until we reach that point and are ready to pass such legislation, I do not believe that we can, in good conscious, arbitrarily deny certain groups a remedy for the unintended and unjust consequences of our immigration law. 
   I would also like to state that I believe that we have a special obligation to the Liberians because of the special ties the U.S. has with that country. Congress should honor the special relationship that has always existed between the United States and Liberia. In 1822, groups of freed slaves from the U.S. began to settle on the coast of Western Africa with the assistance of private American philanthropic organizations at the behest of the U.S. government. In 1847, these settlers established the republic of Liberia, the first independent country in Africa. Liberians modeled their constitution after the U.S. and named their capital Monrovia after President James Monroe. Mr. President, many of the Liberian nationals in this country can trace their ancestry to American slaves. We owe them more than we are giving them tonight. 
   When Liberians arrived in this country, they expected to stay only a short time and to return home once it was safe. But one year turned into many and they moved on with their lives. They are now part of our community. They deserve the same benefits that we have given so many others--the rights of citizenship. It is my hope that we can address this grievous situation early in the 107th Congress. We need to right a wrong. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that I hope will help states which have been stricken by managed care plan failures to overcome the devastating effects of such an event on the health insurance sector. 
   Over the past several years, we have seen an alarming upswing in the number of HMO failures across the nation. According to Weiss Rating, Inc., the nation's only provider of financial safety ratings for HMO's, the number of HMO failures grew 78 percent between 1998 and 1999. Furthermore, Weiss found another 10 HMO's were at high risk of failure due to mounting losses and capital deficits. The growing financial instability we are seeing in the managed care market has serious ramifications for state insurance regulators, not to mention hundreds of thousands of Americans who rely on these plans for their health care. 
   In light of this volatility in the health insurance market, I believe that the Federal Government can be a constructive and stabilizing force for states dealing with the aftermath of an HMO liquidation. The legislation I am introducing today would create a mechanism that would provide an added layer of protection for providers and subscribers when a participant in the health insurance market fails. Specifically, the bill establishes an HMO Guaranty Fund, which would be used to pay outstanding health care providers' claims for uncovered expenditures and to fulfill contractual obligations made prior to an HMO's bankruptcy. For those families left without health insurance, the fund would also subsidize temporary coverage for subscribers as they seek alternative sources of health insurance. 
   Many states have responded to a health plan insolvency and the unpaid bills they leave behind by creating a temporary fund designed to at least partially reimburse hospitals and providers for the expenses incurred during the course of providing care to patients. These guaranty funds are typically financed by levying a fairly sizable fee on the remaining health insurers in the state. While this may work in some cases, it is not necessarily appropriate in every circumstance. In other words, not every health care provider and subscriber has the opportunity to access this kind of guaranty fund. 
   For instance, when Harvard Pilgrim Health Plan of New England failed in my home state of Rhode Island, there was discussion of setting up just such a fund. However, the extremely small size of our insurance market and the few plans that remained in operation simply could not support a bailout of this magnitude. Fortunately, the Rhode Island Insurance regulator was able to reach an agreement with the Massachusetts parent organization of Harvard Pilgrim to pay outstanding provider and hospital claims. Unfortunately, other States might not be as lucky. 
   It is my view that the Federal Government may be better positioned than an individual State to spread the risk and the premiums required to subsidize the fund across health insurance plans operating around the country. Furthermore, it would also enable both ERISA and non-ERISA plans to be covered under a nationally-based standing fund. 
   I hope the legislation I am introducing today will mark the beginning of an ongoing discussion that will explore some of the issues surrounding the financial health of HMO's in this Nation. In closing, Mr. President, while it is unlikely that action will be taken on this legislation late in the session. I look forward to working with interested organizations as well as my colleagues to strengthen and enhance the legislation I submit today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, thank you very much. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to first commend my colleague, friend, Senator REID from Nevada, for not only his statement but his leadership in this body to try to move the process along. Unfortunately, we have reached an impasse. 
   We have sent to the President an appropriations bill for the Commerce- State-Justice Departments which will be vetoed because of glaring deficiencies in that bill. 
   We are holding in abeyance for the moment a conference report which not only deals with Medicare readjustments because of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, but also contains provisions dealing with assisted suicide--a hodgepodge of issues, all of which will, once again, elicit a Presidential veto. 
   Let me just speak for a moment about this pending bill, although in some respects it defies description. It is more of an accumulation of different ideas thrown together to get out of town. But part of it deals with Medicare and balanced budget refinement proposals. 
   All of us in this body for the last several years have been pointing out some of the consequences--many of then unintended--of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 with respect to Medicare reimbursement in an effort to make sure that our health care system continues to be vibrant and continues to be sustainable. And we are resolved to try to address these issues and in a bipartisan way. 
   But we have found ourselves with a very partisan approach--an approach that has not included any of my Democratic colleagues on the Finance Committee, and has included no real participation by the Democrats in this body at all with respect to issues that are of concern to all of us which should be dealt with on a bipartisan basis. 
   As a result, we are faced with legislation that comes to us which is terribly distorted and terribly slanted, and which will not deal with the real crisis we face. In fact, many health care providers, such as hospitals, home health care agencies, hospice agencies, nursing homes, and others are literally  being shortchanged in the process where a significant and inordinate amount of money is going to HMOs that operate Medicare managed care plans. 
   These are the same HMOs that abruptly, in many cases, withdrew from the market because they could not make their margins--that walked out on seniors. And, in effect, we are rewarding them for abandoning seniors and walking away from them by giving them a huge amount of money with the presumption, of course, that this money will be passed on to the providers who care for our elderly and disabled. That is not the case at all. 
   With respect to the not-for-profit HMOs, their first instincts will be to build up their reserves and continue to negotiate very tough reimbursements with hospitals and nursing homes. In some cases, they are the only game in town. They can go to a hospital or a nursing home or a home health agency, and say: These are the terms--take it or leave it. But their goal will not be simply passing on the generosity of the Federal Government to providers--the people actually giving the care. It will be to enhance their own financial positions by continuing to put aside money for the proverbial rainy day. 
   When it comes to the for-profit HMOs, their incentive is not only to enhance their financial position because that is what enhances their stock price in the market, but also to provide 
   dividends to their shareholders. After all, they are profit-making enterprises. 
   I think it is entirely fallacious to believe that by simply giving money to HMOs for seniors, with no accountability and no requirements, they will in return provide coverage. Simply giving them the money is the wrong way to ensure that our seniors and disabled receive adequate health care. 
   That is precisely the path that has been chosen in this partisan Republican legislation that we will see in the days ahead. 
   We would like to see Medicare managed care plans succeed. We would like to see that happen. But we can't simply wish by giving them money that they will change the practices they have pursued over the last several years. 
   When they looked at the situation, when they thought they were not getting the kind of return and the kind of profits they should in these programs, they simply walked away. 
   Yet we are not requiring them even with this great infusion of money to commit to stay the course for our seniors. It is the wrong approach. 
   The right approach--the approach that was advocated very forcefully by my colleagues on the Finance Committee on the Democratic side--is to provide additional reimbursements and additional support for the actual providers--the hospitals, the hospice agencies, and home health agencies--all of the agencies that are struggling just to stay afloat and to stay viable. 
   In particular, we have seen over the course of the last several years with respect to home health agencies that many have gone out of business because of severe cuts in the reimbursements. We originally estimated that $16.1 billion would be saved over five years. It turns out that we have already saved $19. 7 billion in just two years and are on track to save four times what we originally projected. It is about time to put the money back in to these important activities. 
   Yet, that is not what this bill would do. As I mentioned before, this conference report contains several last minute additions coming from the outfield, including the misnamed Pain Relief Promotion Act, which is an attempt to undercut the legislation and the will of the people of Oregon with respect to the very sensitive issue of assisted suicide. 
   I strongly disapprove of assisted suicide. I am pleased that my State of Rhode Island has, in fact, adopted legislation that outlaws this practice but still makes the prescription of drugs by physicians for the purposes of alleviating pain a medical matter and not a law enforcement matter. 
   The fallacy of the approach embodied in the Pain Relief Promotion Act is to take the Drug Enforcement Agency and make it the arbiter of good medical practice. I can't think of a more inappropriate combination of institutions and functions than that. But that has been thrown into the mix in this conference report. 
   We have been endeavoring over many months to come up with bipartisan solutions to these issues of Medicare reimbursement and of the restoration of funds that were cut in 1997 under the Balanced Budget Act. But it has come to naught so far. 
   I hope that in the next few days in anticipation of a Presidential veto there will be a second or third or fourth look at these issues and we can try to deal with them in a thoughtful and constructive way. 
   One particular issue is the fact that we face a further 15-percent reduction in home health care reimbursement rates, which is currently scheduled to take effect in October of 2001. 
   We already know that these agencies cannot sustain such a further reduction. But the only thing that this bill does is temporarily delay it for another year. 
   I have joined with many of my colleagues, including Senator COLLINS of Maine, to suggest the elimination of this 15-percent cut because agencies have to know not only that they have a 1-year reprieve, but they can plan with some confidence for the years ahead, and that they won't face such a further draconian cut in their reimbursement. 
   It is the only way they can attract the kind of financial lending support they need to cover expenses. It is the businesslike thing to do. 
   That is another irony. For a party that styles themselves as conscious of the business community and knowledgeable of the ways of business, the massive distribution of funds to HMOs defy the logic of both the not-for-profit and for-profit HMO because they will not pass them on. They will either disgorge them to their shareholders as profits or they will put them aside so that their ratings and their financing will be that much more secure when they are raided by outside groups. 
   So this legislation is not only unhelpful for the people who need the help, the providers and ultimately the seniors, but it is, I think, contradictory to the obvious business practices that will be undertaken by the HMOs and others who receive these great funds. 
   I suggest, again, we go back to the table, that we look hard at all these proposed solutions to the problems engendered by the 1997 Balanced Budget Act in regard to Medicare, and that we strive for a bipartisan approach that will get the money to the providers who give the care to the seniors. If we do that, we are going to make great progress. If we don't do that, we will be back here again next week dealing with another proposal after a Presidential veto. 
   Now that is just one aspect of what has been transpiring in this body, one aspect of the impasse we face. 
   Today we sent to the President legislation providing appropriations for Commerce, Justice, and State Departments. What we did not send forth was legislation that would include the Latino Fairness Act, that would include, also, fairness for other groups. 
   One group in particular of which I have been very supportive is the Liberian community in the United States. I have heard my colleagues on the other side say the reason we are not doing this is because we will not engage in country-specific relief in our immigration laws. That is nonsense. We have had country-specific relief. We have had it throughout the history of this country. One just has to look at the Cuban community in this country to see very specific and very helpful country-specific relief in terms of the rules of immigration, rules of establishing permanent residence. 
   Also, people suggested we don't want to legitimize people who come here illegally and stay here illegally without the color of law. In the case of the Liberian community, these individuals have been recognized and allowed to stay here under temporary protective status issued first by President Bush and continued subsequently. Now, however, they face deportation because their TPS status has lapsed. They are now under a status called deferred enforced departure--still legal status, allowing them not only to stay here but also to work. So this is a group of people who are legally recognized to be here, and they have the same rights, I believe, or should have the same rights, as everyone else.  
   This whole issue with respect to Liberians, with respect to Latinos--really, hundreds of thousands who have come here; many have been here for decades or more--who are part of our economy, just as all of those high-tech workers whom we labored so diligently to accommodate under the H-1B visa program. In fact, in places such as Nevada, the home of my colleague, Senator REID, the business communities are asking us to pass the Latino fairness bill because it is their workers who are affected by not being recognized or allowed to establish permanent residence. 
   I think we can do much more and should do much more. This discussion leads invariably to a litany of lost opportunities and partisan action which undercuts the very brave language of Governor Bush who talks about bipartisanship. Certainly we haven't seen any bipartisanship here. We haven't seen a great deal of leadership here on issues that are important to all of us and are particularly important to the American people. 
   If we finish next week simply by adopting the remaining appropriations bills, we will have neglected to deal with the real issues that the American people have demanded of us for months and months and months. There will be no prescription drug benefit for seniors. Yet I hazard a guess that each and every one of us has gone back to our States and talked with fervor and passion about how critical it is these seniors have access to a Medicare prescription drug benefit. Yet that is not likely to happen. Another lost opportunity, another missed chance at the issue, another disappointment to the legitimate hopes of the American people that we would work together and accomplish something for them. 
   We have not enacted a meaningful Patients' Bill of Rights. Yet for months and months and months we have been talking about it. We have seen our colleagues in the other body pass a bipartisan Patients' Bill of Rights. Yet in this body it has languished, and its days are now numbered. So we will not have, for the American people, something they want: Simply to be able to get from their managed care organization the benefits they thought they were entitled to and that their employer typically thought he or she had paid for. But we are not doing that because in this body we didn't pass a real Patients' Bill of Rights. We passed a sham. My collages hoped that sham would be enough of a diversion so the American people will forget what we failed to accomplish. 
   Education reform. Governor Bush is talking about education and touting his record of education. The Rand study has showed some evidence that is not really a record of success but it is a record of less than success. We haven't even gotten around to doing the routine business of the Congress. This is the first time in decades we have failed to pass the Elementary and Secondary Education Reauthorization Act. It is the first time we didn't do it in a bipartisan way, listening to the voices of all of our colleagues, trying to accommodate them, all to try to come up with a product that would represent further progress in reforming education. 
   Reforming education or providing incentives for States to do the bulk of that work because that is their responsibility more than ours--we haven't done that. As a result, we haven't made progress on improving teacher training, we haven't made progress for modernizing libraries, we haven't made progress with parental involvement, we haven't reduced class size or repaired crumbling schools or done all we can to keep our schools safe from violence. 
   Frankly, one of the reasons we did not have the will to bring this legislation to the floor was a paranoia on the side of the Republicans that we would actually vote on sensible gun controls that would help improve the safety not only of our schools but of our streets and our communities all across this country. And as a result, we sacrificed on the altar of fidelity to the NRA a chance to pass elementary and secondary education legislation in this Congress. 
   We haven't passed a hate crimes bill that would say stoutly, vigorously and courageously that we just don't talk about tolerance in the United States, we actually have laws to require the same. 
   We would actually have a Federal statute that would assist communities when they find themselves convulsed by the kind of vicious hate crimes that we saw in Wyoming with Matthew Shepard, that we saw in Texas with Mr. Byrd, so that there would be a Federal response, not just an alternative way to prosecute, but resources to prosecute, with help and assistance. By doing this, we would send a very strong signal that this is not an issue of East or West or North or South, but this is at the core of our American values. This is a country that was built on the idea that men and women from very different backgrounds, very different cultures, very different traditions, could come together and form a perfect union. We have failed in that. 
   We could go on, too, talking about some of the commonsense gun safety and juvenile justice legislation that has languished and will shortly expire. We have not closed the gun show loophole. That was the loophole that was used by the killers at Columbine High School to obtain some of the weapons they used on that attack. How soon we have forgotten. 
   We have not passed legislation to require child safety locks on weapons. Yet we know that could save the lives of some children, and even one child's life saved because he or she would not get access to a firearm in the home is something for which we would be very proud. We have not done it, despite Senator LAUTENBERG's great efforts and the efforts of many of my colleagues. 
   Although we have engaged in debates about policy, we are looking ahead at the consequences of this election where several things will be extraordinarily important--obviously. First, this election will help cast the composition of our Supreme Court. That is not just a jurisprudential matter, that is not just something that should be of interest to law review editors and students at law schools. It will shape whether or not this Federal Government can still play a vital, active role in the lives of its citizens, because the trend of the Court, the trend of the Republican appointees of the Court, has been to circumscribe, dramatically, the power of the Federal Government to act in lieu of the States. 
   When people talk about the Federal role in education, that role might diminish dramatically, regardless of what we do in this body, if we have Justices who believe there is no real congressional/Federal role in education. That is a part of the consequences of this election. 
   Governor Bush has proposed a tax policy that is hard to understand, except for the fact that it seems to leave very little for the other issues with which we must deal: making sure we transform our Armed Forces, making sure we can protect the solvency of the Social Security trust fund, making sure we can keep our Medicare obligations to seniors, making sure we can continue to invest in this country, in its infrastructure--both its physical infrastructure and its human and social infrastructure--through education and training. 
   We are at a point now where, at the end of this Congress, we are facing the turn point, the turning back from the kind of fiscal discipline that has produced the record prosperity over the last several years, to a situation where we fall back again into deficits, into the high interest rates, into the economic stagnation of the late 1980s and early 1990s. We could miss this opportunity to invest in our people, to strengthen our country, its physical strength and its economic vitality and its military prowess, and also its spirit as a nation of neighbors helping others to make their lives better and to make their communities better. 
   We have reached this impasse. I hope we can break through this impasse. I hope we can, through deliberations over the next few days, reach a Medicare refinement proposal that will truly help providers and not just HMOs. I hope we can see a Commerce-State-Justice bill that will come back with Latino 
   fairness legislation, that will recognize that these are good people, struggling to be Americans through work and family and all of the attributes that we see as part of America--not a legal status but a condition of the heart and a habit of the heart. 
   I hope we can do that. But that will take bipartisan effort. It will take all  our efforts. I hope over the next several days we do something we have not done over the last many months--work together for the benefit of the American people. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to echo the strong support of my colleagues for the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act. 
   In July, we celebrated the 35th anniversary of the Older Americans Act, a milestone for a program that has meant so much to millions of America's seniors. The Older Americans Act brings critical support services to the elderly in communities throughout this nation and has greatly benefitted seniors in my State. 
   The long overdue reauthorization of this Act is particularly significant for the State of Rhode Island. The Older Americans Act has had a long and rich legacy in my State since the Act's inception. Indeed, former Rhode Island Congressman John Fogarty played a key role in authoring the original Act, and I am pleased to have played a role in the reauthorization of this historic Act. 
   Since 1965, thousands of Rhode Island seniors have enjoyed the benefits of Older Americans Act programs--from congregate and home delivered meals, senior center programs, protective and legal services for the elderly, among other essential programs and services, all of which have brought comfort and enrichment to the lives of seniors in my State. For example, this year, Older Americans Act funding has helped to provide the following services to seniors in my State: 667,101 congregate meals at 74 sites; 540,008 home delivered meals; and 3,500 clients served through the home visitation program. 
   For many unfortunate reasons, authorization of this legislation lapsed in 1995 and since that time, Congress has been wrangling with its reauthorization. And if it were not for the hard work and sheer determination on the part of Senators JEFFORDS, KENNEDY, DEWINE, and MIKULSKI and their staffs frankly we would not be here this afternoon. I would also like to recognize Janette Takamura, the Assistant Secretary for Aging, for her insights and expertise that have proven invaluable throughout this process and for her tremendous leadership at the Administration on Aging. Indeed, getting to this point has not been easy. I commend my colleagues for their diligence and willingness to compromise on key issues, and I have been pleased to support these efforts. 
   Their long and hard work has resulted in a thoughtful and balanced bill that lays out a vision for Older Americans Act programs for the next several decades. Specifically, this legislation streamlines and updates existing programs and authorizes new programs designed to meet the needs of the growing population of American seniors and their families in the coming century. 
   In particular, as an original cosponor of S. 707, legislation introduced by Senators GRASSLEY and BREAUX, I would like to highlight the inclusion of the Family Caregiver Support program in the Older Americans Act reauthorization. The Family Caregiver Support program is designed to meet the critical needs of families who are caring for loved ones with chronic illnesses or disabilities. This program will support respite services for caregivers, counseling and caregiver training and information about additional support services in the community. 
   Family caregivers are the unsung heros in the provision of long-term care in this country. Nationally, more than 7 million Americans serve as caregivers for relatives, friends and loved ones. Last Fall, I held a Special Senate Committee on Aging field hearing in Rhode Island to explore the burdens and challenges that face family caregivers in my State. 
   My home State of Rhode Island has the third highest concentration of people over the age of 65 in the Nation, has enjoyed a longstanding commitment to community-based services for the elderly. 
   Consequently, over 90 percent of Rhode Island seniors are living outside of institutional-based care settings, thanks in large part to the selfless contributions of families and friends in providing elders with the support they need to remain in their homes and communities. 
   Indeed, my State has already begun to work on creative ways to provide caregivers the resources they need. Recently, the Rhode Island Department of Elderly Affairs was one of 16 national recipients of an Administration on Aging demonstration grant to develop and implement a model to provide training, support and qualified respite care for Alzheimer's families. Monies provided through the new Family Caregiver program under the Older Americans Act will greatly help to fortify and expand ongoing home- and community-based initiatives in my State. 
   I would also like to commend my colleagues for the inclusion of funding under Title IV to help States start to address the transportation needs of our Nation's seniors. Indeed, in Rhode Island, there is a growing demand from senior centers for transit vans to move seniors who cannot drive and are not served by regular mass transit. This is an issue of growing importance in my State, and I look forward to further considering ways to improve senior transit. 
   In closing, I would again like to express my appreciation to my colleagues and their staffs for their tremendous efforts to reauthorize this monumental piece of legislation. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my support for the fiscal year 2001 Defense authorization conference report. 
   I believe this bill contains many excellent provisions which will ensure that our military remains the finest in the world. 
   As to personnel benefits, this bill also takes great steps to improve health care, pay and benefits for armed services personnel. 
   For the second year in a row, Congress approved a pay raise for military personnel. This year's 3.7 percent pay raise will go into effect on January 1, 2001. 
   This bill directs the Secretary of Defense to implement the Thrift Savings Plan for active and reserve service members. 
   Many Members of Congress have been outraged to learn that a number of active duty service members qualify for food stamps. This bill addresses that issue by directing the Secretary of Defense to implement a program which provides additional special pay of up to $500 per month for those service members who qualify for food stamps. 
   This bill also eliminates co-payments for active duty family members for health care received under TRICARE Prime. In addition, Congress extended TRICARE Prime to families of service members assigned to remote locations. 
   For military retirees, this bill goes far to fulfill the promise made to our military retirees when they enlisted that they would be given lifetime healthcare. 
   Congress approved a permanent comprehensive health care benefit for Medicare-eligible retirees which effectively makes all military retirees eligible for health care within TRICARE. 
   Under this plan, military retirees and family members may keep their Medicare coverage and use Tricare as a Medicare supplement to pay costs not covered by Medicare. 
   This provision can save military retirees thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket costs. 
   Congress also expanded the comprehensive retail and national mail order pharmacy to benefit all Medicare eligible retirees and their eligible family members, without enrollment fees. 
   On submarines, this bill also provides significant resources for the Navy's submarine fleet, a military asset very close to the hearts of the residents of my home state Rhode Island: 
   Authorizes funding for the construction of the third Virginia class submarine, the U.S.S. Hawaii; 
   Authorizes a block buy of submarines from FY03-06 which will greatly increase the efficiency and lower the cost of our next generation of submarines. 
   In transforming for future threats, the Navy will soon be faced with a decision on whether to refuel old Los Angeles class submarines or convert four Trident submarines which are scheduled to be retired to special operations boats. I believe that this decision must be made very carefully and so I am pleased that this report contains language directing a study of the advantages of Trident conversion over refueling. 
   I am also pleased that significant funding has been authorized for countermine measures. I believe this is a necessary program that has been woefully underfunded in recent years. 
   As to Army transformation, in October 1999, senior Army leaders announced a new vision to enable the Army to better meet the diverse, complex demands of the 21st century. 
   At present, in some instances the Army faces strategic deployment challenges that inhibits its ability to negotiate rapidly the transitions from peacetime operations in one part of the world to small-scale contingencies in another. 
   Army heavy forces have no peer in the world, but they are a challenge to deploy. 
   The Army has the world's finest light infantry, but it lacks adequate lethality, survivability, and mobility once in theater. 
   The Army Transformation Strategy will result in an Objective Force that is more responsible, deployable, agile, versatile, lethal, survivable and sustainable than the present force. 
   A force with these capabilities will allow the Army to place a combat capable brigade anywhere in the world, regardless of ports or airfields, in 96 hours. 
   It will put a division on the ground in 120 hours. And it will put 5 divisions in theater in 30 days. 
   This bill supports the Army Transformation efforts by authorizing an additional $750 million for the initiative, of which $600 million is for procurement requirements and $150 million for R&D requirements. 
   On impact aid, I am also pleased that the conference report contains language I authored to address the considerable financial strain on school districts educating military children with severe disabilities and help military families get the best education for their children with severe disabilities. 
   As many of my colleagues are aware, military personnel with children with severe disabilities often request and receive compassionate-post assignments to a few districts known for their special education programs. 
   The cost of providing such education is disproportionately high for these communities. In fact, for some of these children, the cost is upwards of $50,000 to $100,000 a year (as compared to an average per pupil expenditure of $6,900). 
   In my home state, Middletown, Portsmouth, and Newport are districts with many military children with disabilities. This year, Middletown alone is providing education to 66 high need military children with disabilities at a total cost of nearly $1 million. 
   This experience, however, is not unique to Rhode Island. In fact, districts ranging from San Diego and Travis Unified in California to Fort Sam Houston Independence in Texas also face considerable financial strain in their endeavor to educate military children with disabilities. 
   Section 363 of the conference report, Impact Aid for Children with Severe Disabilities, requires a report containing information on military children with severe disabilities, and authorizes funding to ease the strain on local communities providing education to high numbers of such children. 
   Mr. President, this critical program will help ensure that military families get the best education for their children with disabilities, while providing needed relief to school districts, and I am very pleased that it has been adopted.  
   I look forward to working with my fellow 
   committee members, the Department of Defense, impact aid organizations, military personnel, and affected communities to press for funding for this program next year. 
   Under the Montgomery G.I. bill, Mr. President, I would now like to turn to some items that I regret have not been included in the conference report. 
   First, I would like to mention the expansion of Montgomery G.I. bill benefits that have been advocated for years by our colleague, Senator CLELAND. 
   One of the most innovative provisions he proposed would have allowed service members to transfer Montgomery G.I. bill benefits to family members. 
   I believe this transferability would have been an effective tool for recruiting new members and retaining trained and skilled service members. 
   This provision would have had a negligible impact on the budget: The provision was not written as an entitlement, but rather would have been implemented at the discretion of the service Secretaries. 
   However, this provision, which was included in the Senate bill, was ultimately eliminated from the conference report because it was too expensive. 
   Yet while this provision was considered too expensive, in conference, majority leaders created and approved a greatly expanded entitlement for retirees which will cost $60 billion over ten years. 
   I am disappointed that we were not able to include both of these worthy items in this conference report and I will continue to work with Senator CLELAND to ensure it is included next year. 
   As for hate crimes, Mr. President, I would like to express my extreme disappointment regarding the stripping of the hate crimes legislation from the Department of Defense (DOD) authorization conference report. 
   Fifty-seven United States Senators voted to add this important legislation to the DOD authorization bill, 232 Members of the House of Representatives instructed the conferees to keep the hate crimes legislation in the DOD authorization bill, and both the President and Vice-President have expressed unwavering support for this legislation. 
   Although some argue that hate crimes legislation has nothing to do with authorizing our nation's defense programs, a majority of the Senate added it to the DOD authorization bill because we were never given the opportunity by the Republican leadership to vote on it as a stand alone bill. 
   I support this legislation because it sends a message that society finds crimes motivated by bias especially heinous and worthy of punishment. 
   Hate crime laws recognize that a violent act committed against someone just because of who they are, is intended to intimidate and frighten people other than the immediate victim. While a hate crime might be targeted at one person, it is really directed at an entire community. 
   Considering the intent behind a person's action in committing a crime is not a new development. Deeply ingrained in our nation's laws is the recognition that 
   intentions count when it comes to crime. That's why premeditated murder is punished more severely than manslaughter. 
   Hate crime laws express society's judgment that a violent act motivated by bigotry deserves greater punishment than a random crime committed under the same circumstances. 
   The Local Law Enforcement Act does not trample on our nation's ideals of free speech and equal justice under the law. 
   The Supreme Court has held constitutional state legislation that enhances penalties for hate crimes, respecting findings that hate crimes often provoke retaliatory crimes, inflict distinct emotional harms on their victims, and incite community unrest. The Court affirmed that it is reasonable to have greater punishments for crimes that cause greater individual or societal harm. 
   Hate crimes are very real offenses, combinations of uncontrollable bigotry and vicious acts of personal injury. These crimes not only inflict physical wounds, but wreak mental and emotional devastation by attacking a person's identity. 
   People who hurt or kill someone because that person represents a certain community, deserve harsher penalties. 
   Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said that he hoped that one day all people will be judged by the content of their character. 
   A majority of the U.S. Senate, a majority of the House of Representatives and the President and Vice President believe this to be the case. Our nation's hate crime laws should be extended so that we--that all people can have the freedom to be themselves without fear of being attacked for who or what they are. 
   Mr. President, I regret that we were not able to accomplish all that we set out to do with this conference report. 
   However, I believe that it is ultimately a solid legislative effort that will help our military and I urge my colleagues to support it. 
   Mr. President, I commend Chairman WARNER and the ranking member, Senator LEVIN, for their great work in bringing to the floor a comprehensive and critically needed reauthorization of our defense programs. This is legislation which recognizes the extraordinary sacrifices of our military personnel around the globe--sacrifices which were certainly highlighted today in the gulf. 
   One part of this legislation is an enhancement of personnel benefits, both pay and health care. There is a sentiment which I subscribe to, frankly, as a veteran and as an American, that we cannot reward our service men and women enough for what they do each day. There is a very practical consideration, and that is the limits of our budget. 
   This legislation does many good things, but it raises an important question. It raises the question of whether we are reaching the limits of resources that we can effectively devote to personnel concerns, not only in terms of overall economic strategies in the country but also in terms of the inherently limited defense dollars because dollars we commit to personnel force cannot be used for operations, cannot be used for modernization, cannot be used for a host of programs that give us the qualitative education, and give our service men and women serving today the tools to do this very critical job. That question keeps emerging in the context of this legislation. For those personnel enhancements, certainly no one deserves more recognition or reward than our men and women in uniform. 
   Let me speak about several other topics included within this legislation. First, I am pleased to see that submarines have been recognized. This is a very valuable aspect of our national security. This legislation would authorize funding for the construction of a third Virginia class submarine, the U.S.S. Hawaii, and authorize a block buy program of submarines for fiscal years 2003 to 2006. It is more efficient, a better way to spend our dollars to get the quality submarines we need. It also recognizes the requirements to 
   augment our submarine fleet by either new construction or by refueling existing 688 attack submarines. 
   This legislation, I am pleased to say, contains legislation language that directs a study of conversion of Trident over refueling, conversion of certain submarines over refueling, and that type of study is inherently positive and useful for future deliberations. 
   What is happening to our services today as we speak is a profound transformation based upon new threats, a transformation based upon new political realities in the post-cold-war world. It is a transformation we have to undertake with each service. I believe this legislation lays out some good guidelines for the transformation. 
   With respect to the Army, it does support the Chief of Staffs' commitment to forming five to six new interim Army brigades that would be more mobile, better able to be positioned around the world. It also sets up testing requirements that will ensure these new concepts are thoroughly tested. 
   With respect to the Air Force, it recognizes what has already been done in terms of organizing 10 aerospace expeditionary forces in providing resources and certainly support for that. 
   With respect to the Navy, it recognizes and, again, as evidenced today, the Navy now has responsibilities close in shore, along the littorals. They have to be prepared to meet the hostile fleet  at sea. But more often they are called upon to be close in, supporting operations, supporting political and diplomatic issues. That, too, is recognized here. 
   So we have legislation that is comprehensive, legislation that recognizes the need to reward our service men and women, legislation that recognizes the need to transform our military services because of our new world, and legislation that I think goes a long way in building those vital programs, such as submarines, but there are others, that are critical to our future national security. 
   There are several regrets, though, and one regret is that included within the Senate version of the legislation was the hate crimes bill--important legislation that could match our ideals with our legislative intent. We all profess, indeed, would say stoutly and without reservation, our abhorrence for hate crimes, the need to condemn them. Unfortunately, this language which was included in the Senate version, and which the House also favorably supported for at least an instruction of the conferees, could not be included in the final version of the legislation. I regret that. 
   What it means is that we have to return next January with a commitment to pass this legislation. Hopefully we can pass it standing alone; hopefully, if that is not the case, on some legislative vehicle. But this legislation is necessary. Certainly I will be supporting this legislation because it will make us more capable, it will help us modernize our forces, and will reward those forces who are serving so valiantly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to take a moment to discuss the issue of Liberians in the United States who, up until a few days ago, faced an imminent threat of deportation. Today, through Executive action, that has been stayed at least for a year, but it is a community of people residing here who are literally living on the edge, not knowing if next year at this time they will, in fact, be deported back to Liberia, which is a country in great turmoil and crisis as we speak. 
   For the last several years I have tried with diligence and determination to do justice for these people, to give them a chance to become permanent residents of this country and ultimately citizens of this country. In my determination and my dedication, I have objected to the consideration of other legislation regarding immigrant groups, not because this legislation lacked merit, but because, in my view, it was unfair not to consider in some way the plight of the Liberians who are in the United States today. 
   I hope at this point, given assurances by the White House that this issue of justice for Liberians in the United States is a paramount issue for the President in the final days of this Congress in his negotiation with the congressional leadership, that the legislation I have objected to can and will move forward promptly. 
   Let me try to explain briefly the status of Liberians in this country. 
   In 1989, Liberia, which historically is a country with close ties with Africa and the United States--it was founded by freed American slaves; its capital is Monrovia, named after 
   our President James Monroe--this country in 1989 was engulfed in a brutal civil war. This civil war over the next 7 years would claim 150,000 lives; it would displace the population; it would destroy infrastructure. In 1991, realizing the gravity of this crisis, the Attorney General of the United States granted temporary protective status to approximately 14,000 Liberians. They were allowed to remain in the United States. They could apply for work authorization, and they could work during this temporary protective status. 
   This status was renewed annually because of the crisis in Liberia until 1999. In that year, it was determined that since there had been at least an election of democratic reform in Liberia, and since the situation of armed conflict had subsided, temporary protective status was no longer required. But rather than immediate deportation, the President decided to authorize something which is known as deferred enforced departure, or DED, essentially telling the Liberian community in the United States: You are subject to deportation today, but we are simply deferring that for at least a year. 
   Just recently, again at the end of last month, we were able to get another Executive extension, but essentially what we are doing to these good people is putting their lives on hold one year at a time. They are unable to establish the same kind of permanency that we are seeking for other groups in this country. 
   They are good and decent people who have worked hard. They are a vital part of our community, and in the intervening almost 10 years, they have established themselves; quite literally many of them have children born here who are American citizens. 
   Yet each year we force these people to worry, to be concerned, to contemplate the very idea of leaving a home they have found and established here, taking with them children who know nothing of their native land, taking with them their skills which are not particularly useful, and going into a country that is violent. 
   Yesterday, the President of the United States and our Department of State declared the President of Liberia, Charles Taylor, persona non grata in the United States. He cannot get a visa to come here because of his deportations within Liberia, because of his support of a campaign of terror in Sierra Leone. We have all been horrified by the pictures of mutilated children in Sierra Leone. This is all part of his involvement there--his trading guns for diamonds, his attempt to destabilize the country, and defy international law. 
   That is the situation in Liberia, a situation, I might add, which we have also recognized is a threat to Americans. Our State Department is advising Americans they should not go to Liberia. We are withdrawing nonessential embassy personnel from Liberia. Yet we are unable to tell these Liberians in America: You can stay here and become permanent residents. 
   In fact, we are saying: We are prepared to deport you at the end of next year because that is the message that DED gives. I think it is wrong. I think it is unjust. 
   So I objected to certain measures. I think it is important to point out these measures. 
   First, there was legislation, H.R. 4681, to provide an adjustment status for Syrian Jews. These individuals came to the United States in 1992 through an arrangement between President Bush and President Assad of Syria. They were allowed to leave the country to seek refuge in the United States. But part of the negotiations, part of the fiction was that they would leave Syria on tourist visas. So they came to the United States. They did not come as refugees. They came as asylees. They sought asylum when they entered here. 
   Under our immigration law, there is a limit on the number of asylees that can adjust to permanent status each year. But it is important to point out, these individuals, these very good decent people, these Syrian Jews, are not in danger of being deported back to Syria. 
   Liberians are in grave danger of being deported back to Liberia. Essentially what this legislation would do--and I would support this legislation--is it would jump in ahead of other asylees who are waiting to fulfill the yearly quota of the number of asylees who can become permanent residents. 
   So this is a situation of concern and importance, but not the level of criticality, I believe, with respect to the Liberian community. Yet this legislation has moved through this House promptly, is on the verge of passage, while still the Liberian legislation languishes. I do not think that is right. I do not think it is just. I don't care. I certainly am pleased literally within a few days these Syrian Jews will have a chance to adjust to permanent status. Again, what about the Liberians? 
   There is another piece of legislation, the religious worker visa extension bill, which is also known as the Mother Teresa Religious Worker Act. This bill will allow the religious to come to the United States on a visa to do pastoral work. 
   It has been in effect for several years. It is a good program. About 2,500 workers come in a year. Very importantly, 
   once these individuals are here, they can also adjust to permanent residency status, unlike the Liberians who now, under our DED, cannot do that. It is a worthy program, but it is a program, again, that I do not think has the same kind of compelling justice that the Liberians have in their case. 
   We again applaud the fact that this piece of legislation is likely to become law. But what about the Liberians? 
   There is also another piece of legislation that would grant immediate citizenship to children adopted internationally by the American public. Once again, these children are not in any danger of being returned to their homeland involuntarily. The Liberians are in such danger. 
   Each time now that a child is adopted, they come in on a visa. The adoptive parents can fill out an application for citizenship on behalf of the child and pay a $2,500 fee. The application is then considered with all other applications for permanent residency. It takes a few years, but these children are virtually assured of becoming American citizens. 
   Let me try to suggest the incongruity of not dealing with the Liberian legislation in the same way we are dealing with this type of legislation. 
   If we do not, next September, grant DED, we could be in the awkward position of having legislation which would  allow an American couple to adopt a Liberian child and automatically make that child a citizen while at the same time we deport Liberian families in which the children are already American citizens having been born here. Again, not fair, not just. Even though this adoption bill is quite worthy--it will likely become law; I will support it--what about the Liberians? 
   So what we have seen is that legislation that has been introduced after legislation I introduced has already proceeded through the House and the Senate and will likely become law to the benefit of these good people, but what about the Liberians? 
   I have tried all I can to get a fair hearing for the Liberians in this country. I hope, in the last few days, we will get that hearing, through the intervention of the White House and through the consideration of my colleagues. 
   There are about 10,000 people here who have become important parts of our communities, who have sunk roots deep in our communities, many of whom have children who are Americans. It is not fair and it is not right that they are being ignored. I have tried to prevent at least that from happening, of them being completely ignored and being deported. They have suffered our indifference. I hope we can work this out in the next few days. 
   I thank my colleagues for their indulgence. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleague from Iowa, the Chairman of the Special Senate Committee on Aging, to introduce legislation that we hope will begin to address an immediate and critical labor  shortage facing nursing home facilities across the nation as well as the long term objective of establishing nursing home staffing thresholds. 
   In late July, the Health Care Financing Administration, HCFA, released the first phase of its long awaited report on the feasibility and appropriateness of minimum nursing home staffing ratios. The initial phase of this report explored the relationship between staffing levels and quality of care. The HCFA study found a strong correlation between certain staffing thresholds and the quality of care provided to nursing home residents. The report also found that nursing homes are having great difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified staff to work in their facilities. Clearly, we can and should be doing more to ensure that the care of our elderly and disabled is not being placed at risk. 
   In my home state of Rhode Island, we have been dealing with a critical shortage in the number of Certified Nursing Assistants, CNAs, in particular. CNAs provide direct care in a skilled nursing setting to residents who need help with essential daily living tasks, such as dressing, feeding and bathing. A state task force comprised of long term care providers and nursing home consumer advocates found that over 26,000 individuals were licensed as CNAs, but only 14,000 are currently working in the field. The task force also found that the turnover rate for CNAs rose to an unprecedented 82.6 percent in 1999. 
   The two most important issues identified in the state report were wages and adequate staffing levels. In terms of wages, a person in my state can make more in starting salary as a hotel maid in Providence ($9.50/hour) than they would as a licensed CNA ($7.69/hour). Those individuals who have dedicated their careers to caring for our most vulnerable citizens certainly deserve better and the legislation we are introducing today will help to restore respect and dignity to the caregiver profession. 
   The Nursing Home Staff Improvement Act will address these problems in essentially two ways. First, the legislation requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to complete the second phase of the nursing home staffing report by July 2001. The Secretary will then be called upon to use the findings and recommendations of the final report to develop appropriate caregiver to resident and supervisor to caregiver ratios for nursing facilities that participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The second major component of the bill is the establishment of a grant program to States for the purpose of augmenting staffing levels. This provision, which is based on a initiative announced by President Clinton in mid-September, will support projects aimed at improving the recruitment and retention of direct nursing staff. The bill also requires nursing homes to post, on a daily basis, the number of staff and residents at the facility as well as submit staffing information to the Secretary. 
   As a member of the Special Senate Committee on Aging, I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the Nursing Home Staff Improvement Act, a balanced piece of legislation that I believe will go a long way in stabilizing nursing home staffing levels nationwide. I look forward to working with Senator GRASSLEY and my other colleagues to enact this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I yield such time as I may consume from the Democratic time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, there has been much discussion about the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act. I think it is useful and appropriate to focus on precisely what this act does. 
   First, in 1997 Congress passed the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act. Essentially, this bill granted permanent residency to  Nicaraguans and Cubans who had fled oppressive governments. But we also recognize that there were thousands of other individuals from Central America who were fleeing the same type of repression, the same type of uncertainty in their lives, and violence in their lives. Yet these individuals were not covered by this legislation. 
   One of the major provisions of the bill we are discussing is to recognize these individuals who also have been residing in the United States, who have been working in the United States, and who have been contributing to our communities. This is not at all some act of condoning illegality. 
   Frankly, in 1997, we recognized that simple justice demanded that we allow individuals who are living in this country to adjust to permanent residency. We now want to expand that principle of fairness and decency to the others from that region. 
   In addition, there are other areas of the world which have the same types of violence, chaos, and turmoil. Principally I have been active on behalf of the Liberians who are here--many since the early 1990s civil war in their country. 
   This is not about condoning or recognizing lawlessness. It is about fairness. 
   In fact, our immigration policy is such that we certainly recognize and extend extraordinary opportunities to Cubans who flee their country without documentation, simply by arriving on the shore, have argument or the opportunity to make the case to stay here. 
   If we can do that for one particular group, I think in the context of the turmoil and chaos we have seen in Central America, we can do it for other groups. That is at the core of this legislation. 
   Second, we have, since 1929, established a principle that if one enters this country and stays long enough and contributes to the communities in which he or she lives, they will be allowed to adjust to permanent status--this notion, called the registry date, is the idea that if you can document your presence in the United States for a long enough period of time, we will allow you to become a permanent resident and part of the citizenry. 
   Another part of the legislation moves the day of registry from 1972 to 1986. I think that recognizes that periodically throughout our history we face the reality that people have come here and established themselves, and it would be unfair to send them to their native lands. We are simply updating that particular date to allow people who have been residing in this country since 1986 to become permanent residents. 
   Finally, we would extend provision 245(i) which allows a person who qualified for a green card or work authorization to obtain a visa without first leaving the country. One of the changes we made recently in the immigration law was to require people physically to leave the United States to apply for a visa to come back in. That is not only an undue burden, but it complicates infinitely the lives of people who are working here, living here, and want to become permanent residents. 
   This is not legislation that condones lawlessness, it is legislation that is consistent with many legislative acts we have adopted beginning in the 1920s. It is legislation that recognizes if we are extending special opportunities to some people in a region, we should also, in fairness, extend it to others in that same region. This is legislation that is not particularly novel, but it is eminently and inherently just and fair and should be before the Senate. 
   But because of the parliamentary maneuvering and devices used, this legislation has not been offered in a way we can vote directly on it. Our plea has been, for months and months and months, to allow an up-or-down vote. There are serious policy issues regarding this legislation. People of good conscience can disagree. What is most disagreeable is that we have not had the opportunity to offer amendments on this legislation so that we can vote up or down. 
   There is one part of the bill in which I am particularly interested because it applies to a group of people who have been residing in our country for almost a decade, the Liberian population; 10,000 Liberians. The cause of their stay in the United States was a vicious civil war in their homeland. Many have been here for years. They have established themselves. They have been working and paying taxes and not, because they are subject to temporary protected status, enjoying any particular public benefits. Many have children who are American citizens. 
   One such individual, reported today in the Baltimore Sun is Gonlakpor Gonkpala, 48 years old. He has been living in the United States since he arrived as a student from Liberia in 1982. He got a degree in finance at Central State University in Wilberforce, OH, and did graduate work at Morgan State University. The civil war has prevented him from returning home. Today he lives in Brockton, MA, where he owns a three-bedroom house, belongs to a Masonic lodge, and is a member of the Methodist Church. He manages a CVS pharmacy. But Friday, without extension of DED, deferred enforced departure, his work authority will cease and he will be deported back to Liberia. 
   This is typical of so many people. It seems to me supremely ironic that as we are taking people from around the world under H-1B visas to man our industrial and commercial enterprises throughout this country, we are literally sending people who are already here, working hard, contributing and making our economy 
   grow, we are sending them back to Liberia. 
   At the same time we are proposing to send people back to Liberia, our State Department is issuing warnings telling American citizens: Don't go there; it is too dangerous; you are likely to be threatened, if not worse. 
   We have been working with colleagues in this body for months to bring a bill to the floor on a bipartisan basis, Republicans and Democrats. Yet we have been denied systematically that opportunity. The denial to us means the status and the lives of 10,000 Liberians in the United States continue to hang by a very slender thread. 
   I hope all who embrace the notion of fairness and justice in immigration will give us the opportunity to vote on this issue. To date, that has not happened. It is critical because the prospect of sending these people home is very daunting and dangerous for these individuals. Liberia today is a democracy in form but not a democracy in substance. It is plagued with violence, economic turmoil, uncertainty, and fear. As so many Liberians report to me, it is a place where they will not be accepted readily. Also, they very well could be threatened physically. Certainly, they would have difficult problems adapting. Many face a very difficult choice: Do I leave my American-born children, American citizens here, and go back, or do I bring them back to a country that is unprepared to care for them in terms of health care, education, and other social endeavors? 
   That is what is at stake. It is the same for so many families who are Latinos in this country. That is what we are about: The same kind of simple justice since the same kind of difficult situations faced by the Liberians are faced by Hispanics. We want to give them a chance to adjust their status. It is not a recognition of lawlessness, it is in a sense a recognition of these people's contributions to America and their commitment to our country. 
   The situation is one which is especially compelling for me. Our ties to Liberia are older than any in Africa. The country was established by freed American slaves. Its capital is Monrovia, named after President Monroe. It has for years been a place for which Americans and Liberians have felt a special kinship. Today it is ruled by a President, Charles Taylor, who has been implicated in crimes of violence in neighboring country Sierra Leone, who has been nonsupportive of human rights and political freedoms, who has conducted a regime that is repressive and rightly criticized by so many. 
   I don't believe we can or should send thousands of Liberians residing here back to Liberia. What we have is an opportunity to do something that is both fair and, I believe, entirely appropriate. But that opportunity has been frustrated left and right by the unwillingness to give us the opportunity to bring this measure forward. Later today, we have an opportunity to vote on a resolution that will allow us at least to get a vote. We will continue to press on. We will continue to try to inject justice into our system of immigration, 
   to recognize that there are thousands and thousands of people who are living here who desperately want to stay here, who want to continue to  contribute to America. I hope we recognize their contribution and give them a chance to stay. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I had the opportunity to speak prior to Senator BINGAMAN about the issues pending before us with respect to immigration, and, in particular, with regard to the Liberian community in the United States--10,000 individuals who are facing immediate deportation unless the President extends DED, which is the acronym for deferred enforced departure. I certainly would urge the President to do that. 
   As a result of our inability to bring this measure to the floor over the last several months, there is very little option for these people except for the Presidential issuance of a DED proclamation. I would urge him to do that. 
   But that does not solve the problem. That would essentially give the Liberians in the United States another year. But still their life would be tenuous. They would be unsure of whether or not they could stay through the next year. 
   As a result, I believe what we must do is come to grips with the underlying issue, and allow these individuals to adjust to permanent status in the United States and, hopefully, become citizens of this country. We have to do that, I think, because each year the equity and the logic of allowing them to become permanent citizens becomes more compelling. 
   It has been 10 years now since many of them came to this country. In another year it will be 11. At some point, simple justice requires that they be allowed to make an adjustment to permanent status and become citizens of this country. 
   It is important to recognize how the Liberian community got to this particular juncture. In 1991, in that era of  violent civil war in Liberia, the Attorney General granted temporary protected status, recognizing that the chaos in Liberia was so great that, in good conscience, we could not force these people to return to Liberia. That TPS status was extended year after year after year, until very recently when it was determined that the conditions in Liberia momentarily had stabilized. 
   But the President, recognizing that what appeared to be a formal democratic government process in Liberia was, in effect, covering up great confusion, great chaos, great turmoil in the country, and did not require the deportation of these individuals but invoked DED. 
   I have heard on the floor suggestions that our proposal with respect to Liberia and, indeed with respect to other immigrant groups, is some novel, unique, first-time attempt to upset the ``majesty'' of our immigration laws; when, in fact, periodically in the United States we have recognized that people have come here with temporary documentation but now have stayed long enough, have contributed to our communities, and, in doing so, deserve the opportunity to become permanent residents and citizens. 
   In 1988, Congress passed a law allowing four national groups that had been allowed to stay in the U.S. at the Attorney General's discretion to adjust to permanent resident status: 4,996 Poles who had been here for 3 years; 378 Ugandans who had been here for 10 years; 565 Afghanis who had been here for 8 years; and about 1,200 Ethiopians who had been here for 11 years. So this process of recognizing the reality of the contribution of people who come here intending initially to stay temporarily is nothing new. 
   The 102d Congress passed a law allowing Chinese nationals who 
   had been granted DED--they were in the same position as Liberians are now--to adjust to permanent residency after the Tiananmen Square atrocity. After the Chinese authorities brutally repressed the demonstration of young students, it was feared that to return these people to China would place them in great peril--I think a well-founded fear. But over the next 4 years, 52,000 Chinese changed their status. 
   So, again, we recognized turmoil in a country, we recognized individuals are here who established themselves, and we have given them a chance to adjust. That is simply what we are asking for with respect to Liberians, with respect to many Central Americans who are here. 
   In the last Congress, we passed NACARA, which recognized some of the need and some of the demand to give people from Central America a chance to establish themselves here permanently. So what we have seen over the course of many years is a pattern of recognizing the need of particular groups who come here without documentation or with temporary protection, who establish themselves, who contribute to their communities, and who, under our law--both its letter and its spirit--deserve a chance to adjust their status. 
   That is at the heart of what we are attempting to do with these several amendments that we wanted to originally propose to the H-1B visa bill. I think it is an appropriate vehicle. After all, we are all supportive of the need of high-tech industry for workers. I think we can equally be supportive of those people who are working today, not only in high tech but in a host of enterprises throughout this country, who face deportation, who face being returned to their homeland. They are already contributing to our country, yet we have not been able to bring such measures to the floor for the kind of up-and-down vote that their situation demands. I hope we can at some point. 
   It is very critical to the Liberians. It is critical to many other people. The criticality for Liberians turns, I think, on the conditions in their own homeland. We have a situation where there was an election. It was monitored by international authorities. In form it looked democratic, but in substance it has not resulted in a democratic regime that is protective of the rights of individuals. 
   There are numerous examples of human rights abuses that persist today in Liberia. Last year, for example, human rights organizations estimated that approximately 100 individuals were victims of extrajudicial killings, but yet there have been no convictions of anyone involved in these killings. 
   I had an individual visit me in my office in Rhode Island who had just returned from Liberia. He went back there. He is trying to promote commerce and industry between the two countries of the United States and Liberia. And he is associated with a political party that is out of favor at the moment over there. 
   He was traveling with one of their principal politicians. He was in a car, leaving a particular village, and they were warned to go the other way because an ambush had been set up to either kidnap them or kill them. They avoided that situation by a few moments and the intercession of someone who gave them advice to go the other way. I am told this is very common in Liberia. 
   We have also seen eyewitness accounts of incidents in villages. Last year a village was surrounded by Government security forces. All the men were taken away. Their fate is yet to be determined. 
   In 1999, the State Department issued a report, their country report, which stated that Government security forces, sometimes torture, beat, and otherwise abuse and humiliate citizens. Victims reported being held in water-filled holes in the ground, being injured when fires were kindled on grates over their heads, suffering beatings, and sexual abuse. All of this is attributed to Government security forces. 
   President Taylor has stated that these reports of human rights abuses are simply the results of these human rights organizations trying to interfere with his country. I think that could not be further from the truth. 
   There is a pattern. There is evidence. There is persistent evidence of these types of abuses. 
   In 1999, Government security personnel were involved in the looting of 1,450 tons of food intended for Sierra Leone refugees. And they stole vehicles belonging to nongovernmental organizations that were sent to Liberia to help refugees in Sierra Leone. 
   Prison conditions are harsh in the country. There are reports of torture, of detainees being held without charges. Government security forces continue to harass and threaten political opposition figures. 
   Freedom of the press is not a reality. The press is repressed rather than encouraged. 
   We find a situation that is consistent throughout the country with these types of human rights abuses, so much so that our State Department has suggested and advised Americans not to travel to Liberia. 
   So we are on the verge of a decision, I hope, by the White House to extend deferred enforced departure, a decision that is entirely appropriate but insufficient to deal with the underlying issues. The underlying issues involve 10,000 Liberians who have come to this country, who have been offered sanctuary--we must applaud the generosity of spirit that motivated the offer of temporary protected status--have established themselves, and now wait with uncertainty and doubt about their future. 
   Simply to extend this uncertainty and this doubt year by year by year is cruel but also fails to recognize that they have become so much a part of our communities in such a constructive way. I mentioned before an individual who has a master's degree, who is now managing a CVS store in Massachusetts, who owns his home. He is somebody who is contributing to our economy today. He is someone who is here making our economy work for us. Yet he faces the prospect of being denied the ability to work, come Friday, and being potentially deported back to a country which is unwilling in many respects to accept him back. 
   For many reasons, we have to be supportive of this effort to bring this legislation to the floor. What is so frustrating is that for many months now, working in the way I believe the Senate works, making the case to my colleagues, getting the support across the aisle of several colleagues for bipartisan legislation, of working for the kind of support that would be necessary to pass this legislation, but ultimately being frustrated because it became quite clear there was no real intent to give this community, to give this legislation a vote, up or down, on the floor. That is the wrong way to use the process.  
   I don't think anyone here should be afraid of taking a vote on this particular measure. One could disagree with the policy. One could disagree with the principle, articulate those differences and then vote. What we find, time after time after time, is that type of principled, rational, careful legislative debate and decision is frustrated by the decision that we can only recognize one immigration issue, and that is ensuring that high-technology companies have sufficient workers. We can't recognize the many other immigration issues, the many other individuals who cry out for simple justice and cry out for the chance to be good Americans, to be recognized as such, to have the chance to change their status to permanent residents and, we hope, ultimately to become citizens of this great country. 
   We can do better. I don't think we have to limit our vision and our efforts and our activities simply to keep our economy moving forward. I think we can recognize something else, to ensure that we are fair and just in our dealings with thousands of people who come to this country and, by the way, who contribute significantly to our economy. 
   I hope we can do both. I hope in the next few days we can resolve this impasse and we can get a vote, and we can pass this measure with respect to the Liberians but also with respect to Latinos and other groups who have been here and continue to be part of our great country and want their contribution recognized with the opportunity to become citizens of this country. 
   With that, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to also speak about a grave omission with respect to the debate that is ongoing regarding H-1B visas. 
   There is widespread support for the H-1B visa program. What has happened is that our ability to also address other compelling immigration issues has  been totally frustrated by this cloture process, by this overt attempt to eliminate amendments, to eliminate our ability to deal with other issues. One in particular that is compelling to me is the status of 10,000 Liberians who have been here in the United States since 1989-1990, when the country of Liberia was thrust into a destructive civil war. 
   These people came here. They were recognized, because of the violence in their homeland, as being deserving of temporary protective status. That status was granted in 1991 by the Attorney General. For almost a decade now they have been here in the United States, working, paying taxes, raising families while not qualifying for any type of social benefits such as welfare. Many of these people, who are here legally, have children who are American citizens. They are within hours of losing their protection and being deported back to Liberia. 
   In response to this pressing dilemma, I introduced legislation in March of 1999 cosponsored by Senator WELLSTONE, Senator KENNEDY, Senator DURBIN, Senator KERRY, Senator LANDRIEU, Senator HAGEL, and Senator L. CHAFEE. Our attempt was to allow these Liberians the opportunity to adjust to permanent resident status and one day become citizens of this country. There are 10,000 located across the country. They have been contributing members of these communities. Yet, because of the process we have adopted here, because of the unwillingness to take up this issue--which is a key immigration issue, along with the H-1B--these individuals are perhaps facing expulsion from this country in the next few days. 
   I hope we can deal with this. It is essential we do so. One of the great ironies of our treatment of the Liberians is that at the moment we are prepared to deport them to Liberia, we are urging American citizens not to go to that country because it is so violent. 
   Our State Department has released official guidance to Americans warning them not to travel to Liberia because of the instability, because of the potential for violence, because of the inability of civil authorities to protect not only Americans but to protect anyone in Liberia. 
   So we are at one time saying, don't go to Liberia if you are an American citizen, but unless we pass this legislation or unless, once again, the President authorizes deferral of forced departure--essentially staying the deportation of these Liberians--we are going to send these people back into a country to which we are advising Americans not to go. 
   Although this country had a democratic election a few years ago, it was an election more in form than substance. It is a country governed by a President who is a warlord, someone who is not a constructive force for peace and progress in that part of Africa. In fact, he started his political career by escaping from a prison in Massachusetts, going back to Liberia, and then organizing his military forces to begin this civil war. One of his first accomplishments, according to the New Republic, was the creation of a small boys unit, a battalion of intensely loyal child soldiers who are fed crack cocaine and refer to Taylor as ``our father.'' 
   This is the leader of a country who has also been implicated in a disturbance in the adjoining country of Sierra Leone. Month after month, we have seen horrible pictures of the degradations that are going on there in Sierra Leone. He is involved in that, supporting homicidal forces in Sierra Leone. 
   This is not a place we want to send people back to--people who have resided in our country for 10 years, people who have been part of our communities, young people particularly, who know very little about Liberia and will be thrust back into a situation where their protection is in jeopardy and where their future is in great jeopardy in terms of access to schools and education and other necessary programs. 
   For months now--starting last March--we have been lobbying intensively to get an opportunity at least to vote on legislation that would allow these individuals to adjust to permanent status. That legislative approach has been frustrated time and time again, most recently with the decision that we would not accept certain amendments to this H-1B visa bill. 
   In fact, one of the ironies is that of those 10,000 Liberians, many of whom were professionals in their homeland, I suspect at least a few of them are working in these high-tech industries. If they are, the irony is that we would be sending them home so that the high-tech community can complain about losing workers and needing more H-1B visas. I think simple justice demands that we do both, that we press not only for H-1B visas but also for some of the issues that have been addressed by Senator KENNEDY, and the issue in Liberia. These people deserve a chance to adjust their status and become full-fledged Americans. 
   There is some discussion that they should go back to Liberia, but as I have tried to suggest in my remarks, this is a country that is chaotic at best. The Government is really subservient to the leadership of the President, Charles Taylor. It is an area of the world where there are not social services and the basic economics of the country are faulty. I think all of these together suggest compellingly the need to allow the individuals to adjust. 
   I hope in the next few days, or in the remaining days of this legislative session, we will have another opportunity to address this legislatively. I certainly hope that if we are unable to do so, the cause will be taken up by the administration when it comes to discussions for the final legislative initiatives of this Congress, so we will not leave these people once again in a gray area, in a ``twilight zone,'' where they want to stay in this country but face the threat of deportation each and every year. I hope we do better. I am disappointed--gravely disappointed--we did not allow an opportunity to vote on this measure in conjunction with this H-1B legislation. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, like the Senator, I am frustrated because we are trying to simply recognize the reality that there are many, many individuals in the United States who have been here for years and who deserve an opportunity to become permanent residents, and it is not only within the Latino community but the Liberian community. These individuals from Liberia came over legally, under temporary protective status. That is one of the pieces of legislation also frustrated by this device to preclude amendments. 
   I wonder if the Senator might amplify the fact that, indeed, if we were successful to get a vote on this measure, we could also address the issue of 10,000 Liberians who are literally perhaps hours from being deported, except for administrative order, and it is a population that has contributed to our communities; and we should recognize that they deserve the opportunity to adjust to permanent status, and they are being ignored by these parliamentary maneuvers--worse than ignored. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleague, the junior Senator from Vermont, in introducing legislation that I hope will resolve an issue that has needlessly confined Medicare beneficiaries receiving home health benefits to their residences. Today, my colleague and I are introducing a revised version of a bill we introduced earlier this year. I am pleased that this new legislation, the Home Health Care Protection Act, has the support of several national aging organizations, including the Alzheimer's Association, the National Council on Aging and the National Association for Home Care. 
   The Home Health Care Protection Act seeks to clarify the conditions under which a beneficiary may leave his or her home while maintaining eligibility for Medicare home health services. The Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) requires that a beneficiary be ``confined to the home'' in order to be eligible for services. The current homebound requirement is supposed to allow beneficiaries to leave the home to attend adult day care services, receive medical treatment, or make occasional trips for non-medical purposes, such as going to the barber. However, the definition has been inconsistently applied, resulting in great distress for beneficiaries who are fearful that they will lose their benefit if they leave their home to attend events such as church services. Clearly, the intent of the rule is not to make our frail elderly prisoners in their own homes. The legislation we are introducing today seeks to bring greater clarity to the homebound definition so that they no longer are. 
   I am proud to have worked with my colleague, Senator JEFFORDS, on this issue and hope that we can get this legislation passed before the end of the session. Mr. President, the Home Health Care Protection Act seeks to provide some reasonable parameters that will enable beneficiaries suffering from Alzheimer's, among other chronic and debilitating diseases, to leave their home without worry. This modest legislation would make a real difference to home health beneficiaries in my state of Rhode Island as well as Medicare beneficiaries across the country and I would urge my colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to add my voice to the chorus of support for this legislation, which will have a strong positive impact on the youth of this nation. 
   The first element of this initiative that I would like to highlight are the provisions regarding children's public health. This effort will greatly enhance health promotion and disease prevention directed towards youth, improve access to certain health care services for needy children and bolster resources for pediatric-specific medical research. Children are our most precious resource, and we should do all we can to enable our children to reach their full potential both physically and intellectually. The Children's Public Health Act takes an important step toward achieving this goal by creating an environment where children are able to grow and develop unhindered by the burden of disease. 
   Medical science has made incredible strides in reducing and preventing devastating childhood diseases that were prevalent only a generation ago. Yet, despite these advances in our ability to stem the spread of deadly infectious diseases, there has been an increase in the incidence of chronic and debilitating disorders that afflict children. Specifically, over the past decade, we have seen a rise in the number of children suffering from asthma, autism, and other diseases attributed to poor diet and lack of physical activity, such as diabetes, high cholesterol and hypertension in young children. This legislation sets forth a balanced, creative approach to these troubling pediatric conditions by augmenting pediatric clinical research, while also expanding and intensifying screening, education, outreach, monitoring and training efforts led by State and local public health agencies and other health care providers. 
   There are two specific initiatives that I am especially proud of in this legislation. The first seeks to address an entirely preventable problem that continues to plague far too many children in this nation--lead poisoning. While tremendous strides have been made over the last 20 years in reducing lead exposure among our citizens, it is estimated that nearly one million preschoolers nationwide still have excessive levels of lead in their blood--making lead poisoning the leading childhood environmental disease. 
   Lead is most harmful to children under age six because lead is easily absorbed into their growing bodies, and interferes with the developing brain and nervous system. The effect of lead poisoning on a child ranges from mild to severe. Most often in the U.S., children are poisoned through chronic, low-level exposure to lead-based paint, which can cause reduced IQ and attention span, hyperactivity, impaired  growth, reading and learning disabilities. Children with high blood lead levels can suffer from brain damage, behavior and learning problems, slowed growth, and hearing loss, among other maladies. 
   Timely childhood lead screening and appropriate follow-up care for children most at-risk of lead exposure is critical to mitigating the long-term health and developmental effects of lead. Regrettably, our current system is not adequately protecting children, particularly low-income children, from this hazard. It is estimated that two-thirds of at-risk children have never been screened and, consequently, remain untreated. 
   This legislation takes some of the critical steps necessary to begin to address this problem. Specifically, the bill strengthens the lead program at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention by providing new resources to conduct extensive outreach and education in coordination with other state programs that serve families with children at-risk of lead poisoning, such as WIC and Head Start. The bill also authorizes the implementation of community-based interventions to mitigate lead hazards and establishes guidelines for the reporting and tracking of blood lead screening tests so that we may have more accurate data on the number of lead-exposed children nationwide. The legislation also designates resources for health care provider education and training on current lead screening practices. 
   The second element of this bill that I believe will have a major impact on improving the overall health of children relates to the problem of childhood obesity. Over the past fifteen years, the number of overweight children in this country has doubled. It is estimated that an alarming five million youth 6-19 years of age are overweight, while another six million children are overweight to the point that their health is endangered. 
   Contributing to this alarming trend has been the rise in fast food consumption, coupled with an increasingly sedentary lifestyle where time engaged in physical activity has been replaced by hours playing computer games and watching television. The New York Times recently noted that the average child between the ages of 6 and 11 watches 25 hours of television a week--and this does not include time spent playing video games or on a computer. 
   Another reason for the lack of physical activity in children is the reduction in daily participation in physical education classes. Fewer and fewer States require school districts to offer physical education, despite the fact that children who engage in regular physical activity often perform better in school. We are raising a generation of inactive children that will likely become inactive, chronically ill adults. By not ensuring kids take time to participate in regular physical activity, we, as a society, are doing them a great disservice in the long run. 
   Already, we are seeing younger and younger Americans with the signs of heart disease and diabetes, among other obesity-linked illnesses. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that 60 percent of overweight 5-10 year old children already have at least one risk factor for heart disease, such as hypertension, while the number of children diagnosed with Type II diabetes has skyrocketed. If we continue on this trajectory, obesity-related illnesses will soon rival smoking as a leading cause of preventable death, costing hundreds of thousands of American lives and billions of dollars in health care costs and lost productivity. Clearly, action needs to be taken. 
   This legislation acknowledges this trend and attempts to reverse it through a multi-faceted 
   approach. First, the bill authorizes a new competitive grant program through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to assist states and localities to develop and implement comprehensive school- and community-based approaches to promoting good nutrition and physical activity among children. The bill also calls for greater applied research to improve our understanding of the multiple factors that contribute to obesity and eating disorders and emphasizes the need for a nationwide public education campaign to educate families about the importance of good eating habits and regular physical activity. Lastly, the bill provides for health professional education and training to aid in the identification and treatment of overweight children, children suffering from an eating disorder or children at risk of these conditions. 
   The other major component of this bill is based on S. 976, the Youth Drug and Mental Health Services Act, which originated in the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, and passed the full Senate last year. This legislation reauthorizes programs administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), and also provides many enhancements that will specifically benefit children and adolescents suffering from substance abuse or mental health problems, children who have witnessed violence, and children from families needing substance abuse or mental health treatment and other support services. 
   I am pleased that this legislation includes a provision that I worked on to address the severe shortage of transitional services for youth who are leaving the juvenile justice system. Specifically, the bill addresses this shortage by authorizing grants to local juvenile justice agencies to provide comprehensive community-based services such as mental health and substance abuse treatment, job training, vocational services, and mentoring programs to juvenile offenders. 
   Studies have found that the juvenile population has a special need for these types of services, mental health and substance abuse treatment, in particular. It is estimated that the rate of mental disorder is two to three times higher among the juvenile offender population than among youth in the general population. According to a 1994 Department of Justice study, 73 percent of the juveniles surveyed reported mental health problems, and 57 percent reported past treatment. Also, it is estimated that 60 percent of youth in the juvenile justice system have substance abuse disorders, compared to 22 percent in the general population. 
   Unfortunately, there currently exists little, if any, support for youth who are leaving the juvenile justice system. Many services, such as mental health and substance abuse treatment, provided while the youngster was detained or incarcerated, are discontinued upon their release. Given this breakdown in the continuity of services, it is hardly surprising that of the 4 million youngsters arrested each year, 30 percent are likely to recidivate within the year of arrest. 
   In the handful of places where transitional services have been provided, the results have been outstanding. For instance, in Rhode Island we have a successful program called ``Project Reach.'' Yale University, in its evaluation of Project Reach, found that children receiving transitional services improved dramatically: 80 percent had significant increases in their grades in school; school attendance increased from 50 to 75 percent; and there was a 60 percent reduction in youth encounters with police after enrolling in the program. In addition, there was a 50 percent decrease in out-of-home placement for these children. In other words, children who once had problems so severe that they had to be removed from their homes are now able to remain with their families in their communities. 
   Adequate transitional and aftercare services to prevent recidivism are essential to reducing the societal costs associated with juvenile delinquency, promoting teen health, and fostering safe communities. These provisions recognize the serious gap in services for youth offenders and takes important steps to address this serious deficiency. I am grateful for the inclusion of this critical language in the bill. 
   As I have noted, there are many positive aspects to this legislation. However, I have deep reservations about a particular provision that was retained in the SAMHSA bill that allows all religious institutions, including pervasively religious organizations, such as churches and other houses of worship, to use taxpayer dollars to advance their religious mission. I oppose this ``charitable choice'' language and offered an amendment to modify it when the original legislation was considered in Committee last year. 
   Although charitable choice has already become law as a part of welfare reform and the Community Services Block Grant, CSBG, section of the Human Services Reauthorization Act,  the inclusion of charitable choice in this legislation is particularly disturbing since, unlike its application to the intermittent services provided under Welfare Reform and CSBG, SAMHSA funds are used to provide substance abuse treatment which is ongoing, involves direct counseling of beneficiaries and is often clinical in nature. In the context of these programs it would be difficult if not impossible to segregate religious indoctrination from the social service. 
   Faith-based organizations do have an important and necessary role to play in combating many of our nation's social ills, including youth violence, homelessness, and substance abuse. In fact, I have seen first-hand the impact that faith-based organizations such as Catholic Charities have on delivering certain services to people in need in my own state. By enabling faith-based organizations to join in the battle against substance abuse, we add another powerful tool in our ongoing efforts to help people move from dependence to independence. 
   While there are many benefits that come with allowing religious organizations to provide social services with federal funds, I am concerned that without proper safeguards, well-intentioned proposals to help religious organizations aid needy populations, might actually harm the First Amendment's principle of separation of church and state. The charitable choice provision creates a disturbing new avenue for employment discrimination and proselytization in programs funded by SAMHSA. Under current law, many religiously-affiliated nonprofit organizations already provide government-funded social services without employment discrimination and proselytization. However, the legislation extends Title VII's religious exemption to cover the hiring practices of organizations participating in SAMHSA programs. 
   As I already mentioned, during markup, I offered an amendment that would have addressed this issue by including important safeguards and protections for beneficiaries and employees of SAMHSA funded programs. Specifically, the amendment would have removed the provision that allows religious organizations to require employees hired for SAMHSA funded programs to subscribe to the organization's religious tenets and teachings. Since the bill prohibits religious organizations from proselytizing in conjunction with the dissemination of social services under SAMHSA programs, it seems contradictory to permit religious organizations to require their employees to subscribe to the organization's tenets and teachings when it has no bearing on the provision of services. Second, the amendment would have eliminated the extension of Title VII's religious exemption to cover the hiring practices of organizations participating in SAMHSA funded programs. 
   Ultimately, my proposal would not have reduced the ability of religious groups to hire co-religionists or more actively participate in SAMHSA funded programs. It merely would have eliminated the explicit ability to discriminate in taxpayer-funded employment and left to the courts the decision of whether employees who work on, or are paid through, government grants or contracts are exempt from the prohibition on religious employment discrimination. 
   For the last 30 years, federal civil rights laws have expanded employment opportunities and sought to counter discrimination in the workplace. I recognize that we need the assistance of religious organizations in the battle against substance abuse. However, partnerships with faith-based organizations should augment--not replace--government programs. These partnerships should respect First Amendment protections and not allow taxpayer dollars to be used to proselytize or to support discrimination. I believe we need a far more robust and informed debate before we allow any expansion of current exemptions to Title VII. 
   Nevertheless, this combined legislation has many meaningful provisions that will go a long way towards improving the health and well-being of our children. This legislation not only strengthens pediatric medical research, it also includes important enhancements in maternal and prenatal health as well as several other health promotion and disease prevention initiatives that will greatly enhance the quality of life for children. Similarly, the bill contains elements that will greatly improve mental health and substance abuse services for children and adolescents. 
   I am pleased to have worked on this legislation and look forward to its expeditious passage this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, we have, for many days, been debating the momentous decision of extending permanent normal trade relations with China. 
   At the essence of our debate is a very simple question: Will we continue a policy of economic engagement with China or will we turn away? I believe we have to continue this policy of engagement. We have pursued this policy for almost 30 years. It has contributed to profound change in China. But it has not transformed China into a classical liberal democracy. It has not led to the establishment of a multiparty democracy, with an independent judiciary protecting the rights of China's people, particularly the rights of expression. It has not cramped China's policy which supports the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. But it has placed China on a very different historical trajectory than could have taken place. 
   This notion of the change brought in China came to me with great force last August when I was traveling through China. I was at Dandong on the Yalu River. We were looking across into North Korea. One of our guides pointed out that in the 1950s and early 1960s, North Korea had a higher per capita income. North Korea was seen as the model of socialist development in Asia. North Korea had had a heavy industrial sector that was competitive with many parts of the world. 
   Yet today--at that time last year--we were peering into a country that was starving, that had an economic system in collapse, that we were concerned could be so unstable they could threaten the peace of the region. 
   They did not choose the trajectory of international trade. They did not choose the path of engagement with the West. One can ask: Had China gone that route, had we not tried to engage China, would we be facing today a country with over 1 billion people hermetically sealed in an economically failing and ideologically driven country, armed with nuclear weapons? If we were confronting such a country, I think we would be much worse off than we are today, even with the frustrating and uneven relationship that we have--and we must admit we have--with China. So I believe that we must continue this policy of engagement, which is at the heart of the extension of permanent normal trade relations. 
   China is now a part of the world and the world economy, but it is also still China. It is a mixture of modernity and also a mixture of the old, indeed, the ancient. 
   One of the examples that I have seen in China--this one occurred just a few weeks ago when I was traveling there again--is the contrast in Wuhan. Wuhan is a city on the Yangtze Sea in China. It is an old city, not like the new cities on the coast such as Shanghai and other cities. It is in some respects the Pittsburgh of China. It is a highly intense, heavily industrial city. You can tell that from the extraordinarily bad air pollution. 
   There are two companies we saw. One was the Wuhan Iron and Steel Company. It is right out of the industrial age. Andrew Carnegie would have been right at home, except for the 386 computers that were running the facility. 
   Then we saw another factory, the Yangtze Fiber Optic Company. Modern; it could have been in Silicon Valley in California, producing fiber optic cable, producing it to world standards, initially a product of investment by the Dutch company Phillips, now a wholly owned enterprise by Chinese owners. These are the examples of the economy--the old and the very modern.  
   In addition to that, when you go out into the villages, you see perhaps the truly ancient. As you drive through China, you see 
   individuals hammering away, as they have for thousands of years, repairing bicycles with hammers and not much else. You see farming activities that could go back thousands of years. It is a diverse country. But it is a country that has been profoundly affected by change in its contact with the West over the last several decades. 
   The other factor that is being seen as a result of this contact is the pressures within China generated by this change. We sometimes, and quite rightly, look to the effects on the United States by this trade deal. We presume that the only effects that are felt in China are positive, are beneficial, that in fact they are not going to make difficult choices and decisions. In fact, the reality is they are already seeing the effects of this change, of this contact with the West. 
   In the New York Times recently, there was an article about a factory in China where the workers, who were being let go because of the consolidation of this factory by their Western owners, were seizing the management, were blockading the facility, were effectively revolting from the effects of international trade. 
   There are examples of violence where inefficient state-owned mines and enterprises are threatened with closure and workers are literally rising up to demand that these facilities remain open. 
   So this change has also affected China. This change is recognized by the leadership. I had the opportunity to meet with Zhu Rongji, the Premier, while I was there just a few weeks ago. They understand very well that economic change will lead to political change. They might not welcome it. They might indeed try to avoid it. But they know that political forces, as well as economic forces, are unleashed when markets are open. That is one of the effects we will see through this extension of permanent normal trade relations. 
   For many reasons, I believe to step away would be a mistake. It would immediately embolden those who are our most bitter antagonists within China. It would, in many ways, take away the legitimacy of those forces in China, not liberals, but pragmatists who have sought a relationship with the West, and the United States in particular, that emphasizes trade over hostility, that emphasizes engagement over conflict. 
   To step away would also allow industrial nations around the world to take the benefits of our deal, the benefits of our bilateral relationship, the benefits of open trade with China, while we ineffectively try to use our abstention, our veto of China's entry into WTO, as very ineffectual political leverage to move them. 
   To step away would also represent a serious rupture in our relations with China that could not be explained away as merely a dispute about trade, the technicalities of trade. It would harden attitudes and opinions within China and, indeed, here in the United States at a time when we need a constructive and candid dialogue about our differences. And our differences are real. In order to discuss these differences, in order to maintain this dialogue, the extension of PNTR is essential. 
   It is quite evident at this juncture that a majority of my colleagues in the Senate find these reasons compelling, and PNTR will pass. But looking ahead, we should, at this point, be very cognizant of the possible consequences of PNTR. It will not be a panacea. It will not change China overnight. It will not lead to a huge increase in American exports to China. It will, in fact, create consequences that we may find very difficult. In fact, one of the points I tried to raise with Premier Zhu Rongji is that our expectations of China after PNTR will collide with the reality of China and may, indeed, usher in a period of more tension rather than less. 
   Now China wants desperately to be part of this commercial system that is made up of the United States and our major trading partners--for want of a better term, ``first world'' countries--all in precise terms, all carrying a sense of who the players are. But this system has some embedded values with which the Chinese will have to come to grips. 
   Our system emphasizes the protection of property rights. It also emphasizes the expectation of the regularity of governmental action. 
   That is a polite term for ``no corruption.'' That is at the heart of our trading system. China has to come to grips with that. 
   Moreover, I do not believe China can divorce itself from even more fundamental values that are part and parcel of the world outside of developing countries. They start with respect for human rights, which is at the core of our democratic values, and they include protections for workers and the environment. We may have been unsuccessful in getting into these agreements, with force and with effect, language regarding human rights and worker rights and environmental rights, but no country or economy in the world can operate indefinitely today without recognizing these rights. In a world of increasingly transparent borders, the lessons of the economic, social and, indeed, one would say, moral success which has steadily improved the life of those who live in market economies in the West, do not escape the people in China and the people around the world. To the extent that they open themselves up to trade, they open themselves up to exposing these values to their own people. 
   China has a monumental task as they embrace this notion of free trade. It is not a one-way street. It is a two-way street. They face the task of transforming a system that is seriously undermined by persistent corruption, that pays scant respect to individual rights, that chooses order over law, and is obsessed with the need to keep millions of people working in an economy dominated by inefficient state-owned enterprises. Add to those domestic problems that are real and palpable the fear that internal disorder will lead to the exploitation of China by outside forces, a situation that dominated Chinese history in the last century and up until the 1940s. 
   In one respect that is one of the major reasons why they are militarily provocative in many ways to us, because to us they look as if they want to, perhaps figuratively, take over the world. In China, they recognize that recently their country was divided by Americans, by British, by Germans, and that their country was ruled by others rather than themselves. All these forces are at play. 
   The tremendous challenge to transform this country, the fear of their own security as a nation, because of these realities, we should not be surprised if China promises today more than it intends or even can deliver tomorrow with respect to these agreements. 
   In an article in the American Prospect, James Mann, who is a very astute observer of China, pointed out that we frequently develop perceptions about China that are different than the reality of China. Many perceive China today as this modern country that is an economic monolith of force, of incredible production, a force of endless and cooperative labor. They also see it as a monolithic political system, with the Communist party dominating, that is capable of turning on a dime, turning the switch left or right. The reality is more complicated. 
   The Chinese Communist Party plays the central role in the country, but it is an institution with internal factions. Some favor engagement with the West. Some disfavor it. Some harken back to the Maoist Cultural Revolution as the zenith of China. Others, quite properly--I hope the majority--reject that as a fantasy. But it is also a central authority that is constantly challenged by its provinces, constantly challenged by local political leaders. And the modernity of China, if you go to Shanghai, if you go to Hong Kong, certainly since it has not been absolved back into mainland China, that rapidly diminishes as you go away from the coast, as you go to the older cities, Wuhan and Shenyang, which years ago was known as Mukden, and as you travel to the small villages. Even with the wholehearted support of the leadership and the commitment of the party, it is hard to make things change. 
   Mann relates a meeting between President Nixon and Mao Zedong 
   in 1973. President Nixon opened with a bit of flattery by saying:     
   The Chairman's writings have moved the nation and have changed the world.  
   Mao, without missing a beat, retorted:   
   I haven't been able to change it. I have only been able to change a few places in the vicinity of Beijing.  
   The power, the capability, the willingness of China to change is questionable. But we know with the advent of WTO, even without WTO, with the continued pressure of interaction internationally, China will have to change. It has to reform inefficient industries while it still tries to maintain current employment and create 18 million jobs a year for new entrants into the labor force. This task alone has led to angry and sometimes violent conflict. It has to overhaul its justice system. It has to root out corruption. It also has to convince a very cynical population, particularly cynical about the Communist Party, that their future is going to be better rather than worse. 
   This is not an apology of China. This is, I hope, a statement of the reality of the challenges they face and the challenges that we have to understand as not only trading partners but as major powers in this world together. 
   In this collision between faithful implementation of WTO rules and the prospect of profound change that faces China, the Chinese leadership will be more than tempted to delay or undermine or misconstrue WTO rules. That, I would posit, is a very high probability. When this happens, ironically the business community that is descending upon us today to open up China, to get China into WTO, will descend upon us with equal force and say: Get tougher. And even without scrupulous adherence to the WTO, change is going to come to China. If this change further exacerbates the plight of millions of workers, the leadership could embark on a strongly nationalistic and assertive foreign policy as a means to galvanize support, to distract a disenchanted public from economic shortfalls. This could lead to more proliferation, more bellicose threats to Taiwan, the kind of military rumors that we all find disconcerting when it comes to China. 
   Having said all this, having painted a picture of what, in my view, are some of the realities of China, and having very little confidence that this arrangement will be adhered to scrupulously and fairly and routinely and quickly, one might ask: Then why do it? 
   We might not be getting a lot out of PNTR. Indeed, by voting for PNTR, we may only be trading the certainty of hostility for the chance to continue a relationship that is frustrating at best. But this relationship is critical to stability in the region and around the globe. For this reason, national security reason, if you would so describe it, this opportunity for stability, opportunity for time to work out some of these very fundamental problems is worth the effort. 
   We should also understand, as I have described the rigorous change that might come to China, that this agreement will not be painless for the United States. There will be economic sectors, communities, families who will see their lives changed. We hope for the better, but we know that change works both ways. Industries are less competitive in certain cases. Products can be produced more efficiently, more effectively, more cheaply overseas, displacing American workers. So we have to recognize, too, that our response to this issue is not simply passing this legislation this week. It is continuing our efforts, indeed, redoubling our efforts to ensure that we have an education system in the United States that can prepare people for this world of intense competition, that we have a health care system that will allow families, particularly children, to have access to the best care in the world, that we will have a disciplined fiscal policy in this country that will provide the foundation, along with sensible monetary policy, for the continued expansion of our economy so that those economic benefits can flow not only to the very few but to all Americans. 
   Our task is not to reject PNTR. Our task, if we accept PNTR, which I suspect we will, is to ensure that our efforts are directed to improve the quality, the competitiveness, the abilities of our workers. When we do that, we will have much less to fear about the disruptive change that will come through PNTR. 
   Now, I have spent some moments speaking about the major themes I see emerging with respect to PNTR in relationship to China. Let me take a few more moments to talk about the tangible aspects of this legislation before us. This legislation is unlike other trade arrangements that I have debated and voted upon, specifically regarding NAFTA, where we were lowering our tariff barriers and opening our markets, and we were looking at a comparable lowering of barriers in Mexico. 
   This is a situation where our markets are already open to China. Our markets have been open for years. This is the first time, though, we have had meaningful tariff reduction by the Chinese, meaningful elimination of nontariff barriers by the Chinese, opening up of a broad range of American industry--industrial, service industries, all of them--so that they can enter into China, allowing our companies to operate without necessarily having Chinese partners, allowing our companies to have their own distribution systems within China. This is a deal, economically, that represents concessions by the Chinese in terms of tariff barriers, nontariff barriers, entry of American business, and investment with very little, if any, concessions on our part because the reality is we have already, in effect, made those concessions years and years ago. 
   The agreement binds tariff rates that China will charge on our goods because of the WTO framework, so that it can't unilaterally raise the tariffs. As I mentioned before, it covers a broad array of American products, banking, insurance, telecommunications, business, and computer services--all of which have had a difficult time getting into China. It also attempts to protect in a very meaningful way potential surges in goods of China coming in to the U.S. It allows us to use some domestic dumping tools that we already have in our legal inventory. It has gone a long way to try to counteract a surge of Chinese products coming in. 
   But opponents, and indeed proponents, of this legislation point out an inescapable fact: We are running huge trade deficits to the world and, in particular, China. These trade deficits are something we have to deal with. Coincidentally, today, it was just announced that the trade deficit has hit an all-time high. It continued to break records this spring as foreigners kept pouring investment into the American economy and Americans stepped up their buying of foreign goods. We have a huge problem with our trade deficit. It is a ticking time bomb. China is a big part of it, but China is not the only part of it. 
   Interestingly enough, a rapidly increasing percentage of American imports now comes from nations where wages are actually higher than in the United States--including Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, and Austria. They all enjoy booming exports from the United States. The current stereotypical thinking is that cheap wages in China is why they proliferate all their goods, and that is our problem; we are competing the heck out of the old European countries. But it turns out that is not the case either. In this world, company productivity, efficiency, quality in the workforce, and to be productive are just as determining. 
   My point in all of this is that we have a trade deficit, but it is not solely, exclusively a function of China. I believe the response to that is not rejecting PNTR. It is first recognizing consciously the difficulty and beginning consciously and deliberately with respect to all of our trading partners to get more American products into their markets, to properly look at the techniques they are using to get their goods into our market, and to, in effect, look at this problem not as a Chinese problem but as an American problem. And it will be an American problem if we do not pay sufficient attention. It will be manifested in a sudden and rapid deterioration of our currency if enough forces come into play. 
   At present, we are living in a world in which the security of 
   the American market, the attractiveness of our investments, rules and regulations of the SEC, and a host of other things, make America a safe haven, a place where you want to put your money. But there may come a day when investors--and not principally Chinese investors, but others--decide they are going to start selling American currency short because they can put the money elsewhere.  
   Now, we have all seen the benefits of trade with China. I have seen it in Rhode Island. It has been growing from a very small base to a moderately larger base, and it continues to grow. In fact, years ago, one of the first glimpses I had of the global economy was going to an Italian parade on Federal Hill in Providence, RI, meeting a gentleman with whom I chatted. I took him to be a jewelry worker or somebody who worked in the plant. It turns out he owned that business in Rhode Island. We were chatting and he asked me, ``Have you ever been to China?'' That was 5 or 6 years ago. Then, he casually said he owned an aerosol factory in Beijing. So I knew when you go to an Italian festival in Providence and chat with a businessman and he owns an aerosol factory in China, the world is getting much smaller. It is happening all across the country. 
   What we have tried to do in this agreement--we, the negotiators--is to recognize that some of our products that are very dear to the hearts of our economy will get some benefits. For example, on precious metals and jewelry--a huge part of our economy and still an important part--China will reduce its tariffs from 40 percent to 11 percent. That, we hope, will help. In terms of information technology products, that is something we would like to be a bigger part of our economy, but it is a growing part. China will eliminate all duties on computers, electronics, fiber optic cable, as well as on scientific and measuring equipment. We have some of the oldest industrial measuring companies in the world, such as Browne and Sharpe; they, too, will benefit. And there are several more products where we can see advantages that will accrue directly to my home State of Rhode Island. 
   Also, there is just a general benefit to the businesses and workers of America. It is very much manifested in small- and medium-size businesses because they are doing more and more trade with China. It has doubled in the last 5 years from about 3,100 small- and medium-size businesses trading with China to about 7,600 trading today. That should increase even more. Part of this arrangement in the President's proposal in terms of making PNTR work is making the Department of Commerce more active in promulgating trade with China--going out and educating small- and medium-size businesses about the advantages of trade with China, and show them through web sites and informational brochures how to get into the Chinese market. Once again, I believe--and maybe this is the essence of our mutual faith in this country--that once our business-people and our workers have the idea and the knowledge to go out and do something, they are going to do it and do it very well. 
   As I mentioned previously, we have already built in some protections against inevitable, or at least possible, surges of Chinese imports into our country. We have special provisions that will last 12 years, which deal with market disruptions and will not be limited to any one product but to all the products the Chinese may export to this country. We also will still have access to sections 301 and 201, and anti-dumping mechanisms that are American laws, but the Chinese have agreed to allow them to be used in this transition and in this implementation of PNTR and WTO. 
   Congressman LEVIN of Michigan, as part of the bill we are considering today, has also created an executive-legislative commission that will oversee not only the trade impact but also the human rights issues that have been raised time and time again on this floor. This commission will be another vantage point from which we can assess and evaluate our relationship with China and their fidelity to the agreements they have signed. 
   The long and the short of it is that this is an agreement in its details which gives advantages to the United States which will help us and which I believe should be supported. 
   We are at a point where this measure I believe will pass. We are at a point at which we are embarking on a continuation of our relationship with China, but again a relationship that is still troubling to many. 
   PNTR will not cure all the defects we see in China, nor eliminate all the defects they see in the United States. But it will continue to give us a framework to be engaged. It will continue to give us the opportunity and the time to work at some of these very fundamental problems. It will challenge the Chinese in many respects to do as much as we will be challenged --some would argue, even more. 
   We, fortunately, have a system of government that is not dominated by a bureaucratic--and one would say anachronistic--single party. We have a citizenry that is educated. We have social networks. We have Social Security. We have Medicare. 
   China--which is one of the ironies of that great socialist bastion--has no system of national health care, has no system of pensions, has no system of Social Security. It is all tied into the terribly inefficient state-owned enterprises. And if they try to change these state-owned enterprises, they are going to have to create, in effect, a social welfare system, which we already have in place. 
   But I also don't want to minimize the fact that in the lives of many American families, this legislation could force change. But the opportunity to continue this engagement, the opportunity to insist that the Chinese not only participate in a world order but be responsible for values of that order, is an opportunity I don't think we can pass up at this time. 
   I will support this measure. I also look forward to the opportunity to come back here again when, in implementation, we see that they fall short; when, in implementation, they see us as falling short; but just the opportunity, and I think to be able to have a forum to carefully discuss these issues. It is better than turning away from China. It is better than inducing hostilities. It is better than the alternative. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to voice my objection to a particular provision of the Fiscal Year 2001 Defense Appropriation Act. Overall, I believe this legislation does much to meet the needs of the U.S. military. However, I believe that a provision relating to the procurement of C130Js sets a dangerous precedent which may jeopardize the military readiness of our nation. 
   The Air Force requested two C130J aircraft in the FY01 budget. No other aircraft presently in the Air Force inventory can do what the C130 does. It is capable of taking cargo into small, unimproved airfields where larger, jet engine aircraft are not capable nor designed to go. The C130 is our only ``intra theater'' airlift, unlike the C17s, C141s and C5 which are ``inter theater'' airlift. 
   Each year that the Air Force has received appropriations for C130Js, it has assigned the aircraft to those units in its total force which were in greatest need. In 1978, the Air National Guard even developed sound guidelines, based on objective criteria, to ensure that the units with the most aged and corroded aircraft received replacements first. This allocation method has been fair and effective and ensured that all units of our Air Force are modernized in an appropriate manner. 
   For the past twenty-one years the Air Force has had the authority to determine where newly acquired aircraft were assigned--and the units most in need received the planes. However, many units are still flying planes which first flew in Vietnam and are rapidly reaching the end of their useful service life. 
   This year, however, the Defense Appropriations Act directs that the two C130Js go to Western States Air National Guard units for firefighting. First, let me say that I am sympathetic to anyone at risk for forest fire damage. However, I question whether firefighting should be the determining factor for the allocation of military aircraft, particularly when the aircraft in this bill would be used to replace existing firefighting aircraft. Secondly, the designation of these aircraft for Western States deviates from the guidelines which the National Guard designed and has followed for the past twenty years. These aircraft units are not at the top of the Air Force's priority replacement plan. Lastly, and most importantly, the inclusion of this directive language could set a very bad precedent. This would be the first time Congress has usurped the authority of the Air Force in determining which units should receive new C130 aircraft. 
   It is my hope that this provision is an exception to the rule and that next year the Congress will not override the decision of the Air Force to allocate aircraft based on an objective evaluation of need. I hope that, and will work to ensure that, Congress allows the Air Force to exercise its judgement in deciding which units should be modernized with any aircraft approved in the budget process. To do otherwise raises serious doubts about our commitment to military readiness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate Heidi Kirk Duffy upon her receipt of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, First Class. 
   Heidi was selected to receive the Order of Merit to recognize her ``outstanding contribution to the development of academic and economic interchanges between universities and companies of the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany.'' The Order of Merit will be bestowed upon Heidi in particular recognition of her commitment to the cultivation of a strong relationship between the University of Rhode Island's International Engineering Program and the Federal Republic of Germany. 
   A native of the Dusseldorf area, Heidi is currently the Chair of the Advisory Board of the University of Rhode Island's International Engineering Program. At the conclusion of this five-year program, graduates receive two degrees, one in English and the other in German. Recently, the University of Rhode Island has also added degrees in Spanish and French. This International Engineering Program is considered to be one of the most unique programs of its kind in American higher education. 
   Under her direction, the University of Rhode Island's Engineering Program provides both German and American students a global education. Due to Heidi's dedication and hard work, the Program has been truly successful in strengthening a transatlantic relationship between the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany. 
   Heidi was notified earlier this year by the Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. P.C. Hauswedell, that she had been selected to receive the Order of Merit. The Verdienstkreuz 1. Klasse des Verdlenstordens der Bundesrepublik Deutschland, as it is known in German, is one of the highest honors give to civilians by the Federal Republic. She will receive the Order of Merit on Friday, August 4th at ceremonies in her honor in the Rhode Island Capital. 
   I congratulate Heidi for her accomplishments and wish her luck as she continues in her endeavors.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the current posture of the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill on the floor. It seems to me that we are in the doldrums. Our sails are unfurled, the crew is at their positions, but the ship is not moving. There are many reasons for that. But I suggest one of the principal reasons is that over the last several months--indeed, throughout this entire Congress--the leadership has taken it upon themselves to essentially try to nullify the President's constitutional authority to appoint judges to the Federal courts. 
   Article II, section 2 of the Constitution is quite clear that the President has the right to appoint Federal judges, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate. But what has happened with increasing enthusiasm is that these appointments arrive here and then languish month after month after month after month. At some point, this type of nullification, this avoidance of responsibility under the Constitution, subverts what I believe the Founding Fathers saw as a relatively routine aspect of Government: Presidential appointment and consideration within a reasonable time by the Senate of these appointments. 
   It has not been a reasonable time in so many cases. Repeatedly, appointments to the Federal bench have been made by the President. They have come to the Senate and have been virtually ignored month after month. At some point, we have to be responsible not only to the Constitution, but to the people of the country and act on these appointments. Now, that doesn't mean confirm every appointment. But it certainly, in my mind, means to have a reasonable deliberation, a hearing, and then bring it to a vote. It is far better, both constitutionally and in terms of the lives of individual Americans, to decide their fate, decide whether or not they will serve on the bench in a reasonable period of time than to let them twist slowly in the wind--some for upwards of a year or more. That is what has been happening. It is a reflection of a deeper paralysis within the system. 
   The Senate is not operating as it traditionally has, as a forum for vigorous debate, amendment, and discussion, and after a vigorous debate, a vote. We have seen a situation in which measures are brought to the floor only after concessions are made about the number of amendments, the scope of amendments, and the type of amendments. That is operational procedure that is frequently associated with the other body but which defies the tradition of this body, where we pride ourselves on our ability to debate and amend, to be a place in which serious discussions about public policy take place routinely and just as often decisions are made by the votes of this body. We haven't seen that. 
   We introduced on this floor for consideration--and it has been the pending business now since May--the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Every 5 years, we reauthorize the education policy of the Federal Government--the education policy with respect to elementary and secondary schools throughout this country: the title I program, Professional Development Program, and the Eisenhower Program that assists professional development. Yet this major piece of legislation has come to this floor and then, like judges, has been languishing in the shadows for months now. Why? Well, some suggest it is because the majority doesn't want to consider amendments with respect to school safety and gun violence. Those amendments might cause difficult votes. But in any case, we are likely, this year, not to discharge our routine duty of every 5 years reauthorizing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. We are going to--using a sports metaphor--punt. 
   All of these things together have caused us to stop and essentially ask why can't we refocus our operations, refocus our emphasis, and begin to renew the tradition in this body of debate, wide-open amendment leading to votes with respect to substantive legislation and with respect to appointments by the President to the judiciary and other appointments. 
   That is why I believe we are here in these doldrums. The lights are on. We are assembled, but we are not moving forward. I think we have to begin to look at what we are doing and why we are doing it. Perhaps that is the most useful aspect of this discussion this afternoon--because I hope that eventually we can emerge from these doldrums and begin to, once again, take up the people's business in a reasonable and timely fashion leading to votes after debate. Some may go the way we want. Some may not. But in the grand scheme of things, when we are debating and bringing the principles of the debate to conclusion by voting, we are discharging the responsibility that the American people entrusted to us when they elected us to the Senate. 
   There are many examples of what we could be doing if we adopted this approach. For example, I have an amendment which I would like to introduce with respect to this Treasury-Postal bill regarding the enforcement of our firearms laws in the United States. 
   We hear time and time again--particularly by the opponents of increased gun safety legislation--that all we have to do is enforce the laws. Yet in the past we have seen the erosion of funds going to the ATF for their enforcement policies. I must say that this year's Treasury-Postal appropriations bill has moved the bar upwards in terms of funding appropriate gun safety programs, and I commend the Chairman and Ranking Member for their effort. But there are two areas in which they have failed to respond. One is the youth crime gun interdiction initiative by the ATF. 
   I would request in my amendment an additional $6.4 million, which would bring it up to the funding requested by the President. This, to me, is an absolutely critical issue--not only in the sense of making sound public policy, but critical because in every community in this country we are astonished  by the ease of access to firearms by youngsters. We are horrified by the results of this access to firearms. 
   A few weeks ago in Providence, RI, we were absolutely devastated by the murder of two young people. They had been in Providence on Thursday evening at a night club. They left. One youngster was working and the other was a college student. They were chatting by their car, waiting to go to their homes that evening when they were carjacked by five or six young men. They were driven to a golf course on the outskirts of Providence. Then they were brutally killed with firearms. 
   Where did these accused murderers get these firearms? It is a confused story. But there was an adult, apparently, who had lots of weapons. Either they were stolen from this individual, or he lent the firearms to one of these young men. But, in any case, this is one of those searing examples of young people having firearms being desperate, being homicidal, and using those weapons to kill two innocent people. 
   The program, which is underfunded in this appropriations bill, would authorize the ATF to work with local police departments to develop tracing reports to determine the source of firearms in juvenile crimes. 
   There was some suggestion initially and anecdotally that most of these firearms were stolen, but then preliminary research suggested not; that, in fact, there is an illegal market for firearms and that too many weapons used by juveniles in these heinous crimes are obtained in this illegal firearms market. 
   This type of information is extremely useful in terms of designing strategies to interdict access to firearms by youth perpetrators. We need this kind of intelligence in the Nation, if we are going to construct appropriate programs that are going to deal with this problem. 
   This, again, is a reflection of what I sense happened in Providence. It is unclear precisely what happened. But here you have the possibility that the individual with the firearms either 
   sold them or lent them, got them into the hands of young people who, in turn, used them to kill other young people. 
   It would be extremely useful if we knew collectively and not only individually how these weapons moved through our society, because without this knowledge it is very hard to create counterstrategies. 
   That is one important aspect--these trace reports--for appropriations that I will seek to move today with respect to appropriations. 
   Indeed, the Senate Appropriations Committee report emphasizes the importance of the partnerships that are underlying this initiative, and underlying also the ability to deal with the incidents of youth firearm crimes. In their words:  
   The partnership between ATF and local law enforcement agencies in these communities--  
   The communities that are already participating in this program--  
   is invaluable to the mutual effort to reduce gun-related crimes. The tracing information provided by ATF not only allows local jurisdictions to target scarce resources to investigations likely to achieve results, but also gives ATF the raw data to be able to investigate and prosecute the illegal source of these crime guns. The Committee continues to believe that there are significant disruptions in these illegal firearms markets directly due to investigative leads arising from this regional initiative.  
   Frankly, the committee recognizes that this is a useful initiative. I would like to see it fully funded. That is something we could be talking about. Indeed, I hope we can move to incorporate that within the appropriations bill that is before us. 
   There is another important firearms enforcement measure that was not funded by the committee which I would like to see funded, and that is the national integrated ballistics information network. I would like to see that appropriation moved up by $11.68 million to meet the President's request. This would integrate two systems that try to identify bullets based upon their ballistic characteristics so they can be more useful in investigating crimes. 
   The ATF has an integrated ballistics identification system, which is called in shorthand IBIS. The FBI has what they call the ``drugfire'' ballistic system. I have seen demonstrations of these systems. They are remarkable. They recover a slug at a crime scene. They take it to a lab, which has the computer equipment that is designed to run this system. They are able to identify the characteristics of the particular slug that is being examined and then, through their data banks, match it up with a known group of slugs, make a positive identification, and the positive identification leads, in many cases, to the arrest, or certainly to the identification of the weapon that was used. It is very similar to fingerprinting, with which we are all familiar. 
   We have these two systems. They work very well independently. But they would work much better if their databases were combined; if the source was engineered to cooperate and work interdependently. That is what this appropriation would do. 
   We have seen success already. Both of these systems, working independently, have produced more than 8,000 matches and 16,000 cases. For the first time we can take a slug from a crime scene, match it up with known weapons, leading, hopefully, to arrests and ultimately conviction. In a way, it is not only like fingerprints, it is like DNA, like all the scientific breakthroughs we are able to use to more effectively enforce the laws and bring lawbreakers to justice. 
   I hope we can use this system more effectively by integrating the two programs, the ATF program and also the FBI program. 
   One of the reasons I am offering this amendment is to ensure we have the money this year. There is a 24-month proposed schedule for the deployment of this system. The work has been done, the plans have been done, but if we do not appropriate sufficient money in fiscal years 2001 and 2002, then we will fall short of this scheduled deployment. We will create a situation in which, again, when we ask why the American people get so frustrated with government, the situation in which we have been planning, we have been expending money, we are all ready to move forward on an initiative that will materially aid law enforcement authority, and then we stop short and go into a hiatus for a year, and maybe at the end of the year start again. But, more than likely, it will be more expensive, and we have lost months or years in terms of having effective tools for our law enforcement authorities. That is one of the frustrations. It is frustration based upon our inability to be able to move efficiently and promptly to do the people's business. 
   I hope we can deal with this issue of both the youth crime gun interdiction initiative and the national integrated ballistics information network. These are the types of appropriations measures we should not only be talking about, but we should be voting for. Again, we are in this predicament because there has been such a conscious, overt effort on the part of the leadership to deflect consideration, deliberation, and decision on so many important issues that are critical to the future of America. Lifetime tenure on Federal courts is being withheld because there is a hope, an expectation on one side, that these judges will go away, these nominees will go away, in 6 or 9 months. 
   I don't think that is what the American people want Congress to do. They want Congress to either approve or disapprove, but they want Congress to act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am aware of that. It is one of the situations where, after months and months of cooperating, of trying to accommodate, mutually, the desire and the recognition of getting things done, at some point when we see no movement with respect to our constitutional obligation to confirm judges, no real movement, when we see the elementary and secondary education bill that has been put out to languish and perhaps not to see the light of day for the rest of the year, when we see a process in which the price of bringing a bill to the floor is an agreement to surrender the rights of individual Senators to amend that legislation, to make that amendment  process subject to the approval of the majority leader, when we see all those things, what I think we have to do and what we must do is insist that we get back, away from that process of majority oppression. Perhaps that is too melodramatic. We have to get back to the rules of the Senate, the spirit of the Senate, which, I believe, is open debate, open amendment, and a vote. 
   Frankly, if that were the rule that was forthcoming from the 
   majority leader, if the majority leader said, bring ESEA back, open up the amendment process, vote; when we finish the amendments, if the debate goes too long, in my prerogative, after long debate, I will enter a cloture motion--that is the way the Senate should operate. I suggest that is not the way this Senate is operating. That is why we are here today. 
   There is responsibility for every individual Senator for what happens on the floor of the Senate. Certainly the management of the Senate is within the grasp and the control immediately of the majority leader and the majority. That control has been deliberately, I think, to thwart the nomination and the confirmation of judges and deliberately to frustrate legislation important to the American people because there might be amendments that are uncomfortable for consideration by some in this body. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Reclaiming my time, essentially what the Senator is arguing, by implication, is that the majority leader has the sole responsibility and sole prerogative to pick who will come to this floor for consideration as a judge. 
   I am amazed at this whole process. Look at judges who have been pending for almost a year and their names are not coming to the surface. That is something more at work than the breaks of the game. That is a deliberate attempt by the majority to suppress the nomination of individual judges. 
   Frankly, an offer to bring some judges to the floor is, in my view, insufficient unless that offer was transparent, saying we will begin to work down the judges who have been pending longest, with perhaps other criteria, such as districts or circuits that need judges. 
   But that is not how it is working. These magnanimous offers of bringing up a couple of judges--I believe I saw yesterday where three judges from Arizona were just nominated by the President, and they already have hearings scheduled. We have other judges who were nominated over a year ago, and they have not even had a hearing, a year later. Some magnanimous gestures by the majority leader are self-serving and ultimately had to be rejected by the minority. 
   I respect the Senator, but I will continue my discussion on some other points. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. The youth crime gun interdiction initiative and the national integrative ballistics information network are important issues. Those are the issues we are talking about. They are a subset of what I argue is the larger issue. 
   The larger issue: Is the Senate going to be the Senate? Or is it some type of smaller House of Representatives where the leadership dictates what is coming to the floor, what judge's name might come up, what bill might come up, what amendment might come up, when it all comes about? That, I think, is the key point. 
   Let me take up another key point in terms of the demonstration of why we are not doing our duty. We have before the Senate a very difficult vote on extending permanent normal trade relations to China. It is a very difficult vote. We know that. It is a vote that bedeviled the House of Representatives. It was controversial. It was difficult. But after intense pressure and vigorous debate, the House of Representatives brought it to a conclusion and voted. 
   Now that measure is before the Senate. It is controversial. It is, like so many other things, languishing. It could have been accomplished weeks ago. The business community would argue vociferously it should have been accomplished weeks ago. It has been couched in many terms, but one term I think is most compelling is that it is a critical national security vote. It is a critical national security vote. Yes, it is about trade. Yes, it is about economic impacts within the United States and around the world. But it is also about whether or not we will continue to maintain a relationship of engagement with China, or if we reject it, or if we delay it indefinitely and open up the distinct possibility of confrontation and competition with China. 
   Yet this critical national security vote, this critical vote which is probably the No. 1 objective of the business community in this country, again languishes. 
   Some would say there are reasons. We want to talk about Senator THOMPSON's and Senator TORRICELLI's amendment about proliferation. But, again, it is symptomatic of a situation in which the Senate is not responding as it should to its constitutional and to its public responsibilities because of the political calculus. 
   Our side is not immune to political calculation. But the leadership of this body has created a situation in which avoidance of difficult issues, nullification of constitutional responsibilities and obligations to confirm judges, and deferment of critical national security issues for short-run advantages, is the standard of performance. I believe that is not the role the Senate should play and that is the heart of this discussion today. 
   Let me suggest one other point with respect to the business of the body. We confront a range of issues that deal with those world-shaking, momentous issues like China trade policy; issues with respect to domestic tranquility; the safety of our streets; the funding of the appropriations bills for law enforcement when it comes to firearms. 
   Then there are issues that are not important to the vast number of Americans in the sense it doesn't affect them directly but are critically important to many Americans. One is a measure I have been trying to find the opportunity to bring to the floor, and that is to somehow help the Liberian community in this country who came here in 1990, in the midst of their violent civil war, and who for the last decade have been in the United States. They have been residing here. They have been contributing to our communities. Many of them have children who are American citizens. Yet they are in a position where they face deportation October 1. The clock is ticking. 
   This is not an issue that is going to galvanize parades through every Main Street in America. But for these roughly 10,000 people who are caught up in this twilight zone while they are here, they want to remain here with their children, many of whom, as I said, are Americans, but they face a prospect of being deported back to a country that is still tumultuous, still dangerous, still threatening to them and many others. 
   This is legislation that has been supported by Senator CHAFEE, my colleague from Rhode Island, Senator HAGEL, Senator WELLSTONE, Senator KENNEDY, Senator LANDRIEU, Senator KERRY, and Senator DURBIN, legislation that will materially assist these individuals. But, once again, we are not moving with the kind of rapidity that allows for the easy accommodation of this type of legislation on the floor. I hope it does come up soon, but I think it represents the cost of this overcontrol and this inflexibility, perhaps, that we are seeing as the management leadership style here today. 
   Let me just briefly set the stage about the need for this legislation. Liberia is a country that has the closest ties of any African nation to the United States--it was founded by freed slaves in the middle 1800s. Its capital is Monrovia, named after President Monroe. It is a country that did its utmost  throughout its existence in the 1800s and the 1900s, to emulate American Government structure, at least. But it erupted into tremendous violence in 1989 and 1990. Over the next several years, 150,000 people fled to surrounding countries. Many of them came to the United States--many being about 14,000. In March 1991, the Attorney General recognized that these individuals needed to be sheltered, so he granted temporary protected status, or TPS. 
   Under TPS, the nationals of a country may stay in the United States without fear of deportation because of the armed conflict or extraordinary conditions in their homeland. People who register for TPS receive work authorizations, they are required to pay taxes--and this is precisely what the Liberian community has done in 
   the United States. They went to work. They paid taxes. However, they do not qualify for benefits such as welfare and food stamps. Not a single day spent in TPS counts towards the residence requirement for permanent residency. So they are in this gray area, this twilight zone. They have stayed there now for 10 years because the situation did not materially change for many years. 
   Each year, the Attorney General must conduct a review. The Attorney General did conduct such a review and continued to grant TPS until a few years ago, until the fall of 1999, when the determination was made that the situation in Liberia had stabilized enough that TPS was no longer forthcoming. 
   At that, many of us leaped to the fore and said the situation has changed. The situation has changed in Liberia, but it has also changed with respect to these individuals here in the United States. They have established themselves in the community. They have become part of the community. Their expectations of a speedy return to Liberia long ago evaporated and they started to accommodate themselves--indeed many of them enthusiastically--to joining the greater American community. 
   The situation changed in Liberia. The change there was more procedural than substantive. What happened was the situation in which there was an election, which was monitored by outsiders, which elected a President, the former warlord, Charles Taylor. 
   Based upon this procedural process change, the State Department and others ruled, essentially, that the situation was now ripe for the return of Liberians from the United States and surrounding countries to Liberia. But at the heart, the chaos, the economic disruption, the violence within Liberia did not subside substantially. As a result, Liberians here in the United States have genuine concerns about their return to Liberia. What has happened most recently, because this is an evolving situation, is that Charles Taylor, the President, again, duly elected President, has not renounced all of his prior behaviors because it is strongly suggested that he has been one of the key forces who is creating the havoc in the adjoining nation of Sierra Leone. 
   All of us have seen horrific photographs of the violence there, of children whose arms and hands have been cut off by warring factions in Sierra Leone. The Revolutionary United Front is one of the key combatants in that country. Part of this is an unholy alliance between Taylor and the Revolutionary United Front for the purpose of creating, not only mischief, but also for exploiting diamond resources within Sierra Leone for the benefit of Taylor and the benefit of others. But all of this, this turmoil, once again, suggests that Liberia is not a place that is a stable working democracy where someone, after 10 years of living in the United States, could return easily and gracefully and immediately. 
   Last year at this time, after being approached by myself and others, the Attorney General determined that she could not grant TPS again under the law. But she did grant Deferred Enforced Departure, or DED, to Liberians, which meant the Liberians could remain in the United States for another year but essentially they are being deported. It is just stayed, delayed for a while. They have been living in this further uncertainty for the last year. 
   My legislation would allow them to begin to adjust to a permanent residency status here in the United States, and hopefully, ultimately, after passing all of the hurdles, to become citizens of this country. 
   They arrived here, as I said, about 10 years ago. They came here with the expectation that they would have a short stay and would be home, back in their communities, back in Liberia, but that expectation was frustrated, not by them but by the violence that continued to break out throughout Liberia. 
   Now they have established themselves here. They are part and parcel of the community, and they are extremely good neighbors in my State of Rhode Island, as well as in other parts of this country. I believe equity, fairness, and justice require that we offer these individuals the opportunity to become permanent resident aliens and ultimately, as I said, I hope they will take the opportunity to become citizens of this country. 
   Our immigration policy is an interesting one, idiosyncratic in many cases, but it is important to point out there are several other countries around the globe that have already dealt with a problem like this: Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, and Great Britain. After a certain length of time, even if you are there temporarily--certainly 10 years is a sufficient time--you can, in fact, adjust your status to something akin to permanent resident of the United States and pursue citizenship. 
   We have done this before. We have made these types of adjustments for other national groups that have been here and for many of the same reasons: Simple justice, length of stay, connections to the community of America, continued turmoil in their own countries. For example, in 1988 we passed a law to allow the Attorney General to adjust to permanent status 4,996 Polish individuals who had been here for 4 years, 387 Ugandans who had been here for 10 years, 565 Afghanis who had been here for 8 years, and 1,180 Ethiopians who had been here for 11 years. 
   The 102nd Congress passed a law which allowed Chinese nationals who had been granted deferred enforced departure after Tiananmen Square to adjust to permanent residency. Over the next 4 years, 52,968 Chinese changed their status. 
   In the last Congress, we passed legislation known as NACARA. Under this law, 150,000 Nicaraguans, 5,000 Cubans, 200,000 El Salvadorans, and 50,000 Guatemalans who had been living in the United States since the eighties were eligible to adjust to permanent residency status. A separate law allows Haitians who were granted DED to adjust to permanent residency. 
   As one can see, we are not setting a precedent. We are doing what we have done before in response to similar motivations: fairness, length of stay here, turmoil in the homeland to which we propose to deport these individuals. 
   Another important point is why we believe we have a special obligation to Liberia. As my colleagues know--and I have mentioned before--this is a country that shares so much with the United States. 
   In 1822, a group of freed slaves in the United States began to settle the coast of western Africa with the assistance of private American philanthropic groups and at the behest of the U.S. Government. In 1847, these settlers established the Republic of Liberia, the first independent country in Africa. Five percent of the population of Liberia traces their ancestry to former American slaves. They modeled their constitution after ours. And they used the dollar as their currency. 
   Before the 1990 civil war, the United States was Liberia's leading trading partner and major donor of assistance. When Liberia was torn apart by civil war, they turned to the United States for help. We recognized that special relationship, and we offered aid to Liberia. We offered it, as I said, to assist those who were fleeing destruction and devastation. We should continue to do that. We have had a special relationship with Liberia over history, and we have formed a special relationship throughout this country with those communities of Liberians who have been here for a decade and who seek to stay. 
   Again, this is some of the legislation we could be considering, some of the legislation with which we could be dealing if we had a process that allowed that free flow of legislation to the floor. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that two letters be printed in the  RECORD: A letter from Bill Gray, President of the College Fund, and a letter from the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-7-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. These two letters are strong statements on behalf of the legislation, the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act, which I have spoken about and which I ardently desire to see acted upon in this session in the next few weeks. 
   Bill Gray, as many know, is a former distinguished Congressman from Philadelphia, PA. He is now President of the College Fund, which was formerly known as the United Negro College Fund. 
   He points out in his letter the long association between the United States and Liberia and urges that we act quickly and decisively to pass this legislation. 
   The letter from the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service also makes that same plea for prompt and sympathetic action on this legislation. It is signed also on behalf of numerous organizations: the Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services Program; the Episcopal Migration Ministries; the National Ministries of American Baptist Churches USA; the Lutheran Social Services of Minnesota; the Union of American Hebrew Congregations; the United Methodist Church, General Board of Church and Society; and it goes on and on. 
   Again, this is the heartfelt plea by the church community and the religious community in general of this country for a favorable and immediate response to the plight of these Liberians who are here with us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I extend my welcome to President Estrada of the Philippines. The Philippines and the United States are allies. We have a special relationship with them, as we have a special relationship with the country I have been speaking about; that is, the country of Liberia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me conclude my overall remarks by saying, as I began, that we are in the doldrums. We are here but we are not moving. I do not think it is sufficient to simply, on a day-by-day basis, make a little concession here and a little concession there. 
   I think to get this Senate under full sail again, moving forward, proudly, purposefully, is to once again summon up the spirit which I always thought was inherent in this body, the spirit of vigorous and free and open debate, of vigorous and wide-ranging amendment, unfettered by the individual proclivities of the leader, whoever the leader may be, and then, ultimately, doing our job, which is to vote. 
   This afternoon, I have tried to suggest several areas where we have neglected that obligation. With respect to Federal judges, it seems to me that there has been an attitude adopted here that our advice and consent is sort of an optional thing. If we do not choose to do it, then no judges will be confirmed. In a way, it is very subversive to the Constitution. 
   Frankly, I don't think anyone would object if judges were brought to this floor and voted down. That is a political judgment, a policy judgment, a judgment based upon their jurisprudence, their character, a host of issues. But what is so objectionable is this notion of stymying the Constitution by simple nonaction, by pushing it off into the shadows, allowing individual nominees to languish, hoping that no one pays attention to it, and that at the end of the day these judges will go away and more favorable judges will be appointed. I do not think that is the way to operate this Senate. 
   We have legislation, such as the ESEA, which has been permanently--or apparently permanently--shelved, not because there is something inherently wrong with the bill as it has been presented--we can debate the merits of that--but because to bring it back to the floor would invite amendments that might be uncomfortable. I think that is also wrong. 
   Then I think we have a measure which everyone claims is critical to our economy, critical to our future national security, critical to our relationships with Asia and China, particularly, over the next several decades. That, too, has been shunted aside, not because of substance, but because of political calculation. Once again, I think that is wrong. 
   In return, what has been suggested, is: Why don't you take a little of this and a little of that, and we will give you an amendment here, and we just might bring up two judges, but we don't know who they are. That, in comparison, is not an appropriate response to the basic question of: Will the Senate be the Senate? 
   I would hope that we would return to that spirit, that spirit which I think drew us all here initially, with the hope and the expectation that we would debate and we would vote--we would win some; we would lose some--but ultimately, by debating and by voting, and by shouldering our responsibilities--not avoiding them--the American people would ultimately be the great victors in this Democratic process. 
   I hope we return to that spirit. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to acknowledge the 26th anniversary of the Turkish invasion and occupation of Cyprus. Twenty-six years ago today, Turkey seized on a period of political unrest in predominantly Greek Cyprus and invaded its shores. Landing on the north coast of Cyprus with 6,000 troops and 40 tanks, nearly 40 percent of the island was in Turkish control in less than a month, displacing 200,000 Greek Cypriots from their homes. Today, there are still more than 1,600 Greek Cypriots who remain unaccounted for, serving as silent reminders of the unlawful invasion. Turkey continues to defy the international community and United Nations' Resolutions with its policy towards Cyprus, keeping more than 30,000 troops in the north of the island. 
   I believe that if we want to see future progress in resolving the injustices of a divided Cyprus, the United States, European and international organizations must put further pressure on the government in Ankara. It is Turkey's military and financial backing that provides the leverage for the Turkish Cypriot leadership and its unwillingness to make any compromises. Late last year, the European Union accepted Turkey as a candidate for admission into the 15-nation economic bloc. The EU has indicated that resolution on the Cyprus matter is a key condition to Turkey's membership, and it has outlined specific economic and humanitarian standards that must be accomplished. One such condition is an end to restrictions on the human rights of Greek Cypriots living in the occupied northen region. I was pleased to cosponsor my colleague Senator Snowe's Concurrent Resolution 9 to bring attention to this issue. 
   Greece and Turkey are critical members of the NATO alliance and have both been key allies to the United States, supporting our operations in the Balkans and no-fly zones over Iraq. We know the two nations can work together in times of crisis. Last fall, following a massive earthquake in Turkey, Greece was among the first to send aid. Greek rescue teams helped pull Turkish victims from the rubble. Then Greece endured its own deadly quake and Turkey was quick to respond, saving many Greek lives. These examples of bilateral cooperation should also be employed by Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders to demilitarize the island and establish a unified Cyprus with constitutional guarantees for all Cypriots regardless of ethnicity. 
   A new round of proximity talks began on July 5, 2000 between Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders in Geneva, Switzerland. These talks recessed on July 12 but will resume again in early August. Little information has been available due to the mutual observance of a press blackout. However, I hope that these talks will initiate commitments by both sides to come to an agreement. 
   In the past few years we have seen remarkable progress on seemingly intractable international conflicts. Northern Ireland is closer to peace than any time in history and whatever the outcome of the current Middle East Summit, just the fact that Prime Minister Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat have been talking for nine days is of great historic significance. I believe the people of Cyprus want and deserve the same opportunity. This year, the Senate version of the FY01 Foreign Operations Bill again appropriates $15 million to reduce tensions, promote peace and cooperation between the two communities. However, I think we can do more. It is my hope that my colleagues and the Administration will commit to actively assisting the parties in resolving the situation in Cyprus. Then we can commemorate the reunification rather then the division of this Nation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to join my colleagues in expressing my sadness and my condolences in behalf of the family of PAUL COVERDELL. 
   In the more than 3 years that I have had the privilege of serving in the Senate, he was someone who was respected for his work, for his effort, and for his sincere commitment to ensuring that all the viewpoints were heard, and that we moved forward and acted for the people of this country. 
   He was particularly protective, obviously, of his State of Georgia and his constituents because he felt deeply for their needs. He worked hard to achieve benefits for his constituents. He had talent, personality, and character. You could disagree with him, but he was not a disagreeable person. He was a consummate gentleman. He was polite. He was civil. He was approachable. He had those personal qualities that endeared him to all who serve in this body. He was someone respected by all of us. We all admired him. 
   Other colleagues have talked about his many efforts in educational policy, such as his efforts to ensure appropriate response for our military posture around the world. 
   I had the occasion just briefly in the last debate about Colombia to work with him and speak with him. He was committed to ensuring that our policy in that part of the world was not only consistent with our ideals as a democratic nation but also helped decisively stem the tide of drugs that has weakened this country. He did it in his typical fashion--quietly, diligently, without a lot of fanfare but with great success and great results. 
   We shall miss his temperament. We shall miss his commitment to this process. We shall miss his character and his contribution to the country. 
   To his family I offer my sincerest condolences. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000718</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I believe my colleague, Senator GORTON, has a modification to my amendment, which I will accept. He is prepared to offer the modification to my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000718</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for his gracious cooperation. This would increase the money we are committing to the weatherization program so that we could, in fact, provide more assistance to low-income homes to weatherize their homes, both to protect themselves in the cold of winter and the heat of summer. It would also make, we hope, the Nation less dependent on foreign sources of energy. It is an excellent proposal and program. 
   I thank the Senator for his cooperation. 
   Mr. President, I yield back my time and ask for a voice vote on the measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000718</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, Rhode Island and the Nation have lost an extraordinary statesman and patriot, Senator John O. Pastore. Senator Pastore passed away Saturday at the age of 93. He served in this body from December 1950 until January 1977. He served with distinction, he served with integrity, and he served with the utmost commitment to helping the people of Rhode Island and the people of this Nation to achieve the noblest aspirations of this country. He committed his life to public service. Senator Pastore was, in turn, a State representative, an assistant attorney general of the State of Rhode Island, a lieutenant governor, a Governor, and then, for over 26 years, a U.S. Senator. 
   He began his life on March 17, 1907, on Federal Hill, the Italian American community in Rhode Island. It was an interesting combination of a young Italian American born to immigrant parents on St. Patrick's Day. He would never let anyone around forget that he was both proudly Italian and fortuitously Irish--at least for 1 day of the year. He grew up in an immigrant household that was experiencing all the difficulty and travail of people who come to a new land to find themselves and make a better life for their children. It was not glamorous; it was difficult. He endured the difficulties with the same kind of determination that marked his whole life. 
   In his own words:  
   We lived in the ghetto of Federal Hill. We had no running water, no hot water. I used to get up in the morning and have to crank the stove and go out in the back yard and sift out the ashes and come back with a coal that I could recoup. I had to chisel ice with an ice pick in the sink so that I could wash up in the morning. And that was everybody in the family. That wasn't me alone. That was my wife's family. That was everybody's family.  
   The hard, difficult life of a young immigrant family in Providence, RI, in the early part of the century became even more difficult because when Senator Pastore was 9 years old, his father, a tailor, passed away. At the age of 9, he became the man of the family. His mother went to work as a seamstress to support Senator Pastore and four other children. She labored all of her life to do that. 
   Senator Pastore was a bright and gifted student. He progressed through the Providence public schools and finished Classical High School, which was the preeminent public high school in the State of Rhode Island. He did so well that he was offered an opportunity to attend Harvard College so that he could fulfill his dream to become a doctor. He did so well, not only by studying but at the same time supporting his family, working in a jewelry factory in Providence, RI. But the reality and the truth was, he was poor, he was without a father, and he felt the keen obligation to ensure that he protected and helped his family. And so he would forego that opportunity. He was without the funds. He had to work to support his brothers and sisters and help his mother. It is said--and he has said it, in fact--that he wept on the night of his graduation, thinking that his great talent would never be fully utilized, that he would forever be committed to a life of perhaps even menial work. But he did so willingly and voluntarily because he, too, wanted to help his mother and his brothers and sisters to make it in this great country. 
   As we all recognize, all of us who have in any way briefly come in contact with Senator John O. Pastore, he was a man of extraordinary determination. He went to work as a clerk at the Narragansett Electric Company, and during the day he worked hard. But in the evening he enrolled at the Northeastern University Law School extension, held at the Providence YMCA. Those were the days when you could become a lawyer without going to college and then going from college into law school. At night, while working and supporting his family, he became a lawyer. After he became a lawyer, he opened up his practice in the basement of his family's home in Providence. The clientele did not rush to him, frankly, but he also discovered that he  had a knack for politics. He ran as a State representative in the thirties. He was elected twice and, at that point, he began to create a name for himself as an articulate advocate, someone who was a hard-working, determined champion, not only for his people but for all people. 
   He was made an assistant attorney general for the State, and then he was selected to run as lieutenant governor. He served as lieutenant governor for the State of Rhode Island. And then, fortuitously--because the Governor accepted a position in the Democratic administration--he became the first Italian American Governor in this great country. Then, he moved on to the U.S. Senate to become the first Italian American Senator in the history of this country. An extraordinary individual. He came here and worked on so many different issues. He was the chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy at the time when atomic energy was becoming a powerful force in all of our lives. 
   He committed himself to the peaceful use of atomic energy to try to develop its potential to help rather than to destroy. He worked ceaselessly to ensure that we were controlling atomic energy throughout the world. He worked very hard on the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. He worked with many colleagues--some colleagues who are here today--on that landmark legislation. 
   He also served on the Commerce Committee where he was the chairman of the telecommunications subcommittee. I daresay many of the fundamental foundations and principles that have guided this huge explosion of telecommunications that have opened up the cyberspace of the world began years ago under his deliberations on that committee. 
   Also, in 1974 at the end of his career, he was very active in campaign finance reform in the wake of the Watergate affair. 
   Those are accomplishments, but what is so compelling and so emblematic of the man is that his whole life represented something so fundamentally American. He was modest and humble. He seized the opportunity that is America--the chance to succeed. Then he committed himself in his public life, day in and day out, to ensure that every American had those types of opportunities. 
   That is why he and his colleagues in the 1960s embraced the idea of providing educational support to the talented but poor Americans who could get into college but couldn't afford to go to college. That was not some theoretical flourish he discovered in a lecture hall at a great university; that was from his heart, from having lived it, from having seen so many of his contemporaries with the talent, the skills, and the ambition frustrated and thwarted because they didn't have the 
   money to go to college. In so many other ways, he tried to ensure that ``opportunity'' was the watchword of America. 
   His greatest contribution perhaps is the fact that he lived what we all think America should be and is--that someone can rise up from an immigrant household, from a place where English is not the first language, to the highest positions in this country through hard work, dedication, and commitment. That example alone, that inspiration alone, is extraordinarily important to all of us. 
   We in Rhode Island are very lucky because we have a chance to see our public officials close up. All of us have stories about our leaders. In Rhode Island, Senator Pastore was no exception. We all understood early on that he was one of the most extraordinary debaters and oral advocates this body has seen in a very long time. 
   In 1964, President Johnson asked Senator Pastore to be the keynote speaker at the Democratic National Convention. I was 14 years old then. I, as every other Rhode Islander, was crowded around the television set on a hot summer's night waiting for our Senator to speak to the Nation. He spoke in his typical powerful and forceful way. He spoke about justice and opportunity. He spoke about the Democratic Party, and he spoke about our commitment to help everyone. He spoke with both passion and precision. He moved that convention, and he moved the Nation. We will never forget those words. 
   Also, again because of the proximity of everyone to everyone else in Rhode Island, I had the chance to see him when I was a younger person in my early teens because my parents would summer down at Narragansett, RI, and his family would summer there also. It was a very modest summer resort. My father was a school custodian. So this was not exactly the Riviera. But he was there because that is where the people were. That is where he went for his summer vacation. 
   I can remember going to mass on a hot summer's day. We were all lucky just to be in long pants because it was summertime. However, he would be there in his suit and tie looking every inch the sartorial master that he was, with a bearing and a dignity that was beyond senatorial, it was regal, but also with a kindness and a humility that came through equally well. 
   Finally, with a great deal of appreciation and gratitude, Senator Pastore was the individual who appointed me to the military academy at West Point. He gave me the greatest opportunity of my life. He did it in a nonpartisan, nonpolitical way. I had never really met the Senator. I had asked for the appointment. I sent him a letter. He had his staff direct me to take a test. I took a test. I took a physical. I took a physical aptitude test. I still remember the moment when his executive assistant called me and told me I was going to West Point. 
   In my office in Washington I have both his picture and the letter he sent me on that day. In my office in Rhode Island I have his picture and the telegram he sent to follow up. He gave me a great opportunity. I like to think that the good things I have done in a way have been a response to that confidence he showed in me as a very young man. 
   He also was someone who had a great sense of humor about himself and about many things. He once quipped that he was very grateful his parents named him John O. Pastore rather than Giovanni Orlando Pastore because in the latter case his initials would have been ``GOP,'' which is something he would have been 
   hard pressed to deal with because of his very strong Democratic life and career. 
   I can remember also that Senator Mansfield spoke to me one time. He said: You know, every St. Patrick's Day, Senator Pastore insisted that he be the President pro tempore. It was his birthday. He wanted to preside. He also reminded everyone that his name was really John O. Pastore with the accent one would have if one were John O'Rourke, or John O'Neill, or John O'Donnell. 
   He was an extraordinary man. He graced us with a life of service. He graced us with a life that is an example to all of us. He has honored us by doing his best every day, by taking his work much more seriously than himself, and by doing this great work and then quietly and gracefully returning home, back to Rhode Island, to his beloved wife and his family--to his simple life with the people he respected and admired. He is beloved in my State of Rhode Island. He is well deserving of that great love. 
   To his wife, Mrs. Pastore, to his son John, to his daughters Francesca and Louise, to his sisters Elena and Michelina, our sincere condolences. But today we not only commemorate his passing but we celebrate his great life. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I have amendment No. 3798 at the desk, and I ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator KENNEDY and Senator SCHUMER be added as cosponsors of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this amendment would provide an additional $8 million for the Department of Energy's Weatherization Assistance Program. 
   Across the country this summer, Americans have faced unacceptably high gasoline prices. Last winter, our constituents, particularly in the Northeast, saw extraordinary increases in home heating oil prices. 
   Members of this body have offered various proposals to address this issue, ranging from urging OPEC to increase production; increasing domestic crude oil production, by drilling in new areas; building up our refining capacity; and expanding our use of ethanol and alternative fuels. Essentially, all of these proposals are supply side proposals, increasing the supply of energy. 
   In fact, we are reaching a point now where the proposal to encourage OPEC might be running out of time. I note that the Saudi Arabians are asking for a meeting of OPEC in the next few days, because if there is not a meeting immediately, even if there is an increase in production, it will be insufficient in terms of reaching our markets for the winter heating season. 
   All of these supply side proposals are interesting, but we are neglecting an important aspect of the overall composition of the heating market--and that is demand. 
   The weatherization program goes right to this critical issue of demand. By weatherizing homes, by making them more energy efficient, we are literally cutting down the demand for energy, and typically foreign energy. 
   As Congress debates these proposals for supply relief, we should also start thinking seriously about demand reduction. That is critically involved in the whole issue of energy efficiency and weatherization. At the same time, our weatherization program protects the most vulnerable people in our society because they are aimed at the elderly, individuals with disabilities, children, all of them being subject to huge increases in heating costs, not only in the wintertime--that is the case in the Northeast--but in the Southeast and Southwest and the very hot parts of this country in the summertime. 
   In fact, it was not too long ago--several years ago--in Chicago where there was an extraordinary heat spell. People literally died because they could not afford to keep their air-conditioners running, if they had air-conditioning. Or they could not afford to keep paying exorbitant energy costs because their homes were inefficient in terms of retaining the cool air from air-conditioning. So this is a program that cuts across the entire country. 
   The Weatherization Assistance Program supports the weatherization of over 70,000 low-income homes each year. To date, over 5 million American homes have been weatherized with Federal funds, and also local funds, which must be part of the formula in order to provide this type of assistance for American homes. 
   Last December, I had a chance to witness this program in action. I was in Providence, RI, with Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson. We went to a low-income home in Providence. In 
   just a few hours, a contractor was able  to blow in insulation between the walls; they were able to caulk windows and doorways; they were able to conduct tests to ensure that the energy efficiency of the structure had increased dramatically. 
   This was a home of a family of first-generation Americans. They had come from Southeast Asia in the turmoil of the war in Southeast Asia. The father was in his late 40s, early 50s, and had several children--all of them American success stories. The children were in college. His mother was living with them. She was disabled, suffering from Alzheimer's. 
   This is typically the type of families--low-income families, struggling, working hard with jobs, trying to get kids through college--who are the beneficiaries of this program. It is an excellent program. It is a program that is terribly needed by these low-income families. 
   Typically, low-income families will spend about 15 percent of their income on heat--or in the summer, air-conditioning--more than four times the average of more affluent families. Over 90 percent of the households that are served by this weatherization program have annual incomes of less than $15,000. This is a program that works. It works for these individual families. 
   Not only that, it also works for us. It creates jobs. About 8,000 jobs throughout the country have been created because of this weatherization program. It also saves us from consuming and wasting energy. 
   I argue, as I have initially, one should look at the supply side complications of the energy crisis. One should implore OPEC to increase production. One should have sensible problems to ensure supply. But if we neglect the demand part of the equation, we are not only missing the boat, but I think we are deficient in our responsibility to formulate a comprehensive approach to energy efficiency in this country. 
   In 1996, the budget was $214 million, but because of cuts generated by the Contract With America, and other proposals, it dipped down to about $111 million--a significant cut. This was one of those programs that was devastated by the budget policies of the mid-1990s. 
   Since that time, we have added money back because, again, I believe this body particularly recognizes both the fairness and the efficiency of this program. But still we are at about $135 million in fiscal year 2000. 
   That is still 37 percent below the 1996 figure. 
   If we can afford, as Senator KENNEDY said, at length and eloquently, to engage in trillion-dollar tax cuts, multibillion-dollar benefits that go to the very wealthiest Americans, we should be able to at least increase our weatherization funding by $8 million to cover additional families, low-income families, families who have disabled members, families who are working hard trying to get by and need this type of assistance. 
   Again, as we look over the last several weeks, and even this week, talking about relief for the marriage penalty, estate tax relief, it reminds me of a play on Winston Churchill's famous line about the RAF, ``never have so many owed so much to so few.'' We seem to be in a position of saying, never have so few gotten so much from so many. 
   I want to ensure that at least when it comes to weatherization we are responding to the critical needs of families across this country. I had hoped we could move towards the President's request of $154 million. That would be about a 14-percent increase over our present level of $135 million. My amendment does not seek that full increase. It simply seeks an additional $8 million. I think the money will be well spent. The program works. It puts people to work. It helps low-income families. It helps us address a problem which is growing with increasing importance, and that is to control our insatiable demand for energy, particularly petroleum. 
   For all these reasons, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. I hope, perhaps, we can even work out a way in which this amendment can be accepted by the chairman and his colleagues. 
   If it is appropriate, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-20000717</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I do applaud the Senator's efforts over many years to increase this account. He has done that. I think it makes a great deal of sense to provide a local match, which he has, and we would encourage more local participation. It is true we have provided an offset because I recognize that we do not have unlimited free money to put back into the budget. 
   We have taken money from every Federal agency. But I am told that our cut represents .05 percent per agency coming out of travel pay, coming out of administrative overhead. I think that is probably something they could well absorb. I daresay it would not require them to either turn down the heat or turn off the air-conditioning, whereas we are talking about a situation of homes throughout this country where they don't have that luxury. 
   So I agree in principle that we are taking it from agencies, but we are taking such a minute fraction that I think it would be readily absorbed. And we are putting it into a program that is both worthwhile and necessary in so many cases, and also going to the heart of ensuring that people can go into this heating season --particularly in the Northeast--with a little more confidence. I am concerned we are going to see tremendous oil heating price hikes which will force people into very difficult choices between heating or eating. This is a way, I believe, in which we can begin to start addressing this point. 
   Again, I recognize that the chairman has very diligently and sincerely tried to increase these funds. I hope we can do better. I don't think we are penalizing the agencies, and I don't anticipate a park being shut down by the loss of .5 percent of their travel expenses and other overhead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I oppose this amendment because it contains language that raises serious First Amendment questions regarding the separation of church and state. 
   This amendment basically allows taxpayer dollars to flow to religious institutions, such as churches, mosques, and synagogues, to administer social services and public health benefits on behalf of our federal government. I believe this provision is Constitutionally suspect and requires more thoughtful Congressional scrutiny in the form of hearings and public discussion. Instead, this dubious language has been slipped into a several-hundred page amendment that few, if any, of my Senate colleagues have probably read. 
   Unlike the charitable choice provision in the 1996 welfare reform act, which applies to a very limited number of social service programs, this language would expand the scope of ``charitable choice'' to every current and future public health and social service program that receives federal funds. This new charitable choice language also would go further by allowing religious institutions receiving taxpayer dollars to discriminate in their hiring and firing decisions on the basis of their particular religious beliefs and teachings, abrogating the intent of our nation's civil rights laws. 
   Thus, under this particular provision, persons hired with federal taxpayer money, notwithstanding their personal religious beliefs, could be fired because they did not abide by particular religious standards, such as regular church attendance, tithing, or perhaps abstinence from coffee, tea, alcohol, and tobacco. This new language could allow a federally funded employee to be fired because she remarried without seeking an annulment of her first marriage. This seemingly innocuous ``charitable choice'' language amounts to federally funded employment discrimination, and allows religious organizations supported by taxpayer money to exclude people of different tenets, teachings and faiths from government-funded employment. 
   I would also like to address a point made by Senator SANTORUM last evening regarding Vice President GORE's support of ``charitable choice.'' Senator SANTORUM failed to mention that in a speech given in May 1999 by the Vice President, he stated that any charitable choice ``extension must be accompanied by clear and strict safeguards.'' He also said that ``government must never promote a particular religious view, or try to force anyone to receive faith.'' This amendment fails on both accounts. 
   There is a tradition in Rhode Island of religious tolerance and respect for the boundaries between religion and government. Indeed, Roger Williams, who was banished from Massachusetts for his religious beliefs, founded Providence in 1636. The colony served as a refuge where all could come to worship as their conscience dictated without interference from the state. With that background, I believe that we should be very careful to maintain the distinction between government and religion. They both have important roles to play, especially in helping some of our country's neediest citizens. However, if a church or mosque is going to accept taxpayer dollars to perform contractual government services, they should not be able to deny employment to qualified American citizens. Our nation's laws should not allow discrimination on the basis of religion. 
   I suspect that the drafters of the amendment understand the Constitutional infirmities of their language. They seek some protection by inserting a reference to the ``Establishment Clause in the First Amendment'' as a check on permissible programs. However, such an approach 
   blithely ignores the succeeding words of the same sentence. ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . . .'' (emphasis added). 
   Their use of the Establishment Clause is a transparent ploy to dress up dubious legislation in the trappings of the Constitution without giving effect to the full meaning of the Constitution. The proposed legislation raises serious questions about the ``free exercise'' of religion. By imposing religious tests on federally funded employment and by condoning religious based treatment regimes paid for by public funds which may conflict with the religious beliefs of beneficiaries, this legislation severely impinges on the ``free exercise'' of conscience. 
   With specific regard to the religious beliefs of beneficiaries, the drafters try to salvage this amendment from the Constitutional morass that they have created. They purport to require governmental entities to provide access to an ``alternative'' service provider if an individual objects to the religious character of the service provider. Having abandoned the Constitution, the amendment now abandons reality. In a country with insufficient resources to fully treat and serve all who qualify for public services, where are these alternative service providers? We are all familiar with the long waiting lists for substance abuse treatment, just to name one area of concern. We are equally familiar with situations in many areas, both rural and urban, where there is only one realistic provider. How available can any alternative provider be in practice? Moreover, why should a qualified beneficiary have to advance a ``religious'' reason as a condition to receiving public benefits? 
   Unfortunately, the enactment of the ``charitable choice'' language in this amendment will result in expensive and time-consuming Constitutional litigation, bogging down the passage of its laudatory community renewal provisions. 
   Mr. President, I would urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment and to vote against federally supported religious discrimination. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the full text of my remarks be included at the appropriate place in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, earlier today, the Senator from Nevada offered an amendment on childhood lead exposure on behalf of myself and Senator TORRICELLI. I wish to speak briefly at this time on the merits of that amendment. 
   Today, we are here to offer an amendment that would address a problem that is particularly pernicious, dealing with the health of children and exposure to lead paint. There are countless numbers of children across this country who have been physically and emotionally harmed, and cognitive development impaired, because they were unwittingly, in most cases, exposed to lead-based paint. Generally, this type of paint is common in older homes throughout the country. It is a particular problem in the Northeast, in Rhode Island and in Massachusetts; but it is not limited to that part of the country. 
   Anyplace where you have older houses, and the homes are more than 20 or 30 years old--you have this potential problem of exposure to lead-based paint by children, which may impact their physical and intellectual development. 
   The Medicaid authorities have recognized this problem and have promulgated regulations for screening and follow-up treatment services for Medicaid-eligible young children. However, in all too many cases, this screening requirement is ignored by Medicaid contractors. Without screening and without identification of lead poisoned children, there is no good opportunity for followup treatment. 
   Now, the amendment, proposed by Senator TORRICELLI and myself, would codify these regulations and would require screening conducted by Medicaid contractors, which are the health plans that provide services for the Medicaid population. With screening, it would also require the followup treatment and services necessary to ensure that the child can successfully deal with exposure and poisoning from lead. 
   What we are seeing across the country, from statistics being generated by the General Accounting Office, is that many States are negligent in ensuring that the contractors are screening children and providing followup treatment. Our amendment would try to respond to this known deficiency by requiring an annual report to Congress from HCFA and, in turn, requiring legislatively that the States not only insist upon the screening, but also report back to HCFA on the results of their screening efforts. 
   Let me emphasize that this is not a new mandate on the States. This is in response to the fact that the existing Federal regulations are being ignored. The next logical step--the one we propose--is to codify these regulations, literally give them the force of law so the States and Medicaid contractors will begin to do what they should have been doing since 1992. 
   What we have seen, in terms of the population of Medicaid children, is that they represent about 60 percent of all children who have been exposed to and poisoned by lead paint. Yet, only 20 percent of Medicaid-eligible children have been effectively screened for lead exposure. So you have estimates of 60 percent of the youth Medicaid population with some exposure to lead paint. Only 20 percent have been screened. That huge gap suggests very strongly that there are many, many children--too many--who are not being given the treatment they need to correct a very difficult problem. 
   Now, the other aspect we want to emphasize is the fact that timely screening of children exposed to lead is critical to their ultimate recovery. It is critical, not only to saving families the stress, turmoil and tragedy of a lead-poisoned child, but also saving society enormous economic costs associated with lead exposure and lead poisoning. One of the things that is quite clear to all who have looked into this problem is that, first, lead poisoning is a completely preventable illness. If children  are not exposed to lead--and typically exposure comes from paint in their 
   homes--then they will not contract this disease. What is also critical is the fact that lead poisoning can cause extremely detrimental health effects in developing children. It is associated with brain damage, behavioral and learning problems, slow growth, and other maladies, all of which are avoidable if we screen, test, and literally get the lead out. 
   Statistics show that young children who are exposed to lead poisoning frequently require special education services. In fact, it has been suggested that children who have exposure to lead paint are 40 percent more likely to require special education. 
   Special education is one of the issues we often talk about during the course of the debate on educational priorities and funding. It costs an average of $10,000 above the cost of regular education for the typical special education child. Many of these children are in special education programs because they were poisoned by lead in their homes. If we can effectively deal with this health care problem, we will also deal with an educational problem and a funding problem, a problem that bedevils every local school system in this country. 
   Whenever I go back to my State, one of the top issues I hear about from my constituents is the extra cost of special education. While this proposal will at least go a small way toward addressing that problem, as well as going to the heart of the matter on protecting children from an environmental poison that can be avoided if we screen and take other remedial actions. 
   This amendment is only one part of a comprehensive strategy we need to protect children against the hazards of lead poisoning. We need screening of individual children and we need quick access to followup services and treatment; but we also need a housing policy that recognizes that we have an obligation to remove from older homes the lead paint that is the source of the contagion for these young children. If we put these together--screening, treatment, housing policies that try to get the lead out, and provide safe housing for all of our children--then I think we will be on our way not only to providing good, compassionate care for our children, but also saving society countless millions of dollars each year. 
   I particularly thank my colleagues, Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI, because over the last couple of years we have been able to put more resources into Federal lead abatement programs, treatment programs, and other programs aimed at this particularly pernicious problem. I hope we, in fact, continue on that trend. 
   Today we have an important opportunity to do what we have tried to do through regulations, but to do it through the force of law, by requiring screening and access to care for children, by requiring appropriate reports to Federal authorities and to the Congress, so we can eradicate this problem amongst our children in this country. 
   With that, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr President, I rise to join my colleagues Senators FRIST, KENNEDY, JEFFORDS and others in support of our bill the ``Children's Public Health Act of 2000''. This critical legislation seeks to improve the lives of children in this nation by enhancing access to certain health care services and providing additional resources for pediatric health research. Children are our most precious resource, and we must do all we can to enable our children to reach their full potential both physically and intellectually. The Children's Public Health Act takes an important step toward achieving this goal by creating an environment where children are able to grow and develop unhindered by the burden of disease. 
   Overall, tremendous improvements have been made in the quality of children's health over the past century. For instance, deadly and debilitating diseases that were once prevalent during childhood have been largely eradicated thanks to advancements in vaccines. 
   Yet, even with these remarkable advancements, new problems have arisen. In particular, over the past decade, we have seen dramatic increases in the number of preventable childhood injuries, as well as a rise in diagnoses of asthma, autism, and diseases often attributed to obesity, such as diabetes, high cholesterol and hypertension in young children. This legislation sets forth creative approaches for dealing with these increasingly prevalent pediatric conditions. 
   Generally, the programs and initiatives authorized under the Children's Public Health Act can be broken down into four specific categories: (1) injury prevention; (2) maternal and infant health; (3) pediatric health promotion and; (4) pediatric research. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a couple of the provisions included under the pediatric health promotion section of the bill dealing with lead poisoning prevention and childhood obesity. 
   First, the Children's Public Health Act contains a section based on legislation I introduced last year along with Senator TORRICELLI, entitled the Child Lead SAFE Act. This comprehensive bill seeks to address an entirely preventable problem that continues to plague far too many children in this nation--lead poisoning. While tremendous strides have been made over the last 20 years in reducing lead exposure among the population, it is estimated that nearly one million preschoolers nationwide still have excessive levels of lead in their blood--making lead poisoning the leading childhood environmental disease. Childhood lead poisoning has a profound health and educational impact on children. 
   Children with high blood lead levels can suffer from brain damage, behavior and learning problems, slowed growth, and hearing problems, among other maladies. Moreover, children with a history of lead poisoning frequently require special education to compensate for intellectual 
   deficits and behavioral problems that are caused by their exposure to lead. Research shows that children with elevated blood-lead levels are seven times more likely to drop out of high school and six times more likely to have reading disabilities. By failing to eradicate lead poisoning, we are preventing our children from achieving their fullest potential and are also imposing significant health and special education costs on taxpayers. 
   Timely childhood lead screening and appropriate follow-up care for children most at-risk of lead exposure is critical to mitigating the long-term health and developmental effects of lead. Regrettably, our current system is not adequately protecting our children from this hazard. Despite longstanding federal requirements for lead screening for children enrolled in Medicaid and other federally funded health care program, a January 1999 GAO report found that two-thirds of these children have never been screened and, consequently, remain untreated, eventhough low-income children are at particular risk for lead exposure. As a result, there may be thousands of children with lead poisoning who continue to go undiagnosed. 
   The Children's Public Health Act will begin to address this problem by enhancing the existing lead grant program through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and authorizing new grant programs to conduct outreach and education for families at risk of lead poisoning, implement community-based interventions to mitigate lead hazards, establish uniform guidelines for reporting and tracking of blood lead screening from laboratories and local health departments and ensure continuous quality measurement and improvement plans for communities dedicated to lead poisoning prevention. The legislation also provides resources for health care provider education and training on current lead screening practices and would require the Health Resources and Services Administration to submit an annual report to Congress on the percentage of children in the health centers programs who are screened for lead poisoning. 
   A second element of this bill that I believe will have a major impact on improving and preserving the health of children in this nation is a provision related to childhood obesity. Over the past fifteen years, childhood obesity rates have doubled. It is estimated that almost five million, or 11% of youth 6-19 years of age are seriously overweight. Contributing to this trend has been the rise in fast food consumption, coupled with an increasingly sedentary lifestyle where time engaged in physical activity has been replaced by hours playing computer games and watching television. Another reason for the lack of physical activity in children is the reduction of in daily participation in high school physical education classes, which has declined from 42 percent in 1991 to 27 percent in 1997. Children simply do not have the time or opportunity to engage in healthy physical activities. 
   As a result, younger and younger Americans are showing the signs of obesity-related diseases, such as heart disease and diabetes. Research shows that 60 percent of overweight 5-10 year old children already have at least one risk factor for heart disease, such as hypertension. If our society continues on this trend, obesity will soon rival smoking as a leading cause of preventable death. Clearly, action needs to be taken to curb this potentially deadly epidemic. 
   The Children's Public Health Act acknowledges and attempts to reverse this trend through a multi-pronged approach. First, the bill would provide states and local communities with the resources they need to develop and implement creative approaches to promoting good nutrition habits and enhancing the levels of physical activity among children. The bill authorizes a new competitive grant program through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, whereby states would develop comprehensive, inter-agency, school- and community-based approaches to better physical and nutritional health in children and adolescents. These programs would be evaluated and information about effective intervention models and obesity prevention strategies would be broadly disseminated. 
   The legislation also calls for greater applied research in order to improve our understanding of the many factors that contribute to obesity. Research will also focus on the study of the prevalence and costs of childhood obesity and its effects into adulthood. Another  aspect of the bill is the development of a nationwide public education campaign informing families of the health risks associated with chronic obesity that provides information on incorporating good eating and regular physical activity into daily living. Lastly, the bill provides resources for health care provider education and training on evaluation and treatment practices for obese children or children at risk of becoming obese. 
   Overall, this bill has many substantial provisions that will go a long way in improving the health and well-being of our children. This legislation not only expands the base of pediatric medical research currently ongoing, it also includes important enhancements in maternal and prenatal health as well as several other initiatives that will greatly enhance access to services to children with chronic and debilitating diseases. 
   I am pleased to join my colleagues today on introducing this important legislation, and I look forward to working to pass the bill through the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and the full Senate this year. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, on September 3, 1964, President Lyndon Johnson signed the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act. The Land and Water Conservation Fund, or LWCF, was created by Congress to use revenues from Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas development--a non-renewable resource--to invest in America's renewable resources by creating parks and open spaces, protecting wilderness, wetlands and refuges, preserving habitat, and enhancing recreational opportunities. 
   The LWCF has been a remarkable conservation success story. In its 35-year history, LWCF has supported the acquisition of nearly 7 million acres of parkland and the development of more than 37,000 park and recreation projects. In my state of Rhode Island alone, LWCF has invested over $32 million in nearly 400 state and local parks projects, including $1.7 million for development of Roger Williams Park in Providence, $1.1 million for Scarborough State Beach in Narragansett, and $536,000 for rehabilitation of the famous Cliff Walk in Newport. Because State and local governments provide at least half of initial project costs and assume all operation and maintenance costs in perpetuity, each Federal dollar leverages several dollars in non-Federal contributions. 
   But despite the LWCF's success, funding for the program has fallen well below its authorized level of $900 million per year, and the stateside grant program was completely zeroed out in 1995, even as offshore oil and gas revenues increased and the need for parks and open space continued to rise dramatically. 
   Last year, President Clinton proposed an historic Lands Legacy budget initiative to fully fund the LWCF at its authorized level. Although appropriators did not fully fund the Lands Legacy budget request, Members of Congress are clearly getting the message Americans are sending to Washington about the need for major conservation legislation to promote open space and recreation. 
   On May 11, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 701, the Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 2000, by a vote of 315-102. The ``CARA'' bill, which would automatically set aside revenues from offshore oil and gas leases to fully fund the Federal and State LWCF grant programs for the first time in decades, was the product of an extraordinary bipartisan compromise between the House Resources Committee chairman, DON YOUNG, and the ranking member, GEORGE MILLER. The CARA bill would provide nearly $3 billion annually until 2015 to support conservation efforts across the country. 
   All eyes are now on the Senate, Mr. President. Across the country, Americans in cities, suburbs, and rural areas have joined State Governors, city and town planners, wildlife program managers, hunters and fishermen, and environmental organizations to call on the Senate to act on this historic legislation. 
   Several bills have been introduced in the Senate: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, if I could ask my friend to yield, we have 40 amendments filed. I hope the Senator will work on his side as we will on our side. There is some duplication. It may not be necessary to have votes on each amendment. There may be other things that develop during Monday. We may not need all of those votes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Reserving the right to object, on rollcall vote No. 169, I was recorded as voting nay and I voted yea. Therefore, I ask unanimous consent that the official record be corrected to accurately reflect my vote. This will in no way affect the outcome of the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Durbin amendment. I commend him for raising this very important issue this evening. 
   This debate has already illustrated the knowledge of the participants and also the commitment of both sides in this debate to try to reach a very important and principled decision with respect to national missile defense. The obvious fact is that this is the most expensive military program we have contemplated, perhaps, in the history of this country, and there is a great deal riding on it. 
   It is not only financial, it is also strategic in terms of our increased security in the world and in terms of the reaction of our allies, reaction of potential adversaries, all of which makes this debate critical. 
   At the heart of this debate--one of the reasons the Senator from Illinois is contributing mightily to the debate--is the issue of countermeasures. The importance of countermeasures should be obvious to all of us. My colleague from Massachusetts talked about this. In the history of conflict, for every development, there is an attempt to circumvent or to neutralize that development. So it should be no wonder, as we contemplate deploying a national missile defense, our adversaries are at this time thinking of ways they could, in fact, defeat such a national missile defense. 
   There are two general ways to do that. One is to build more launchers with more warheads so you essentially overwhelm whatever missile defense we have in place. Or--this is probably the most likely response--you develop countermeasures on your missiles to confuse our defense and allow your missiles to penetrate despite our national missile defense. 
   At the heart of what we should be doing in contemplating the deployment and funding of this system is ensuring that in the testing we pay particular attention to the issue of countermeasures, because that is the most likely response of an adversary to defeat the system we are proposing. That is common sense in many respects. Anyone with a cursory knowledge of history would immediately arrive at that conclusion. 
   This is not a merely theoretical discussion. Sophisticated countermeasures already exist. They are the penetrating aids which are on most of the Russian missiles. There is the possibility, of course, that these penetrating aids will either be copied by rogue nations or, in fact, be traded or exchanged to these rogue nations. 
   I found very interesting a report by the intelligence community which was unclassified and issued last September. In their words:  
   We assess that countries developing ballistic missiles would also develop various responses to U.S. theater and national defenses. Russia and China each have developed numerous countermeasures and probably are willing to sell the requisite technologies. 
   Many countries, such as North Korea, Iran and Iraq, probably would rely initially on readily available technology--including separating RVs, spin-stabilized RVs, RV reorientation, radar absorbing material, booster fragmentation, low-power jammers, chaff, and simple balloon decoys--to develop penetration aids and countermeasures. 
   These countries could develop countermeasures based on these technologies by the time they flight test their missiles.  
   Frankly, what we are testing against today is a very small fraction of these possible countermeasures penetrating aids. We have selected a very discrete set of the most primitive countermeasures, and we have used that as our benchmark to determine whether or  not the proposed national missile defense system will work well enough to fund development and ultimate 
   deployment, when, in fact, our own intelligence community is telling us today there are numerous sophisticated penetrating aids that are readily available. 
   They are also telling us that as we build up this national missile defense, our potential adversaries, while they build their missiles, are not just waiting around. They are also developing their countermeasures. So countermeasures takes on a very important role in our deliberations. 
   Senator DURBIN has identified this critical issue and has focused the attention of the Senate on how we will respond to this particular issue. His response is not only principled but is entirely logical. 
   What he is saying is, let's ensure that in the testing process, we don't test the just rudimentary countermeasures, we test for robust countermeasures. If we can defeat those countermeasures, then we have a system that not only we can deploy, but that system will be much more stable, much more effective over time; in effect, increasing the longevity of the system. When we are going to spend upwards of $60 billion--I think that was one figure quoted; frankly, I believe whatever figure we have now, it will be much more when we finish paying the price--if we are spending that much money, we don't want to buy something that has a half-life of 1 year, 2 years, 3 years or 4 years. We want something that will justify the expense and defend the country against likely threats for many years. 
   Senator DURBIN used the analogy of golf. The other analogy that is very popular to try to bring into popular parlance what is going on here is essentially what we are trying to do is hit a bullet with another bullet, small objects flying through space at relatively large speeds. Think about how difficult that is right now. 
   We have made progress in terms of supercomputers, in terms of large-scale computer capacity. So the problem of identifying a speeding bullet and then calculating instantaneously through billions of calculations its trajectory and then sending that message to another bullet is a daunting physical problem, but we have made progress. 
   However, the countermeasures takes that daunting task and infinitely increases its complexity 
   because to our system and our kinetic kill vehicle that is hurling through space, it won't be only one target; it could be multiple targets. To differentiate those targets, identify the real targets, and strike it in a matter of seconds is an incredibly complex technological task. 
   So I believe, once again, that the Senator has identified something that is critical to our responsibilities--not the responsibility of the Secretary of Defense, not the President's responsibility, but our responsibility as the Senate of the United States to supervise, to carefully review, and, ultimately, through appropriations and authorization, to give the final say about this system. That is our responsibility, and we would be rejecting that responsibility if we didn't look hard and insist that the executive look hard at this whole issue of countermeasures. 
   The other issue that has been discussed tonight is, why should we tell the Department of Defense to do something such as this when they are already doing it? Well, the simple answer is: We do it all the time. 
   Here are a few examples recently: Last December, the F-22, a very sophisticated fighter aircraft, was supposed to start its low-rate initial production; but this decision was delayed because there was dissatisfaction with its progress, with whether or not it was living up to its capabilities. We mandated tests because we were unsatisfied with the deployment schedule and its ability to be brought to the forces in the field. That was done much further along the line than the place we are in developing the national missile defense. In many respects, we are doing the same thing with the Joint Strike Fighter this year. 
   So it is not unusual to tell the Department of Defense, or to look over the Secretary's shoulder and say, even though you might be doing it, we want to make sure you are doing it, we want to make sure that they are looking specifically at the countermeasures. We want to know more specifically, when he talks about the capacity of this system to grow, will it grow up to all the countermeasures listed by the Intelligence Committee? Will it go from C-1 to C-2? We are not sure whether it will reach that ultimate test of countermeasures. This is a valuable role we must play. 
   There is another aspect to this whole debate, which I think should be noted. It is a very difficult thing and, in some respects, an intellectual challenge. For years and years, decades and decades, we have relied upon deterrence policy---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I will wrap up quickly. 
   We have relied upon deterrence policy. At the heart of deterrence policy is the notion that the other side is rational, and they will calculate the damage you can do them just as you can calculate the damage that is done by them. 
   What has changed now? I would say that intellectually why we are even having this debate is we have abandoned this concept of rationality. We don't think North Korea is rational. Again, that is an assumption that we have to look at closely as we look at some of these other things. In some respects, if they are totally irrational, then maybe there is a little hope of deterring them from doing anything, even with the national missile defense. But that is the difference. That is why my colleague from Massachusetts said we used to think about intentions, and now we don't. We made an intellectual decision we weren't going to look at that because we concluded they were irrational. I suggest that as we pursue this debate, we should look seriously at whether or not that assumption is valid. 
   I thank the Senator from Illinois. I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague Senator DURBIN on an amendment to restore funding to one of our most accomplished public health initiatives, our national immunization program. 
   The purpose of the amendment is quite simple--it seeks to strengthen and enhance the operations and infrastructure grants administered by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Section 317 immunization program. 
   These monies fund a variety of essential programs and services within the immunization program for children, including outreach efforts to educate parents about the immunization schedule, training and education of providers about new vaccines and outbreak control when cases of infectious diseases arise. The CDC's operation and infrastructure grants also support vital initiatives to identify under-immunized children, provide resources necessary to implement and maintain state-based immunization registries and allow the state immunization program to forge linkages with other public health services, such as WIC and Head Start, since these places are often points of entry for low-income children who may lack all or some of the recommended vaccinations. 
   Originally, Senator DURBIN and I had intended to offer an amendment that would add a total of $75 million for the CDC Section 317 operations and infrastructure grant program. We have modified our amendment so that it now calls for a $37.5 million increase in funding for these grants this year with the understanding that Chairman SPECTER has agreed to work to provide additional $37.5 million in FY 2002 for this grant program. I would thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member for agreeing to accept this important amendment. 
   Numerous public health and provider groups including the National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO), the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO), the American Academy of Pediatrics and every Child by Two, just to name a few support our amendment. 
   Since the advent of the polio vaccine in 1955, the United States has invested in a national immunization campaign to rid the population of devastating diseases such as smallpox, polio, diphtheria and measles. 
   The CDC Section 317 program has been an integral part of our national immunization initiative. The Section 317 program can be broken down into two main categories--(1) vaccine purchase and (2) infrastructure to facilitate the delivery and monitoring of vaccines. The Section 317 program is the only source of critical federal funding to support the infrastructure necessary to administer immunizations to children in communities throughout the country. 
   A little over a week ago, the Institute of Medicine released their report on immunization finance policies and practices. This report was conducted at the request of the Senate Appropriations Committee and more specifically by our colleague Senator Dale Bumpers, a long-time champion of the immunization program. 
   This landmark report offers us many important insights into the complex federal-state-local 
   partnership that makes up our national immunization initiative. The report found that although average immunization coverage levels are at record highs, several problems continue to plague the program, while even greater challenges lie ahead. The issues threaten the great success we have achieved in essentially eradicating deadly and debilitating diseases that were prevalent in this country a relatively short time ago. Many of these same diseases continue to strike children in developing nations throughout the world. 
   According to the IOM report, one of the greatest challenges currently facing our immunization program is the persistent disparities in coverage that exist among and within states, as well as within major cities. 
   The 1998 National Immunization Survey (NIS) found a gap of between 7 and 8.6 percent between the immunization rates for non-Hispanic white children and those of Hispanic and African-American children for one of the most important series of immunizations. Disparities in immunization levels also fall along the poverty line. For the same series, National Immunization Survey found a 9 percentage point difference between the immunization rates for children living below the poverty level compared to those at or above the poverty line. 
   These disparities in coverage are often found in concentrations of un-immunized and under-immunized children who typically reside in urban areas as well as in certain rural areas. These areas are also referred to as `pockets of need'. 
   Our investments in the immunization program thus far have yielded great benefits in terms of improving the health of children, as well as producing significant health care cost savings. For example, for every dollar spent on the Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) vaccine, $10.30 in savings were captured in terms of direct medical costs and $13.50 in indirect societal costs, such as lost work time, disability and death. 
   While great progress has been made in boosting immunization coverage nationally, we are at a point where it will require additional resources in order to reach those remaining children who have not been immunized. In other words, reaching these remaining un-immunized and under-immunized children in `pockets of need' areas, will require more effort and more resources. 
   Another significant problem outlined in the IOM report is the, ``The repetitive ebb and flow cycles in the distribution of public resources for immunization programs .....'' Federal funding for the immunization program has been volatile, particularly over the past decade. 
   To give my colleagues some background, the federal government began to pay greater attention to the need to support and strengthen our immunization program after a measles outbreak struck several parts of the U.S. in 1989-1990. Following the epidemic, the CDC launched a national initiative designed to strengthen state immunization programs and provide resources for a broad array of direct services and outreach. The goal of this effort was to strengthen and enhance our capacity to monitor immunization levels and improve our ability to respond to disease outbreaks. 
   During that period, federal funding for infrastructure grants increased seven-fold from a total of $37 million in 1990 to $271 million in 1995. However, states were not immediately prepared for the dramatic funding increases and the expansion of immunization delivery systems at the state level took time. As a result, funds were ``carried over'' from one year to the next as states prepared to make the capital investments necessary to strengthen critical areas of their 
   immunization program, such as vaccine delivery, outreach into underserved areas and improvements in monitoring through the development of state-based immunization registries. 
   However, as the threat of another disease outbreak faded, carry-over fund balances grew and pressure to reduce federal discretionary spending intensified here in Congress. What happened as a result was an almost 50 percent decline in funding, and for the past two years, the CDC infrastructure grant program has been level funded at $139 million. 
   For the past few years, states have been using remaining carry-over funds to cover expenses that could not be met by their new award. The estimated FY 2001 figures indicate that most states have exhausted their carry-over funding and must rely solely on their new grant award to finance their operations. 
   This cut has seriously eroded states' ability to develop and implement program innovations and threatened their capacity to administer vaccines. These reductions over the past several years  have also forced states to scale back on other important activities such as community outreach, parental and physician education and the development and operation of registries. 
   This reduction in the operations and infrastructure grant awards has had a significant impact on my home state of Rhode Island. My state has gone from a high of approximately $3 million to a low of $500,000 in just four years. These kinds of swings in funding make it virtually impossible for a state to administer its program, let alone plan ahead for the future. 
   And these dramatic declines have not only happened in my state--they have happened in virtually every state in the country. 
   Fortunately, my state has been extremely successful thus far in expanding immunization coverage rates in the nation (89%). However, continued vigilance is necessary to maintain coverage rates in states like Rhode Island, while additional effort and resources are required to bring up immunization rates in areas like Chicago (69%) and Houston (56%). 
   Mr. President, we must remain diligent and focused on our immunization goals and invest in the tools necessary to protect our children. This additional funding will help to achieve that end by restoring immunization grant awards to a level that will enable states to carry out critical program activities. As I mentioned before, our amendment would add $37.5 million over two years to the CDC operations and infrastructure grant program. 
   The IOM report makes clear that our immunization system is at a critical juncture, and I am pleased that Chairman SPECTER and Ranking Member HARKIN have agreed to accept our amendment because we should not wait for a serious outbreak to a vaccine-preventable disease to address the shortfall in the CDC immunization program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to engage Senators SPECTER and HARKIN in a colloquy regarding funding for the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnership (LEAP) program. 
   First, I want to commend Senators SPECTER and HARKIN for numerous education funding increases in the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. There are tough budget pressures facing Senators SPECTER and HARKIN, and they have done tremendous work on this bill. In particular, I am pleased that they have increased funding for the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnership (LEAP) program to $70 million. 
   LEAP, a federal-state partnership, is vital to our efforts to help needy students attend and graduate from college. In fact, without this important federal incentive, many states would never have established or maintained their need-based financial aid programs. 
   Over the past three years, I have worked with Senator COLLINS and others in the Senate to restore, revamp, and increase funding for LEAP. This year, the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill provides $70 million for LEAP. While this funding level is less than the bipartisan request that I submitted with 32 of my colleagues, it is a significant increase over current funding and the President's request. This would be the biggest boost for the program in some time, and, as such, I decided not to offer an amendment to further increase funding for LEAP. 
   However, I am concerned that during Conference with the House, which has once again zero-funded the program, LEAP will not remain at the Senate's $70 million funding level. This concern is also shared by the higher education community, which strongly supports the Senate's $70 million for LEAP. Would the Chairman yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator. Does the Senator share my concern about maintaining the Senate's $70 million for LEAP and is the Senator's intent to fight for this level in Conference? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank my colleagues, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, first, I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their persistence in negotiating a Section 527 disclosure bill that has passed both chambers of Congress. The overwhelming vote in both the House and Senate in support of H.R. 4762, a bill mirroring a successful amendment we made to the Defense Authorization bill several weeks ago, is an important step in fixing our broken campaign finance reform system. 
   Both parties have now acknowledged that some change in our campaign finance laws is warranted, the first such legislative consensus on this issue since technical changes were made in 1979 to the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974. 
   A majority has agreed that Section 527 organizations need to both follow federal campaign law and to file tax returns. H.R. 4762, like our amendment to the Defense Authorization bill, requires Section 527s to disclose any contributors who give more than $200, and report any expenditures of more than $500. Unlike our original amendment, it requires a Section 527 organization that fails to disclose contributions and expenditures to the IRS to pay a penalty tax on the amounts it failed to disclose. The amendment we made to the Defense Authorization bill would have removed a Section 527's tax exempt status for the same violation. Although not as severe a penalty, I believe that this change in the House version of this legislation does reflect the spirit of the original Senate amendment. 
   Although disclosure is only part of the solution, the passage of H.R. 4762 ensures that the public understands what these committees are, who gives them their money, and how they spend that money to impact election outcomes. This law, once signed by the President, will close a major loophole and stop these stealth PACs from skirting campaign finance requirements, and I was pleased to vote in support of it. However, we still have much to do. 
   We cannot, and must not, rest with this vote today. Our campaign finance system still needs major overhaul if we are going to reduce the influence of almost unlimited amounts of campaign cash on our electoral system. Until a majority of our citizens believe again that our government is ``by and for'' the people, we cannot stop our battle to reform this process. We need to pass a ban on soft money, reduce skyrocketing campaign expectations, and return our electoral process to the people, where it belongs. The power in our country should rest with the vote, not with the purse. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of Senator DORGAN's proposal. It is very straightforward, simple, and it states categorically that all Americans covered by health insurance should have the protections of the Patients' Bill of Rights. Nothing could be clearer or more effective and efficient in providing protections to the American people, to which we all, by and large, agree. 
   We have seen this proposal in the Democratic legislation that was submitted to this Chamber. It is included  within the Norwood-Dingell legislation in the other body. It is consistent, it is appropriate and, frankly, it seems so common sensical. Why should an American citizen be denied protections and practices and benefits because he or she is in an ERISA plan rather than a non-ERISA plan? ERISA is a time and security income program created to protect the solvency of retirement funds and the financial aspects of these plans. It was never intended to be a health care plan or to define the coverage for health care plans in the United States. So on that point alone, it seems to be an inappropriate way to discriminate against those Americans who have access to the protections of the Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   I have been listening to the proposals by the Senator from Oklahoma and the description of the Senator from Tennessee and trying to understand their proposals. My understanding is this: They have--and Senator FRIST has announced a long list of protections and rights, and they only apply to ERISA plans--48 million Americans. The appeals process, however, would be expanded to apply to 131 million Americans. 
   Now, it appears to be inconsistent, but I think the rationale and the logic is pretty clear. If you don't have rights, it doesn't matter whether or not you have an appeals process. If you don't have the rights outlined by the Senator from Tennessee, then you could have the appeals process, but what are you appealing? You are appealing nothing. It comes back to the point that Senator DORGAN has made so well. This issue is about scope, so that not only do you have the right to appeal--all Americans--but you actually have valid rights that you can insist upon in an appeals process. That is included within the Democratic proposal, the Norwood-Dingell bill, and it is significantly absent from the Republican proposal we are hearing today. 
   Now, the justification, of course, for this approach--the Republican approach--is we can't disrupt State regulations, or the sanctity of State regulations. However, step back and look again. Under the pressure of Norwood-Dingell, the pressure of Senator DORGAN's proposal, and the pressure building up month after month of trying to bring this Patients' Bill of Rights to the floor for final passage--something solid and substantive--the appeals process has been expanded. When it comes to appeals, we are saying we don't care about State regulations anymore. That argument falls out. If we don't care about the appeals process with respect to the sanctity of State regulations, why do we care when it comes down to fundamental rights? Or why do you care about it in this, I think, inappropriate, illogical, and irrelevant distinction between ERISA plans and non-ERISA plans? The answer is, this ERISA distinction is a convenient dodge to avoid providing rights for all Americans in this health care bill. 
   Now, also, they talk about the fact that the cost of these patient protections will go up dramatically. Yet the Senator from Tennessee just announced a long list of protections that apply to ERISA plans. Why, if these are so onerous and costly, would we allow them to be applied to ERISA plans and not to other plans? The answer, I think, also should be obvious. It is that, in fact, these proposals are not only necessary but appropriate, and that the costs will not unnecessarily drive people away from insurance protection. 
   So what we have in the Republican proposal is based upon illogical premises, distinctions that should not be in place with respect to ERISA or non-ERISA, and also would create a complexity that is one of the banes of our health care system today. On this side, and also on the bipartisan measure adopted by the House of Representatives, you have a very simple, direct proposal that will cover every American--not just in the appeals process but in the basic rights they have. I think, in comparison, it is clear that we should support the amendment of the Senator from North Dakota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague Senator JEFFORDS today to introduce the Health Care Consumer Assistance Act. This important legislation seeks to address a significant problem that currently exists in the health insurance market, the lack of a reliable source of information and assistance for health care consumers. 
   In 1997, President Clinton's Health Quality Commission identified the need for consumer assistance programs that allow consumers access to accurate, easily understood information and get assistance in making informed decisions about health plans and providers. Earlier this month, the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and Consumer Reports magazine released the results of a survey they conducted on consumer satisfaction with their health plans. Their survey is part of a larger project looking at ways to improve how consumers resolve problems with their health insurance plans. The survey found that while most people who experienced a problem with their plan were often able to resolve them, the majority of those surveyed were confused about where to go for information and help if they have a problem with their health plan. Eventhough a growing number of states have taken steps to give patients new rights in dealing with their health insurance plans, most consumers are either unaware or do not know how to exercise those rights. 
   The legislation I am introducing today with Senator JEFFORDS seeks to remedy this information gap by providing grants to states that wish to establish health care consumer assistance programs. These programs are designed to help consumers understand and act on their health care choices, rights, and responsibilities. Under this bill, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will offer states funds to create or contract with an independent, nonprofit agency to provide a variety of information and support services for health care consumers, including the following: educational materials for health care consumers about strategies to resolve problems and grievances; operate a 1-800 telephone hotline to respond to consumer inquiries; coordinate and make referral to other private and public health care entities when appropriate; conduct education and outreach in the community; and collect and disseminate data about nature of inquiries, problems and grievances handled by the program. 
   The concept of a health care consumer assistance program has already received considerable support and several states have taken the initiative to create these programs. Governors and state legislatures in many states including, Florida, Georgia, Massachusetts, Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada, Rhode Island, Texas, Vermont, Virginia and Wisconsin have introduced or enacted health care ombudsman legislation. While some states have successfully launched their programs, other state initiatives have faltered due to a lack of sufficient funding. 
   While important strides are being made to enhance health care consumer information and resources, clearly more needs to be done to expand access to these simple and cost-effective services to all Americans. 
   Mr. President, I believe that Americans deserve access to the information and assistance they need to be empowered and informed health care consumers. As the health insurance system becomes more confusing and complex, it is critically important that as consumers navigate this system, they have a place where they can go for information, counseling and assistance. As health plan options become more complicated and the web of policies and principles governing those plans becomes more enmeshed, people need a reliable, accessible source of information, and state health care consumer assistance programs have proven their ability to meet this challenge. I look forward to working with my colleague, Senator JEFFORDS, in advancing this important and timely legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank Senator KENNEDY for yielding and for sponsoring this amendment. He has grasped the most critical aspect of educational reform in the United States today--improving the quality of teachers. He has simply brought forward the bipartisan, unanimous consent we reached in the Higher Education Act amendments of 1998 where, in the vote of 96-0, we passed the teacher quality enhancement grants program. We authorized a magnificent program on a unanimous vote, but we have failed to fully fund it. If we have the plan, but not the money, we are not going to succeed. 
   Senator KENNEDY is simply saying, we have a good plan, let's put the resources behind it. 
   We understand we need to have high-quality teachers to meet the challenges of the 21st century classroom. These challenges are different from 50, 30, 20, even 10 years ago. It is no longer sufficient for a student to go to a teacher college and learn about pedagogy and then go into the classroom. They need to have clinical exposure. They must have real-life experiences in the classroom before they become new teachers. 
   They also have to understand their subject matter. Technique is one aspect, but it can't substitute for detailed knowledge of the subject--be it science, history, or mathematics. They also have to understand how to integrate technology, which is at the key of most of the breakthroughs in education in the United States today. 
   They have to be able to deal with a diverse population of students, some with limited English proficiency, some who are coming from cultures much different from the culture in which the teacher grew up. 
   All of this necessitates significant reform in our educational practice. That is why, in the Higher Education Act, I worked closely with my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, and others to develop partnerships between teacher colleges and elementary and secondary schools--real partnerships where aspiring teachers can get the clinical experience, and the other things necessary to be prepared for today's classrooms. It is similar to the model of physician training. We would never send a physician into an operating room simply with a few lectures on theory. It is practice, practice, practice, before they are allowed to operate. It should be the same for teachers. 
   We can't do that unless we fully fund the teacher quality grants. They cover the spectrum. First, they provide the opportunity for these partnerships to develop. Second, they support statewide reforms. Third, they allow for recruitment of teachers, particularly to reduce shortages of qualified teachers in high-need school districts. 
   We will need 2 million new teachers over the next 10 years because of the changing population of teachers, retiring teachers who are leaving, and the increase of our student population entering first grade and kindergarten. Look at any urban school district in this country, and you will see they are suffering severe teacher shortages. Recruitment is necessary. 
   We also need to stimulate partnerships that are so essential between colleges of education and elementary and secondary schools. 
   Last year, $77 million was available for new grants. Mr. President, 366 applications were received--a huge response--from States and local school districts. This is a popular program. The Department of Education could only fund 77: 25 local partnerships, 24 State grants, and 28 teacher recruitment grants. Rhode Island, I am proud to say, got a State grant and is using it very well. 
   This year, however, only $21 million was available for new grants. There were 141 applicants, but the Department of Education estimates they will only be able to fund 11 grants--1 in 12. The need is there and the plan is there; the resources are lacking. That is why we are here today. 
   We want to fully fund this program up to the authorized total of $300 million, creating an additional 100 partnerships, State and recruitment grants. This will help meet the demand and do the one thing that is so critical to education reform in this country, which is not questioned by anyone, evidenced by a 96-0 vote in this Chamber approving the program: We have to enhance the quality of teachers in this country. We can't do it just with admonitions. We can't do it just with sentiments. We have to do it with dollars. 
   We have a program that works. We have a popular program. We just don't have the resources. Senator KENNEDY's amendment, which I am proud to cosponsor, will give us the resources to do the job. 
   I thank the Senator. I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk, No. 3638, and I ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this amendment would increase funding for GEAR UP by $100 million. GEAR UP is a critical component of our efforts to provide disadvantaged young people a chance to go on to college. GEAR UP reaches out very early in their educational careers, giving them the mentoring, the support, and the information necessary to succeed, not only in high school but to go beyond, to enter and complete college. 
   I offer this amendment along with Senator KENNEDY and Senator MURRAY. We are offering it because we believe--as I am sure everyone in the Chamber believes--that the opportunity to go on to postsecondary education is central to our country and central to our aspirations in the Senate. 
   This opportunity is particularly difficult to achieve if one is a low-income student in the United States. The GEAR UP program is specifically designed to reach out early in the career of a child, the sixth or seventh grade, and give them not only the skills but the confidence and the expectation that they can succeed and can go on to college. Both these skills and information, together with the confidence that they can succeed, are essential to their progress and to our progress as a Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, one of our primary educational goals should be to ensure that all students with the skill, talent, and ambition to go to college can go to college. In order to accomplish that goal, we have to fund, of course, Pell grants; we have to fund the LEAP program. We have to do many of the things Senators SPECTER and HARKIN have insisted upon in this bill. But we also have to do something which helps students early on through the GEAR UP program, and give these young students the skills, the confidence, and the expectation that they can and should go on to college. That is why I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   At this time, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I recognize Senator SPECTER's dilemma with the budget resolution, as it fairly constrains his ability and the ability of his colleagues on the committee to fund programs that are worthwhile. In fact, I note that GEAR UP is a program that evolved from a model that was very popular in Pennsylvania, the I Have a Dream Program, and others. The Senator is familiar with it and is supportive of it. My point is that this is one of those critical programs, and we have to reach beyond this budget resolution and budget constraints and try to find the resources. 
   It is particularly appropriate at this moment, as we are looking ahead at significant surpluses that are growing--dividends from tough fiscal decisions we have made over several years--that we begin to develop a strategy to invest more and more into education. GEAR UP is a worthwhile program--eminently worthwhile. One could argue it is the first step in so much of what is included in this legislation, such as Pell grants, LEAP, and all of those programs that actually give these youngsters the money to go to college. But if they don't have the skill, motivation, and the confidence to try, those grants won't be useful to them. 
   So I once again urge that we move forward with this amendment. I understand that the Senator from Pennsylvania will make a budget point of order. At that time, I will make a request to waive that applicable section. If the Senator is ready to make the motion, I am happy to yield back all my time and then be recognized. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-7-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-8-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, pursuant to section 904 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, I move to waive the applicable sections of that act for the consideration of the pending amendment, and I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-9-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I'm here to speak about the Kennedy Workforce Investment amendment restoring cuts to the Department of Labor's training funds. 
   This amendment is just plain common sense. The single best thing we can do for our society, and for every working family, is to make sure that every American who wants a decent paying job has the skills necessary to obtain a decent paying job. By helping youths and adults get the job training they need, we help turn them into tax-paying citizens who can purchase goods and services, buy homes and afford health care, and contribute to our growing economy.  
   This amendment, in a multitude of ways, tries to address the most basic challenge facing our country: How do we help American workers develop the skills they need to excel in an increasingly complex and constantly evolving economy? 
   First, our amendment helps by fully funding the Dislocated Worker Assistance Program. It restores $181 million in funding to a program that has made a substantial difference in the lives of Rhode Island workers. We, like many formerly industrial states, have suffered great worker dislocation as industries have left, often to go somewhere overseas where labor was cheaper. Restoring this funding to the President's request would allow 100,000 more workers, dislocated through no fault of their own, access to training, job search and re-employment services. 
   Our amendment also grants the Administration's request for $44 million to improve access to One-Stop services for million of Americans and make the job search process less overwhelming and more efficient. The Director of the Rhode Island Department of Labor and Training informed me that the current cuts to this program will ``seriously impact'' the ability of our state to provide the services and information now required by the Workforce Investment Act for use by job seekers and employers. 
   In addition to fully funding adult worker skills programs, our amendment would add $254 million to restore cuts in the Summer Jobs Program resulting from implementation of the Workforce Investment Act. Many states, like my own, were unprepared for this dramatic change in the federal funding stream. Thousands of kids in Rhode Island, especially 14- and 15- year-olds, are now going without summer jobs. Many of these kids are from small towns, others are from inner city Providence--both are limited by their age and the lack of job opportunities in their respective communities. 
   Giving young people job experience benefits the entire country. The development of good work habits and a respect for the virtues of labor alone are strong payoffs. Everyone in this Congress should be supporting a restoration of these cuts. 
   Finally, our amendment would restore $29 million to the Job Corps program, one of the most effective programs in the country for kids between the ages of 16 and 24. A recent Mathematica Policy Research Inc. study shows that 16- to 17-year-old youths who go through the Job Corps program are 80 percent more likely to earn a high school diploma or GED than a control group excluded from the program. This group also earned salaries that were 20 percent higher and had arrest rates that were 14 percent lower. This program works, and we should be fully funding it. 
   Strengthening our workforce strengthens our families, and ultimately makes our entire country stronger. Adopting this skills training amendment is good for both American business and American workers, and every member of this Chamber should be in support of it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-10-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this amendment would add an additional $100 million to the appropriated funds for the GEAR UP program. GEAR UP is the centerpiece of our efforts to reach out to disadvantaged students and give them both the skills and the confidence to go on to college. It is particularly clear in low-income neighborhoods that young people and families do not have either the access to college or the kind of skills they need to make it all the way through high school into college. 
   This program does that. It complements the Pell grant. It complements other programs because it actually gives young people, starting the sixth or seventh grade, the tutoring, the mentoring, the confidence, the ability to go through high school, and go on to college. 
   By voting for this amendment, we will say to scores of disadvantaged children: You can succeed; you can go to college; you can take your place in American society as a college graduate. I urge all of my colleagues to support this incredibly important program, to make opportunities real in the lives of all of our citizens. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in very strong support of Senator BINGAMAN's amendment to provide additional resources to support State and local accountability efforts. Last year's budget included these funds, and this investment must be continued. 
   I have worked long and hard on school accountability. But, frankly, the leader in this regard in this body is Senator JEFF BINGAMAN from New Mexico. He is a champion for ensuring that Federal resources go to schools. But we also provide incentives and opportunities for accountability and for improvement, along with Federal dollars. His efforts have been in the forefront of this great effort to improve the quality of our education and the quality of our schools. 
   The Federal Government directs over $8 billion a year to provide critical support for disadvantaged students under title I. But even with this great amount of money--$8 billion--there are still insufficient resources to provide for the accountability provisions that are part of title I. 
   We essentially face a situation, given the number of students who qualify for title I and the limited resources for the program, where most of the funds go simply to providing services and not the type of careful overview and thoughtful review that is necessary for program improvement.  
   With the resources that are proposed by Senator BINGAMAN, we will be able to identify more closely and more accurately schools in need of improvement. We will be able to provide assistance for activities like professional development and technical assistance to schools so that they can in effect improve their performance and implement State corrective actions for schools that we should and must improve. 
   Today, as I mentioned before, most of the dollars are simply going out to meet this overwhelming demand for services without the ability to review, evaluate, and correct programs. With this ability we would not only get the best results for our dollars, but we could materially improve the educational attainment of children throughout this country, and particularly disadvantaged children under title I. 
   In 1994, much of the impetus for accountability began with the prior reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   The 1994 amendments allowed States to move forward and develop their own content performance standards and to develop their own assessment measures to provide the details for our direction to improve the accountability of title I money. 
   But as I mentioned--this is a constant theme--because of limited resources, there is the difficult choice between providing the service and doing the accountability. 
   On a day-to-day basis, States try to keep up. But over time, they are falling behind in terms of improved performance and improved quality of education for students. What results is States can't as effectively address weaknesses that they see. They can't invoke a progressively intensive range of interventions to improve schools. They can't do the continuous assessments that are necessary to keep these programs on target, focused, and provide quality education for all of our children. 
   The amendment, which the Senator from New Mexico proposes, would provide resources for schools and school districts to enable them to address the challenges of helping low-performance students and low-performance schools. In fact, we know those students in our lowest performance schools will immediately and directly benefit from the Bingaman amendment because studies clearly show that students in low-performance schools are at least a year or two behind students in the high-performing schools within the title I universe. 
   As we provide these resources, we need to focus them on the 
   more problematic schools so we can help disadvantaged children to attain better educational achievement throughout our country. 
   We are still in the midst of trying to reauthorize the ESEA. Within the context of that act, Senator BINGAMAN has other accountability language which I am proud to support with him. 
   But we have a critical opportunity--and we are at a critical juncture today--to provide resources and directions so that the accountability issue at least will not have to wait upon final reauthorization of the ESEA if that final reauthorization is indeed forthcoming in this legislative session. 
   I once again commend Senator BINGAMAN for his leadership. 
   I conclude by simply saying that we have a situation where there is a great deal of knowledge and a great deal of intuition at the local level about how they can improve this program. 
   These resources in the hands of local school authorities would make a real difference in the lives of disadvantaged children, and would ultimately go to the heart of, I believe, what our greatest challenge in this country is, which is to use education to provide all of us, but most particularly the most disadvantaged Americans, the opportunity to learn, to succeed and to contribute to this country and to our economy. 
   I urge passage of the Bingaman amendment, and I yield to the Senator from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that a fellow in my office, Paul Tibbits, be granted floor privileges during the debate on the pending bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to express my disappointment with the outcome of the vote that occurred last evening here in the Senate. I am referring to the vote on Senator ROBB's amendment concerning a Medicare benefit for prescription drugs. 
   Last night, we had an opportunity to give millions of elderly and disabled Americans something they desperately require, a universal prescription drug benefit. Yet, this measure was defeated, mostly along party lines, by a vote of 44-53. Our nation's seniors deserve better. 
   The need for a prescription drug benefit under Medicare has grown each and every year. Advances in medical science have revolutionized the practice of medicine. And the proliferation of pharmaceuticals has radically altered the way acute illness and chronic disease are treated and managed. 
   These remarkable advances, however, have not come without a cost. Since 1980, prescription drug expenditures have grown at double digit rates and prescription drugs constitute the largest out-of-pocket cost for seniors. For millions of seniors, many of whom are living on a fixed income and do not  have a drug benefit as part of their health insurance coverage, access to these new medicines is beyond reach. 
   Even more alarming, it is estimated that 38 percent of seniors pay $1,000 or more for prescription drugs annually, while 3 in 5 Medicare beneficiaries lack a dependable source of drug coverage. This lack of reliable drug coverage for today's seniors is reminiscent of the lack of hospital coverage for the elderly prior to the creation of Medicare. Back in 1963, an estimated 56 percent of seniors lacked hospital insurance coverage. Today, after all our investments in health care and prevention, 53 percent of seniors still lack a prescription drug benefit. 
   The need for a Medicare prescription drug benefit is a top concern for the elderly and disabled in my home state of Rhode Island. Many seniors continue to be squeezed by declines in retiree health insurance coverage, increasing Medigap premiums and the capitation of annual prescription drug benefits at $500 or $1000 under Medicare managed care plans. Mr. President, seniors in my state are frustrated and burdened both financially and emotionally by the lack of a reliable prescription drug benefit. 
   While the need for a prescription drug benefit is clear and the desire on the part of some members of Congress is there, action on Medicare prescription drug legislation has been slow. The Senate Finance Committee has held a series of hearings on the subject of Medicare prescription drugs, however, the committee to date has been unable to produce a bill. 
   In May, I joined Senator DASCHLE and several of my Democratic colleagues, in introducing S. 2541, the Medicare Expansion of Needed Drugs Act. This legislation seeks to provide millions of elderly and disabled Americans with an adequate, reliable and affordable source of prescription drug coverage. 
   The MEND Act embodies the principles that I believe are necessary for an adequate prescription drug benefit--it is voluntary, accessible to all seniors, affordable, provides a reliable benefit and is consistent with broader Medicare reform. 
   Last evening, the Senate had a real and possibly its only opportunity to enact a prescription drug benefit when Senator ROBB offered an amendment during the consideration of the fiscal year 2001 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education appropriations bill that would have provided a universal Medicare prescription drug benefit to our nation's seniors. While the proposal differs slightly from the MEND Act, it embraced the principles that I view as necessary for a good benefit. Regrettably, this crucial amendment was defeated. 
   I sincerely hope that the stated desire of many of my colleagues to create an adequate and affordable Medicare prescription drug benefit will become a reality this year. During this time of strong economic prosperity, we should all feel compelled to seize this opportunity to strengthen and enhance Medicare for the new millennium. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I am impressed with Senator DODD's logic and wisdom in drafting legislation which does not direct the purchase but, rather, makes the purchase subject to the decisions of the DOD, which will ultimately be responsible for the training and military support for the Colombian Army. 
   I am here today principally because I was fortunate enough last week to be in Colombia and in the field with a narcotics battalion, to get the opinions of those Colombian soldiers who actually have to fight these missions, and to get the observations of the American special forces troops who are training the Colombians. I think their observations will be very useful and informative to my colleagues. I believe I have an obligation to speak to those observations. 
   These are both excellent systems. But the question of what system do you purchase and deploy is a function of the mission that the platform, the helicopter, the system must execute. 
   Senator DODD did a very good job of providing the context for the proposed operation. Let me add a bit of detail, if I may. 
   The use of Plan Colombia from a military standpoint is to create a counternarcotics battalion which will push into the South from the provinces of Putumayo and Caqueta. This is part of the Amazon jungle. It is all jungle. The last road ends at Tres Esquinas. All military supplies for the core operation of that base must be done by air. The context of the operation that is proposed is that they operate from Tres Esquinas, which is about 150 nautical miles from the operating base. That is their zone of operation. 
   The mission these counternarcotics troops will perform is to airlift out of Tres Esquinas, to move into landing zones that are close to either final laboratories or other significant assets of the narcoterrorists, and to deliver, at a minimum, two platoons. Those 2 platoons have about 70 personnel. The ultimate lift will be a full company of about 360 personnel. 
   It has been pointed out before that the range of the Huey II, Super Huey, is about 75 nautical miles carrying 10 troops, and the Huey II can range only half the target area, half of the 115 nautical miles, without expensive refueling operations. 
   So the first tactical decision a commander would have to make if in fact he were deploying Super Hueys would be to operate in the full range of the area of operations. You would have to go ahead and establish, at least temporarily, four refueling points so the Hueys could come in and refuel. This is in some respects a tactical hindrance to the operation. 
   First of all, you have to defend these positions in the field--in a jungle area that is literally infested with guerrillas. 
   Second, the element of surprise would be at least somewhat vitiated if in fact they were able to see you come in, refuel, and then lift off, and go again to a target area. 
   In contrast to the range of the Huey II and the necessary-for-refueling bases to cover the whole area, the Blackhawk has a range of about 730 nautical miles and can carry 18 troops. This disparity between range and capacity of troop lift also goes to the issue of cost because obviously, in order to conduct these tactical operations, you will need more of the Super Hueys than you would Blackhawk helicopters. That doesn't 
   completely  equate the force, but it in a significant way narrows operational forces. 
   The military personnel on the ground, the Colombian National Army, and the special forces advisers suggest that to put two platoons into an LZ someplace in this area of operations would require seven Hueys as compared to four Blackhawks. Again, tactically, four Blackhawk aircraft flying at higher speeds and moving in without the necessity to refuel gives them more operational capabilities, and it gives them more capability to amass their forces, strike quickly, and pull back quickly. 
   There is something else that has to be mentioned. They are flying against military forces that potentially have fairly sophisticated defense systems, which again puts a premium on speed and surprise--being able to get in and out--and also the survivability of the helicopters. That is again an issue that requires capital military judgments about what system is most capable to operate and survive in this type of environment. 
   There is another aspect to this. The lift capacity of the Blackhawk, according to the people to whom I spoke, gives it an advantage when they operate closely in the highlands of the Andes where you need lift simply because of the altitude. It also gives the Blackhawks some respect. 
   Also, this was suggested to me while I was in the field. If you are going to do fast-rope rappelling operations, you have to come in, hover over the objective, and get your troops out. Many places in this area of operation will not be landing zones. You will have to require rappelling operations to get your troops on the ground and get them out again. 
   Another aspect that was alluded to by Senator DODD is the aspect of the ability of the Colombian forces to absorb a number of helicopters. Right now, the State Department has managed to procure for the use of the Colombians, at least temporarily, 18 Huey helicopters from Canada. These are ``1-November'' models. Already, that has increased the aviation capacity potentially of the Colombians by substantial amounts. 
   They are out finding pilots; they are finding logistical support. 
   If we give them 30 Blackhawks, that will stress their logistical ability to train pilots, to provide mechanics, to provide crews, to provide the kind of logistic base they need. If we double that by providing twice as many Hueys, we will put additional pressure on the logistical base of the Colombian military forces to do the job. That is something, practically, that we have to consider with respect to this issue. 
   What Senator DODD has suggested is very thoughtful and appropriate, to make this military decision subject to military judgment and not our particular judgment. 
   I was compelled to speak today because I had the chance, gratuitously, to be at Tres Esquinas and Larandia on Sunday to talk to the Colombian soldiers who will fly the missions and jump into this difficult area. I talked to our special forces troops and our military forces who are advising. They provided information, and it is important my colleagues understand this information. It is appropriate we should be considering this amendment, not to direct that the aircraft be one variety or the other but to ensure that the Department of Defense make a very careful review based upon some of the issues we have all talked about, including range, lift capability, the nature of the operations, the nature of the Colombian military forces, and their capacity to integrate these platforms quickly into their operations. 
   I hope this debate accomplishes those missions. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator LAUTENBERG be added as a cosponsor to Senator EDWARDS' and Senator TORRICELLI's amendment No. 3589. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the underlying legislation that would provide support for the country of Colombia to fight the drug problem which not only involves Colombia but involves the United States very decisively and directly. 
   I commend Senators MCCONNELL and colleagues who drafted this legislative vehicle to assist Colombia. 
   Part of my discussion tonight is based upon a trip last weekend that I took with Senator DURBIN to Colombia. We had the opportunity to travel to Cartegena to meet with President Pastrana and his key national security advisers. We also traveled to Bogota to meet with the Defense Minister and the chairman of their joint chiefs of staff. 
   But I think much more importantly, we traveled out to where the military forces are being deployed to counteract this drug problem, to the town of Larandia. It is not really a town, it is a base camp. It is a forward post for the Colombians to conduct these counterdrug operations. 
   One of the first impressions you get when you go to Colombia and leaf through the materials provided by the Embassy is that this country has a long history of violence--or, as the Colombians say, La Violencia. 
   In fact, according to the Embassy, there is one kidnapping every 5 hours in Colombia. And 75 percent of the world's reported kidnappings occur in Colombia. The Embassy points out that Bogota is the murder capital of the world. In a city of 7 million people, there are 16 murders a day and 6,000 murders a year. 
   This is a country that has been wracked by political and criminal violence for many decades. The political violence began with some presence back in 1940s when elements of what later became the Liberal Party and the Conservative Party literally battled for control of the country. This lasted until 1957, when both parties agreed to form a national front. 
   Then there was a period from 1958 until 1974 in which both parties literally transferred power each 4 years from one president to another, and there was a semblance of stability in the country. But certainly by the 1960s, there was renewed agitation by guerrilla forces, principally Marxist and Leninist forces--the whole spectrum--the two principals being Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, or FARC, and Ejercito de Liberacion Nacional, or ELN. 
   These forces, spurred on by the success of Castro in Cuba, made significant inroads in terms of establishing independent zones along with agitators who also fought for agrarian rights in the countryside. 
   In the 1960s, the Colombian military conducted a serious counterinsurgence operation. They were able to eliminate these zones. But in that time, they won for themselves the infamous designation of being significant abusers of human rights. That reputation--both the perception and, unfortunately, reality--continues in the Colombian military today. 
   But by the end of the 1960s and the 1970s, they had effectively pushed the insurgency away from the populated centers of Colombia--which are the coastline and the Andean plains--into the jungles of the Amazon, in an area which is desolate, unpopulated, and, frankly, beyond the effective control of authorities in Bogota and elsewhere in Colombia. 
   But in the 1970s, the drug trade began to assert itself into the life of Colombians, first with the cultivation of marijuana. It took the Colombian police authority a while to recognize the threat to them as well as to others from this cultivation. 
   Recognizing the problem, they began to organize themselves to conduct counterdrug operations in the police force--not the military. 
   Then, as we all know, marijuana was rapidly displaced in the world drug market by cocaine. The cocaine trade became a curse for Colombia. 
   Within Colombia infrastructure, the leadership of several major organizations--the Cali cartel, the Medellin cartel and others--set up their headquarters in Colombia and began to run worldwide operations. Most of the production was done outside in the surrounding Andean country. This map is a recent example of cultivation areas--the cultivation areas in Peru, Bolivia, which have been very successful with eradication, and here is Colombia. Cultivation was typically outside Colombia. Within Colombia, they located clandestine laboratories to convert the coca leaf into cocaine base and later cocaine. From the 1970s and through the 1980s, there was a fabulously powerful and wealthy criminal combination that was destabilizing Colombia. 
   The United States did not stand aside when this situation developed. The United States supported the Colombian police and insisted that the Colombian police reform themselves and throw out those who had been corrupted by the narcotraffickers. With cooperation, and with the leadership of the Colombian police and with the bravery and the sacrifice of scores of Colombian police officers, the Cali cartel was disrupted and the Medellin cartel was disrupted. The leaders of the cartels literally died in police shootouts. 
   We have a situation, where through support by the United States and the police forces of Colombia, we defeated a drug combination that was threatening the United States by importing vast amounts of cocaine into the United States. 
   Now there is a new situation and a new crisis. The new crisis is the result of two things: the collision of cocaine cultivation, coca cultivation, and these remnants of a political insurgency that has been ongoing in Colombia for decades. The FARC and other revolutionary units are in the hinterland. What has arrived recently has been the cultivation of coca. As a result, the FARC--and its other guerrilla forces--has been enlisted in the support and protection of these coca fields. They are deriving great resources in doing that. They are deriving resources to support their political activities. 
   Coca production now has been linked with armed military forces. The police are no longer capable with their equipment and their technology to deal with this. This has become a military problem. As a result, we are in a military problem that requires military support of the United States, just as it required police support in the 1980s and the early 1990s. 
   Part of the reason the cultivation has come to Colombia is the fact that we have been successful. As an indication of our success, Colombian production has surged dramatically. It has surged where in other places the production has been cut back. Both in Bolivia and in Peru, we have made significant progress--again, working with local authorities, working with their counternarcotics organizations--and we have been able to suppress the cultivation of coca. What has been suppressed in Peru and Bolivia has now blossomed in the southern provinces of Colombia. Again, this combination of coca production and guerrillas has produced a military crisis as well as a drug crisis.  
   I have heard colleagues come to the floor and talk about the situation, saying: This is Colombia's problem, not our problem. 
   Mr. President, the streets of America are also the battlegrounds for this problem because the final impact of cocaine is felt--as too many Americans are subject to the ravages of cocaine addiction. 
   This chart demonstrates what we are talking about. As I 
   mentioned before, Peru has shown a 27-percent reduction in cultivation; Bolivia, a 53-percent reduction in cultivation; Colombia, production has increased and will increase unabated unless we do something. 
   The bottom line is, from all these sources, but increasingly from Colombia, 512 metric tons a year of cocaine is directed to the United States. About 380 metric tons arrive, get through our border checkpoints, get around our intense efforts to stop it, and hit the streets of America. 
   In a real sense, Colombia's problem is our problem and our problem is Colombia's problem. It is the huge demand of the United States which is causing some of this instability in Colombia. So we have a rather strong national security interest in assisting Colombian forces to do the job we insist they do, which is to stop cocaine production and distribution emanating from Colombia. It is important to note we have a situation where we want to ensure that the Colombian forces help us by curtailing supply, so it does not arrive on the streets of America. 
   The proposal that is included in the legislation before the Senate, Plan Colombia, has been carefully worked out. Its focus is counternarcotics--not the political insurgencies that have washed back and forth across Colombia for decades. It represents the recognition by our Government and the Government of Colombia, first, that there is a significant problem in Colombia that directly affects the tranquility of peace and the security of the United States. Second, I believe it also recognizes the competence of the Colombian authorities to fight the good fight. 
   Again, as I indicated, it was Colombian police officials working with the United States and other international narcotics control officers that went a long way to destroy the Cali cartel and the Medellin cartel. Now this is a new phase. It is no longer simply criminal syndicates operating in the cities of Colombia. It is a situation where guerrilla forces are protecting and profiting from the cultivation of coca in the hinterlands of Colombia. 
   Mr. President, as I mentioned, Plan Colombia is a reaction to the recognition of a crisis. It is also proposed as a result of the confidence that has been demonstrated in the Government of Colombia, their sincere dedication to try to eradicate their own problem with drug cultivation, and also it represents, I think, and based upon my trip, a sense of a reasonable prospect for success because of their commitment and also because of the nature of the problem we face. 
   Plan Colombia has many different aspects. First, it focuses on not only military operations. It focuses on the peace process, which is ongoing in Colombia today. President Pastrana, when he was elected, was elected on a plank that called for sincere and serious negotiations with the guerrilla forces. He has instituted such negotiations. In fact, what has happened in Colombia is that he had dedicated an area, approximately outlined by this blue, in the hinterlands of Colombia, which is a DMZ area, controlled by FARC, the principle guerrilla group. This peace process is important. 
   This plan is also an attempt to provide alternate development efforts for the peasants and the cultivators in a region where coca was being cultivated. This plan calls not only for military operations but also calls for heightened sensitivity to peace, a commitment and a contribution to economic development. The United States share is just a fraction of what the Colombian Government has committed to this effort for economic development and for ways to have alternatives to the coca cultivation. 
   Also, and quite rightly, the plan calls for reform of the justice system and protection of human rights, because, frankly, one of the most feeble institutions within Colombia, and this accounts for many of their problems, is the justice system and the penal system that is not responsive to efficient, fair, and appropriate justice. Here, too, Plan Colombia, will call for a reform and renewal of those institutions, which are so important. 
   Then part of it, of course, is a military component. Without security in these areas, in these areas we have talked about--without security in these areas, there will be no way in which we can effectively conduct--``we,'' meaning the Government of Colombia and its international partners--can conduct the kind of economic development and alternative development that is necessary for long-term stability. 
   Here is another map that focuses clearly on Colombia alone. Here are the regions where the production is significant, Putumayo and Caqueta, these provinces. Here in the pink is the zone controlled by FARC. You can see it really is in between major production areas. 
   In order to get into these areas, in order to provide the kind of economic development that is necessary, there has to be, first, security, and, because of the nature of the armed combatants in the area, that calls for military assistance. 
   This is a big part but not the only part of Plan Colombia. Within the context of Plan Colombia, there are basically two significant components militarily: first, the training of counternarcotics troops, and, second, the provision of helicopters for their mobility, because without helicopters you really cannot be effective in this region. 
   The training has already been finished for the 1st Battalion and they are in Tres Esquinas. The second is up here in Larandia. They are awaiting our approval so American special forces troops can conduct the training. Without helicopters, however, none of these trained troops can effectively get to where the cultivation is taking place, where the clandestine laboratories are located, where they must go in order to upset and defeat the drug lords in this part of Colombia. So it is very critical we move today with dispatch with this legislation, and move forward to allow the military plan to go forward as well as to provide the basis for later alternative development. 
   Many legitimate concerns have been raised with respect to the program that is being presented within this legislation. First of significance, one we should all be very concerned about, is human rights. There is no way we want to be involved in an operation that is not going to emphasize the appropriate treatment of human rights, not only because that is the right thing to do but because in the long run that is the most effective way to win away any type of support for drug eradication and to build respect for the legitimate institutions of government in Colombia. 
   We are aided in this effort by provisions that already have been included under the direction of Senator LEAHY. Essentially, under the Leahy provisions, units that receive assistance and training from the United States cannot receive that training unless an individual who faces any type of credible human rights violation has either been removed or appropriate justice has been rendered to that individual. In a practical sense, this means all the troops who are going to be trained are vetted for human rights abuses. And all of them must pass. 
   Also, the Minister of Defense of Colombia must, every 6 months, report on the process of bringing to justice those individuals who have been accused of human rights violations. As of today, both of the counternarcotics battalions have been vetted--the 1st Battalion and the 2nd Battalion. Also, other units of the Colombian Army have been vetted. In order to receive our training, these units must receive this vetting. And it has already 
   had a positive effect. But rest assured, this is a constant struggle and we must insist and ensure that this human rights perspective is one that is not lost in our efforts to aid Colombia. 
   There is another point that I think is important to make. There have been many suggestions that the greatest human rights violation that the Colombian Army engages in is passive and active cooperation with armed militias, self-defense forces, or paramilitaries as they are called--the perception that they are really in cahoots with vigilante groups that are  out to destroy not only leftist rebels, but anyone who seeks to express themselves or ask for their rights in Colombia. That has been the history. But at least on the surface, things are changing. 
   One example of that is this particular section of last week's major paper in Bogata, Colombia. This is an advertisement that was taken out by the military. Essentially it says that 785 families will not celebrate Father's Day. Then it lists the victims of the violence in Colombia. But I think it is significant to note that they clearly point out the violence that is the result of guerrilla, leftist activity, and the violence that is the result of what they determine are ``autodefensas,'' militias, self-defense forces. This is a result, I believe, also based on my conversations, that the military authorities in Colombia are getting the message. They are getting the message that there is no way we will tolerate alliances with paramilitary forces who are trying to subvert our emphasis on human rights. I think this is discouraging, in the sense that it is a horrible litany of lost souls, but it is also important to note that at least the military is trying to address the issue in an evenhanded way, the violence that both sides are doing to the fabric of peace in Colombia. 
   There is a situation here on human rights which is serious and in which the military is, for the first time I believe, taking this responsibility very seriously. There has been vetting of these military units. We are objecting to any type of training that would go to units containing individuals who have serious human rights violations. 
   There is also a high level of support for the effort to improve the human rights position in the Colombian Army, both the Defense Minister, General Tapias, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and at the tactical level in Tres Esquinas, General Montoya. These individuals recognize that the continued cooperation and collaboration with the United States rests upon sincere and effective efforts to provide effective human rights training and effective human rights behavior in the Colombian military. 
   There is another aspect of concern that has been raised by some of my colleagues with respect to operations in Colombia, and that is the perception that the elites of Colombia are not actively involved in this struggle. It is most significantly reflected in constitutional provisions that prevent graduates of high school from being sent into combat, where nongraduates can be drafted and sent into combat. 
   This is an issue which is both symbolic and substantive, too. 
   Our discussions with the Minister of Defense suggest they are also recognizing this issue; that they are consciously moving to professionalize their force by replacing draftees with professional soldiers; and they are also proposing, according to the Defense Minister, legislation within this session of the Colombian Congress that will attempt to prevent this discrimination in favor of high school graduates and against non-high school graduates. It does represent, once again, a perception on the part of the Colombian authorities that they must not only protect human rights, but they must be fully committed to this struggle in order to receive the support of the United States. 
   There is another criticism that has been lodged by some of my colleagues, and that is that this is just another entre into an unwinnable military quagmire, like Vietnam. There are many lessons to be drawn from Vietnam. One lesson is that we cannot fight and should not fight someone else's battle if they do not have the will to do it themselves. 
   In this particular situation, Colombia is unlike Vietnam because the Colombian forces are asking for our help in terms of training, in terms of equipment, but not our troops. They recognize they must do that themselves. Also, their history suggests they have in the past done precisely that. They wanted our training for their police, equipment for their police, intelligence reports for their police, but they went after the cartels themselves. It was their responsibility. They carried it out successfully. 
   The other difference between Vietnam and the situation in Colombia is that our focus is on drugs. Our focus is on supporting Colombian military authorities to provide the security so that police authorities can destroy labs and destroy coca fields. That is a lot different from trying to win the hearts and minds, to win the political allegiance of a population, as we were by default forced to attempt in Vietnam. 
   Winning the political allegiance of the people of Colombia is strictly and only the function and responsibility of the Colombian Government. That is why President Pastrana's peace plan represents a sincere effort to do just that. It is their plan, their peace plan. Our effort should rightfully be restricted, and is restricted, to the war on drugs. 
   Our role is also limited operationally because, as I mentioned before, we are providing equipment, we are providing trainers, and we are providing intelligence, but intelligence related only to counternarcotics operations. Again, this is very similar to what we did with the Colombian national police in their successful effort to destroy the cartel. 
   One cannot totally dismiss history. I believe we have to be very careful and cautious so that these steps--appropriate steps and limited steps--do not lead to something more. Part of this debate then should be to not only reassure the American public that what we are doing is appropriate, but also that we will continue to be vigilant so that any commitment we make to Colombia will be limited and will strictly be a function of their capacity and their willingness to fight their own fight and not unwittingly involve Americans directly in that fight. 
   There are some other differences between Colombia and those who suggest the Vietnam analogy. First of all, this is an insurgency without any significant foreign support. With the demise of Castro as a potent revolutionary force in Latin America, with the collapse of the Soviet Union, this is not a situation where there are indigenous forces supported by outside powers. In fact, the support the guerrillas on the left and the paramilitary on the right are deriving is from their participation in the drug trade. There is no great popular support abroad for the leftist or for the rightist forces who are guerrillas or paramilitaries. 
   Public opinion polls suggest they have very limited appeal. 
   Colombia is a country with strong democratic traditions. It has regular elections. Power transfers peacefully. It is a market economy, until recently a market economy that did very well. For all these reasons, I think again we should be watchful, but the analogy to Vietnam at this juncture fails. 
   Let's also look ahead. There are consequences to our operations in Colombia. First of all, if there is success in Colombia, we should not be surprised that the level of violence will increase because these guerrillas and paramilitary forces depend upon support from somewhere. If they cannot sell drugs--we hope they will not be able to sell drugs--they will return to their old ways--kidnapping, extortion, et cetera. We have to recognize, ironically, if the drug war is successful, we must see escalating levels of violence. 
   The Colombians recognize that, but they are still willing to pay the price, fight the fight, and destroy narcotics. We have to recognize the armed opponents, FARC and others, are well off. They will resist probably, and they will resist with sophisticated weapons and technology they have acquired through their contributions to their drug tactics. 
   There is another consequence that might develop if this plan is approved and funds provided to Colombia. That is, if these guerrilla and paramilitary units are deprived of their resources from the drug trade to continue their operations, there will, I think, be more pressure for the peace settlement, more willingness on the part of these combatants to come to the table and try to work out an arrangement so that decisions in Colombia are decided peacefully and not through armed conflict, as it has been so long and so often in that country. 
   There is another aspect, of course, that would be very helpful to the peace settlements there, and that would be whether the United States could suppress its voracious appetite for cocaine. That would go a long way to assist Colombia in being a more peaceful and tranquil society. 
   So all of our efforts, not only to disrupt production in Colombia and elsewhere, but also to suppress demand here in the United States would, I think, be helpful. 
   But this particular plan, if it works--and there is a reasonable probability that it will work--could materially and, I hope, effectively lead to sincere and renewed peace discussions within Colombia. 
   There is also a consequence for failure if we fail to approve the resources or if the plan fails for other reasons. At least one result would be that President Pastrana, and his government, in the middle of the process, would likely also fail. That could lead to several consequences. 
   First, he could be replaced by someone who is less amenable to the peace process. Given the tides of violence in Colombia, there could be a resurgence or the surfacing of an authoritarian figure who would be much less sensitive to the peace process. 
   Another possibility would be a recurrence of what happened in a previous administration under President Samper, where, effectively, the President of Colombia was subverted by narcotraffickers, by drug money, and the country was close to falling under the sway of narcotics dealers rather than the elected representatives of the people of Colombia. So there are consequences with which we must wrestle. 
   All in all, our most promising option is to support this bill and support Plan Colombia. To do nothing renders a severe psychological blow to the people of Colombia and to the administration of President Pastrana, who is committed not only to fighting the drug war, but also waging a peace process in negotiations with the insurgents. 
   I think we ultimately have to conclude that our best course of action is to provide the kind of support that is outlined in this legislation, support that goes to the military aspects that have been created by the collision of the cocaine cultivation in the hinterlands, where armed bands roam and derive profit from coca production, together with a balanced approach that emphasizes economic development, particularly alternative development for the campesinos, the peasants, that strengthens the governance of Colombia, with particular emphasis on the judicial system and the penal system. 
   This comprehensive approach, representing about $1.6 billion in American resources, about $4 billion of Colombian resources, and hopefully contributions from other countries around the world, is, I believe, at this point the best hope of significantly undercutting drug production in Colombia, reducing the flow of cocaine into the United States, making our streets safer, and giving Colombia a chance to move to a peaceful, stable, civil society, which has alluded them for many years. 
   With that, Mr. President, I conclude my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Jon Lauder, a fellow on my staff, be accorded floor privileges during the consideration of the foreign operations appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise this afternoon to speak for this legislation and commend Senator KENNEDY for his sponsorship, along with my colleagues, of this legislation. Senator KENNEDY has long been an advocate for a society in which individuals reach out not with hate but with fellowship. I am pleased to see other supporters, like Senator SMITH, who are also in the vanguard of this great effort. 
   This afternoon we are here because of the murders of James Byrd and Matthew Shepard and others--because these acts of violence tear at the very fabric of our society. 
   Unfortunately, over the past 2 years, we have seen far too many cases of these types of crimes of violence, motivated strictly by prejudice and hatred of people, not because of their character but because of some perception of their failings in the eyes of others. 
   In my own State of Rhode Island, in May 1998 a group of seven to ten men stomped and battered a Cranston bartender and an acquaintance as they were coming out of a Providence night club, while laughing and screaming anti-gay epithets. The waiter suffered fractured bones in his jaw, head and collarbone, cracked ribs, and a puncture wound to his chest caused by a broken bottle. The acquaintance suffered a fractured eye socket and bruises. 
   According to Providence, Rhode Island city officials, the number of hate crimes reported in Providence has grown in recent years. In 1998, 25 such crimes were reported, and, last year, 32 were reported. 
   In February 1999, in an incident which took place in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, two men were walking home with a female friend from a church function and were assaulted by a third man. While yelling obscenities and anti-homosexual slurs, the third man hit one of the men over the head with a full wine bottle, and then jumped on top of him and punched him repeatedly in the face and head. He then threw him up against a brick wall and continued to hit him while yelling anti-gay epithets. 
   In California, three men pled guilty to racial terrorism for burning a swastika outside a Latino couple's residence. 
   In Florida, a Puerto Rican man was allegedly beaten by three white men who yelled racial slurs. 
   In Ohio, a 23-year-old Hispanic male was gunned down by three assailants. Police reported it as a racially motivated incident. The list goes on and on. 
   This amendment would simply extend the current definition of Federal hate crimes to include crimes committed on the basis of someone's gender, sexual orientation, or disability. It would allow the Federal Government to prosecute an alleged perpetrator who commits a violent crime against someone just because that person is gay, blind, or female. 
   This amendment basically brings our civil rights statutes in line with the most recent definition of hate crimes promulgated by this Congress. 
   This amendment also eliminates the restrictions that have prevented Federal involvement in many cases in which individuals were killed or injured because of bias or prejudice. 
   It also supports State and local efforts to prosecute hate crimes by providing Federal aid to local law enforcement officials. In particular, it authorizes the Justice Department to issue grants of up to $100,000 to State, local, and Indian law enforcement agencies that have incurred extraordinary expenses associated with investigating and prosecuting hate crimes. 
   This amendment does not federalize all violent hate crimes. It provides for Federal involvement only in the most serious incidents of bodily injury or death, and only after consultation with State and local officials, a policy that is explicitly reflected in a memorandum of understanding entered into by the Department of Justice with the National Association of District Attorneys last July. 
   Finally, the Department of Justice has reviewed this amendment and believes it does meet the constitutional standards recently articulated in Supreme Court cases. For crimes based on gender, sexual orientation, disability, religion, and national origin, the amendment has been carefully drafted to apply only to violent conduct in cases that have an ``explicit connection with or effect on interstate commerce.'' 
   This amendment has attracted broad bipartisan support from 42 Senators, 191 Members of the House of Representatives, 22 State attorneys general, and more than 175 law enforcement, civil rights, and religious organizations. This demonstrates the huge support (for strengthening Federal hate crimes legislation, support) which cuts across party lines and which reaffirms a fundamental belief and tenet of our country: That people should be able to be individuals, to be themselves without fear of being attacked for their individuality, for their personhood, for their very essence. 
   These hate crimes are very real offenses. They combine uncontrolled bigotry with vicious acts. These crimes not only inflict personal wounds, they wreak havoc on the emotional well-being of people throughout this country, because they attack a person's identity as well as his or her body. Although bodies heal, the scars left by  these attacks on the minds of the victims are deep and often endure for many years. 
   There is no better way for us to reaffirm our commitment to the most basic of American values: the dignity of the individual and the right of that individual to be himself or herself. We can do that by voting in favor of this amendment. I believe it is our duty. I am pleased to join this great debate and lend my support to this amendment. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the motion to instruct conferees to reject the provision in the House version of the fiscal year 2001 Transportation Appropriations bill that freezes implementation of the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards. 
   As my colleagues have stated, the House bill would, for the sixth year in a row, block the Department of Transportation from studying ways to improve CAFE standards for vehicles in the United States. 
   Mr. President, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's latest report to Congress states that cars sold in the United States in 1999 averaged 28.3 miles per gallon, down from 28.7 miles per gallon in 1998. Light trucks, which now make up about half of new passenger vehicles sold, averaged 20.7 miles per gallon, down from 20.9 in 1998. 
   What a shame that in an era of great technological innovation, all of the fuel economy gains from technological improvements over the last twelve years have been erased by the proliferation of larger, heavier, gas-guzzling vehicles. 
   As Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater said of the CAFE freeze in his June 8 letter to Chairman SHELBY, ``Because this prohibition has been in place in recent years, the Department has been unable to fully analyze this important issue. The average fuel economy of passenger cars and light trucks has decreased almost 7 percent since 1987. In fact, the average miles-per-gallon for 1999 was the lowest since 1980. CAFE is a significant policy issue that should be addressed analytically and not preemptively settled through the appropriations process.'' 
   With fuel prices high and rising, it is especially critical that we improve CAFE standards. Lax fuel economy standards have allowed SUVs and other light trucks on the road today to be 30 percent less efficient than cars on average. This fuel economy gap caused Americans to spend $21.4 billion more for gasoline last year than if these trucks were as efficient as cars. SUV and light truck drivers in my state of Rhode Island paid an extra $55 million at the pump last year due to this gap in fuel efficiency standards. 
   Meanwhile, as overall fuel efficiency goes down, our nation continues to import over 55 percent of its crude oil, putting us at the mercy of the OPEC cartel. We owe it to the drivers in the Northeast who are paying over $1.70 for a gallon of gas, or those in the Midwest paying over $2.00 per gallon, to take a serious look at cutting our consumption of foreign oil by improving CAFE standards. 
   Nevertheless, the CAFE freeze rider has been inserted into the House DOT spending bill every year for the past 5 years, and each time that happens, Congress denies the American people the benefits of fuel-saving technologies that already exist, technologies that the auto industry could implement with no reduction in safety, power, or performance. 
   Shouldn't we at least give the Department of Transportation the chance to study this issue? Isn't it time to lift the gag order that has been placed on our ability to consider the costs and benefits of higher CAFE standards? I believe the answer is clearly yes. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important motion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, it has been nearly 14 months since the Columbine tragedy, and over a year since the Senate passed common sense gun safety legislation as part of the Juvenile Justice bill, and still the Republican majority in Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until Congress acts, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. 
   Following are the names of a few Americans who were killed by gunfire one year ago, on June 13, 1999: 
   Robert Ayala, 21, Chicago, IL. 
   Timothy Croft, 39, Detroit, MI. 
   Warner Freeman, 21, Philadelphia, PA. 
   James Harley, 40, Baltimore, MD. 
   Rico Perry, 27, Charlotte, NC. 
   Wesley Rodenas, 19, San Bernardino, CA. 
   Thoyce Sanders, 45, Dallas, TX. 
   Charles Stewart, 32, Dallas, TX. 
   Mario Taylor, 23, Chicago, IL. 
   Renardo Wilson, 38, Dallas, TX. 
   Unidentified male, 49, Portland, OR. 
   Mark Pierce, 36, Providence, RI. 
   Mr. Pierce was killed in a late-night drive-by shooting after a confrontation between one of his friends and two young men, one 18 and one 21, at a marina on the Providence River waterfront. After an initial scuffle, the two young men departed and returned within an hour in a car. One of them opened fire with a handgun, killing Pierce. It's another example of a quarrel that, in another time in America, might have resulted in a bloody nose and a bruised ego, but instead took the life of Mark Pierce. 
   And, Mr. President, the gun violence continues every day across America. Three weeks ago, a 15-year-old girl in Providence, who was a key witness for the prosecution in an upcoming murder trial, was shot with a handgun at point blank range in her front yard on a Sunday evening. She died the next day. She was to testify in the trial of a 19-year-old charged with shooting to death a 17-year-old last August. 
   Just this past Friday, in Providence, Rhode Island, two college students were carjacked at gunpoint, robbed, taken to a nearby golf course, and shot execution style with a .40 caliber semiautomatic handgun. The handgun was stolen from the car of a freelance photographer while he shopped at a local convenience store in February. This case makes a strong argument against concealed carry laws and other liberal gun laws that encourage citizens to bring their handguns out of their homes and into the streets of our cities. It also underscores the need for aggressive research into smart gun technology to ensure that a weapon can only be fired by its legitimate owner. 
   Finally, although in this instance the police were able to trace the gun relatively quickly because it was stolen in Providence and reported by the owner, in many cases crime guns cannot be traced because law enforcement is completely dependent upon the record keeping of gun manufacturers and gun dealers, and post-retail private sales are usually unrecorded. If we registered handguns and licensed handgun owners, the police could put out an immediate alert when a weapon is reported stolen, and they could trace a weapon more quickly upon its recovery after a horrible crime like this one. In addition, the assailants would face yet another felony charge for illegal possession of a weapon not registered to them. 
   Mr. President, twelve young Americans lose their lives to gun violence every day. That's a new Columbine tragedy every 24 hours. It is time for Congress to do its part to reduce gun violence by passing sensible gun safety legislation to keep firearms out of the hands of children and convicted felons. We should do so without further delay. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, first, I commend Senators LIEBERMAN, MCCAIN, FEINGOLD, DASCHLE and LEVIN for all of their hard work on the issue of Section 527 organizations. This latest mutation in fundraising is just another example of the failure of our existing campaign finance laws. 
   Hopefully, the passage of our amendment yesterday, which mandates disclosure by Section 527 organizations, will close yet another legal loophole being exploited by clever campaign fundraisers. This amendment should make unregulated and unlimited contributions to these so-called Section 527 committees much less attractive. Although donors will be able to continue to make as many tax-deductible contributions as they want, they will no longer be able to do so in absolute secrecy. 
   These Section 527 organizations, named after a section of the tax code, skirt existing campaign finance laws by carefully avoiding the endorsement of any particular candidate. This convoluted reasoning proceeds as follows: if a Section 527 committee does not endorse a particular candidate, then it is not engaged in political activity; if it is not engaged in political activity, then there is no requirement for it to disclose who has contributed money to the committee; since it is not engaged in political activity, it can run unlimited issue ads without obeying existing campaign finance laws regarding disclosure. 
   We all know from past experience that it is just a matter of time before enormous amounts of campaign cash are funneled through more and more of these secret organizations. The amendment which passed yesterday, which I was pleased to cosponsor, will force Section 527 organizations to emerge from the shadows. They will be required to disclose their existence to the IRS, file publicly available tax returns, make public reports specifying annual expenditures over $500, and identify those making contributions of $200 or more a year to the organization. 
   Although disclosure is only part of the solution, the passage of this amendment ensures that the public understands who these committees are, who gives them their money, and how they spend that money. I was pleased to give it my support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am delighted to welcome Father Philip Smith, the president of Providence College, our guest Chaplain. 
   Providence College is an extraordinary institution in my home State of Rhode Island. It is a place where many of my neighbors and friends have been educated. More than that, it has been a source of strength, purpose, and inspiration for the whole community. Father Smith is the 11th president of Providence College and has been a paramount leader both for his institution and for the State of Rhode Island. 
   Providence College is a Dominican college, a college committed to not only developing the minds but the character of its students. Its leader is a theologian, a scholar, and a leader in his own right. His leadership is not simply intellectual; he is a leader of integrity and of commitment. 
   Rhode Island is proud of Providence College, and particularly proud of the president of Providence College, Rev. Philip Smith. It was an honor to have him in the Chamber today to lead us in prayer. I thank him and I commend him. I wish him well. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleagues in supporting this important amendment. For months we have been bogged down in a conference without real progress, and without hope of concluding the conference and bringing this bill to the floor for a final vote in the last days of this Congress. 
   I think we have to move forward. I think we have to move forward, particularly when it comes to access to health care for children in this country. I know there has been some discussion that progress has been made in terms of allowing access to a pediatrician. But there are other important aspects of health care for children included in the context of the Norwood-Dingell bill that have not been agreed to yet by the conference committee. 
   For example, ensuring that an appeals process is sensitive to the particular needs of children, the developmental needs of children that do not exist for adults; and also ensuring that there are quality assurance provisions for outcomes that are tied to the particular concerns of children. 
   If we do not do these things, then we are not only missing an opportunity, we are also disregarding our obligation to aid the children of this country. 
   We have all heard stories today about lawyers and stories about HMOs. Let me tell you a story about one child. It is a story I heard down in Atlanta with Senator MAX CLELAND. Lamona Adams, the mother of James Adams, was concerned about her child. He had a fever. He was ill. She did what she was told to do by her HMO; that is, to call up and get advice over the phone about what she should do. She desperately pleaded for help for her child. 
   She was told to go 42 miles to a hospital because the HMO had a contract with the hospital to receive their patients. While driving 42 miles to a hospital on the other side of Atlanta, an area she didn't know anything about, the child became so ill that the father just saw a sign that said ``hospital,'' went there, and they treated the child. They saved the child's life. However, they could not save the child's hands or his feet. They had to be amputated. That is what HMOs have done in too many cases in this country. 
   We have the power to stop the practices. We have the power to do it today. We should do it today, on behalf of not just James Adams but so many children throughout this country. 
   The fact that we have delayed action on this issue, I think, is inexcusable. Now we have to act. In a way, this whole episode is like a popular film a few years ago called ``Ground Hog Day,'' 
   where every day the character woke up, and it was the same day over and over again. It is not only the same day this year but, as I look at some of the charts on the Senate floor, it seems to be the same day 6 years ago. The same arguments were trotted out about health care reform 6 years ago, as were the same dire predictions about more and more Americans losing their coverage if we pass this legislation. 
   We didn't pass health care reform legislation years ago. Guess what. More and more Americans have lost their insurance coverage. We can do something now--limited, purposeful, appropriate--make sure that HMOs treat people as patients, not as objects of economic profit on their balance sheet. We can do it. We should do it. 
   Today should not be Groundhog Day. It should be D-Day. We should seize the initiative and pass this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I seek to be recognized under the time of Senator MCCAIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, I rise in support of this amendment to authorize two rounds of base closings in the years 2003 and 2005. I commend particularly Senator MCCAIN and Senator LEVIN, the prime sponsors of this legislation. 
   We all realize that base closing is a very sensitive issue because it affects dramatically all of the communities that have military installations. My home State, as some States, has not been immune to base closings. We had a significant presence of the Navy in Narragansett Bay. That presence has been diminished over the last several years. But we still have a strong and vibrant naval presence in the form of the Naval War College, and the Naval Underseas Warfare Laboratory. All of these contribute significantly not only to our national defense but to our economy in Rhode Island. 
   We approach this understanding that it is a very sensitive issue. But it is an issue that we must address. It is an issue that requires determination at this point so we can, indeed, free up the resources that are necessary for the modernization of our services. 
   The reality is quite compelling that we have excess capacity in our military establishment in terms of infrastructure. We have reduced the force structure by 36 percent since 1989. Yet we only managed to reduce the infrastructure--the buildings and the facilities--by 21 percent. This mismatch is obvious. This mismatch causes us to continue to spend in maintenance and operational expenses hundreds of millions of dollars a year minimally for facilities that we don't need. As a result, I think we have to recognize that we should authorize another round of base closings. The Department of Defense estimates they are maintaining 23 percent of excess infrastructure which is sapping resources that they could use for a host of critical needs--modernization, training, and quality of life for servicemen and servicewomen throughout our military. 
   Indeed, we hear so often that one of the persistent complaints is that Government should be as business; that Government should be run as efficiently as business. No business would suggest that it reduce its personnel dramatically and not make comparable reductions in the infrastructure and the facilities that have been in place for more than 50 years, in many cases. 
   We still have the residue of the World War II buildup. There were so many posts put up because we had to at that point train millions of soldiers, sailors, airmen, and coastguardsmen to staff an Army that was many, many times larger than it is today and a Navy that was comparably larger. Yet those facilities are still on our rolls because we had been unable to effectively initiate base-closing rounds after our first few rounds.  
   We know that the base-closing process yields savings. It has been estimated by the Department of Defense that past closures will produce net savings of about $14 billion by the end of the fiscal year 2001, and they estimate annual savings 
   thereafter will be about $5.7 billion. This is the result of decisions we already made, base-closing rounds that have already taken place, and the bases that have already been closed. That is a lot of money, particularly as we all are concerned about additional resources for defense. 
   Another way to look at that is to consider how much more difficult it would be to buy new platforms, to provide pay increases, and to enhance the quality of life through improved houses and through improved health care if we were still maintaining and spending billions of dollars on these facilities that have been closed. 
   The Department of Defense estimates that two additional rounds of base closings would generate annual savings of about $23 billion after they are implemented. Again, those are significant resources that can be used for programs that we consider to be critical to the defense of the Nation and the well-being of our men and women in uniform. 
   Both the Congressional Budget Office and the GAO agree that the Department of Defense continues to maintain excess capacity and that base closings will result in substantial savings. These are objective analyses of the current situation with respect to bases in our country. 
   The argument has been made that, well, we go out and we close these bases, and all of the savings are just eaten up by environmental remediation. I remind everyone that the requirement to remediate the environment is not a function of closing the bases. It is an ongoing responsibility of the Department of Defense. It is mandated regardless of whether a base remains open or closed. It is part of our lore. 
   The Defense Department, as every other Federal entity and private entity, has responsibilities to restore degraded environment. 
   What happens in a base closing is, as part of the process not only to close the base but also to make the base useful for civilian pursuits and community economic development, this environmental cleanup is accelerated. One could argue that accelerated environmental cleanup simply discharges a duty that already exists and also, importantly, makes these facilities much more amenable to economic development and private benefit for the local communities, which is a plus, not a minus. 
   The issue before the Senate should be addressed, as we so often address it, in the context of advice we have received from individuals charged with the administration of our military policy. The Secretary of Defense, the service secretaries, and many others have commented upon the desirability of the additional base closing rounds. In his testimony before the Armed Services Committee on February 8 of this year, General Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs stated: We continue to have excess infrastructure, and any funds applied toward maintaining unneeded facilities diminish our capacity to redirect those funds towards higher priority modernization programs. 
   At the same hearing, Secretary of Defense Cohen requested funding to implement two more BRAC rounds, so that: scarce defense dollars will not continue to be spent on excess infrastructure; rather, on the vital needs of our Armed Forces. 
   Some of my colleagues argue that the base-closing process is appropriate, the need is there, but the base-closing process in 1994 was politically tainted; that politics and not sound defense policy dictated what would stay open, what would be 
   closed, and the schedule for closures. 
   This amendment clearly obviates the potential for that by declaring that the base-closing rounds will take place in the year 2003 and in 2005. There will be a new administration. Any aspersions to the operations of this administration should have no effect whatever when we consider the legislation included in this amendment. 
   I believe we can go forward with the notion that if we act today, we will have a much firmer picture of our strategic challenges, our strategic posture by the year 2003, so that we will in fact be anticipating those strategic decisions by giving our military leaders, both civilian and military, the tools to implement their concepts to meet the new challenges, the new threats we see all around the world. 
   This issue, as I said, is difficult. It impinges on the communities we all represent. Anytime we authorize a base closing round, essentially we put all of our facilities in play. We all run the risk of losing a facility which is a vital part of our community, disrupting our community. But that is the very narrow view, a very parochial view. 
   The broader national view is that we need to eliminate the excess capacity. We need to free up resources for higher priority initiatives of the Department of Defense. We need, also, to move away from this essentially still World War II infrastructure to a much more reduced but more efficient logistical and facility base for the future of this new century. Until we are able to eliminate some of these older posts, some of these posts that were designed for and that were extremely important in World War II and throughout the cold war years, we will not have the resource to do what we have to do to face the future. 
   I suggest we adopt this amendment because it gives us the ability to fund higher priority functions. It gives us the ability to eliminate unnecessary facilities. We simply can't have it both ways. We can't continue to argue for modernization, for enhancement of the quality of life for our troops, for additional training dollars, and still cling to facilitates that are not needed, still insist that we maintain a World War II and cold war infrastructure as we face the challenges of this new century. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, give our defense leaders the tools to reduce their overhead as they have reduced the force structure, so that we have a more efficient, more effective military force for this new century. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I would like at this time to pay my respects to FBI Special Agent John Joseph Truslow. John Truslow, an FBI agent stationed in Providence, was more than ``just an agent.'' He was a brave man, a Rhode Islander who cherished his home state and served its people with courage and distinction. 
   John grew up in Central Falls, Rhode Island and attended the University of Rhode Island, receiving a bachelor's degree in 1972 and a master's degree in 1978. In 1980, he joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York, where he was assigned for eleven years. 
   In 1991, John Truslow transferred back home to Rhode Island, with his wife, Diane, and their two children, Catherine and David. 
   During the next nine years with the Bureau, John Truslow distinguished himself by leading several federal probes that attacked corruption in our cities and towns. 
   In 1996, when the North Cape barge ran aground at Moonstone Beach, spilling over 800,000 gallons of home heating oil into Narragansett Bay and killing millions of fish and wildlife, John Truslow was hard at work. Throughout that year and the next, he led a methodical investigation, which uncovered the corporate negligence that contributed to the disaster. Because of his work, a groundbreaking agreement was reached in which the owner of the North Cape agreed to pay $9.5 million in criminal damages. Today, despite one of the worst environmental accidents in Rhode Island's history, Narragansett Bay is recovering, due, large part, to the work of Mr. Truslow. 
   Described by friends and co-workers as a man of substance and a man of honor, John continued to report to work each day, even after 
   having been diagnosed with terminal brain cancer in August 1999. In fact, on April 5, one day after his twentieth anniversary with the FBI and after months of being physically ravaged by cancer and the effects of chemotherapy, John testified before a federal grand jury to present evidence which lead to the indictment on bankruptcy fraud charges of a Rhode Island traffic court judge. Twelve days later, on April 17, he was in court for that indictment. 
   John was a dedicated agent, working up until his final days. We are humbled by his courage, allegiance to duty and  his perseverance in the face of adversity. He served with honor and distinction, for the people of his home state of Rhode Island as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
   Unfortunately, John lost his battle with cancer on May 5. To his family, I offer my sincerest condolences. 
   I need not tell them that they can be proud of John; they already know that. But, I would like them to know what John's work meant to so many in our state. He made a difference in our criminal justice system and has left a lasting impression on friends, co-workers and colleagues in law enforcement. 
   While he is gone, John's legacy of duty and courage lives on, and his record of service to his country and Rhode Island will not soon be forgotten. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my support for the conference report on H.R. 2559, the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000. This conference report has two major components: a crop insurance reform bill and a major farm relief package. I want to comment briefly on each of these. 
   I support the crop insurance reform bill because it will increase premium subsidies for farmers who buy more comprehensive coverage and support research of new crop insurance policies for currently non-insurable specialty crops that are important in Rhode Island and other states in the Northeast. It is an important step forward in a long-term bipartisan effort to encourage farmers across the country to obtain more crop insurance coverage and reduce income losses due to natural disasters. I was disappointed that the Senate bill's risk management pilot project was dropped in conference with the House. The pilot project would have allowed farmers to choose between traditional crop insurance and a direct payment for adopting new risk management practices such as farm diversification, futures contracts and options, creation of conservation buffers, soil erosion control, and irrigation management. I believe we should continue to explore ways to offer increased income to farmers for whom crop insurance has not worked well, while encouraging producers to adopt new risk management strategies that are good for the environment. 
   I am pleased that this crop insurance bill removes the ``area trigger'' for the Non-insured Crop Disaster Assistance Program, also known as NAP. I believe broader NAP eligibility is one of the most effective ways to assist farmers in the eastern United States who face severe production losses due to drought, floods, or other disasters. 
   Currently, NAP crops are eligible for assistance when: (1) expected ``Area Yield'' for the crop is reduced by more than 35 percent because of natural disaster; and (2) individual crop losses are in excess of 50 percent of the individual's approved yield, or the producer is prevented from planting more than 35 percent of the acreage intended for the eligible crop. 
   These criteria have proven to be unworkable in many eastern states, both in terms of program accessibility and timeliness of payments. For individual growers of specialty crops, typically grown on small acreage, a loss of as little as 20 percent can be devastating, especially given the high per-acre value of these crops. Moreover, the process of verifying area yield reductions is cumbersome and exceedingly time-consuming, resulting in waiting periods of several months or, in some cases, more than a year for payment. 
   Giving the Secretary of Agriculture broader discretion over delivery of NAP program funds will streamline the approval process and make direct assistance available to thousands of farmers whose substantial losses do not meet NAP criteria under the current area trigger. 
   I am also pleased that the bill includes $50 million for the Secretary of Agriculture to provide cost-share assistance to farmers in states with low historical participation in traditional crop insurance programs. These funds will be targeted to farmers who pursue innovative conservation and risk management techniques, including: streambank repairs and reconstruction; integrated pest management tools; construction or improvement of watershed management structures; transition to organic farming, particularly among dairy farmers; and futures, hedging or options contracts to help reduce production, price or revenue risks. 
   Substantial funds are also included for crop insurance education and information 
   programs for states with low levels of federal crop insurance participation and availability. Combining expanded outreach programs like these with increased research into new policies for specialty crops is the best way to get more farmers into the program and hopefully reduce the need for farm disaster legislation. 
   With regard to the farm relief component of the conference report before us today, I am disappointed that the entire $5.5 billion of the package's FY2000 funds, fully 77% of the $7.1 billion provided in this farm assistance package, consists of additional AMTA or ``Freedom to Farm'' payments. Only a very small proportion of farmers in my state and in other Northeastern states will benefit from these payments. Meanwhile, additional AMTA payments will be made to many other farmers regardless of whether they have experienced substantial losses during the current crop year. 
   I and many of my colleagues from the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic opposed the farm disaster bill passed by the Senate last year because it did not provide adequate relief to farmers in our region who were hit by the terrible drought conditions of 1999. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) found that four states in the Northeast, including Rhode Island, New Jersey, Maryland, and Delaware, experienced the driest growing season in their histories. From April through July, Rhode Island was the driest it has been in 105 years of record-keeping by NOAA's National Climatic Data Center. 
   Forecasters at the National Weather Service are predicting continued drought conditions this year, because we are starting out with a deficit of rainfall and, even with the snowstorms of January, winter precipitation was 3.5 inches below normal for our region.  
   Fortunately, the removal of the NAP area trigger I described earlier will help if disaster strikes again this year. In addition, the farm relief package includes $200 million for purchases of specialty crops for low prices in 1998 and 1999, including apples, cranberries, black-eyed peas, cherries, citrus, onions, melons, peaches, and potatoes. Manager language is included to direct the Secretary of Agriculture, to the extent practicable, to purchase directly from farmers or agricultural co-ops. 
   Another $5 million is provided by the farm relief package for apple producers that are suffering economic loss as a result of low prices. $35 million is provided for Loan Deficiency Payments for non-AMTA farms for the 2000 crop year, and $50 million is provided for the Farmland Protection Program and the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, both of which are important to my state and the Northeastern region of the country. Finally, the farm relief package requires the Department of Agriculture to purchase specialty crop farm products for the school lunch program, again with manager language included to direct the Secretary, to the extent practicable, to purchase directly from farmers or agricultural co-ops. 
   With the passage of this legislation we will give farmers the tools they need to manage their risk more effectively, and possibly reduce the need for Congress to pass massive farm disaster packages year after year. At the same time, I believe we are beginning to recognize the contributions and needs of farmers in every region of the country, farmers who not only feed the world but preserve a way of life that makes our Nation stronger and protects our precious open spaces from the encroachment of development and urban sprawl. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the conference report to accompany the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the majority leader for his kindness. 
   Mr. President, I am fortunate enough to know both of these gentlemen: Adm. Bob Natter, an extraordinary naval officer who has been confirmed as a four-star admiral; and, most particularly, I am pleased that my colleagues have confirmed the nomination of Col. Daniel Kaufman to be a brigadier general in the U.S. Army and dean of the Academic Board at West Point. 
   I have known Dan Kaufman for over 30 years. I was a plebe at West Point in Company C-2 when he was a first classman in the summer 1967. He is an extraordinary individual, a great soldier, a distinguished scholar. 
   I also recognize the gentleman whom he is succeeding, Gen. Fletcher Lamkin, who is the current dean. General Lamkin has done an outstanding job at West Point. I thank him for his service. 
   But I am delighted to be able to stand here in the well of the Senate to commend Dan Kaufman. He is a soldier first, a soldier of war above everything else. 
   After graduating from West Point in 1968, he volunteered for training as an Army ranger. He sought an assignment as an armor officer. He was a platoon leader with the 11th Armored Cavalry Regiment in Vietnam. 
   He received a Bronze Star for valor in action and received two Purple Hearts leading his platoon in Vietnam. 
   He returned to the Army in the United States and pursued his graduate education at the Kennedy School at Harvard, and once again Dan Kaufman and I were together. After he received his master's degree at Harvard, and subsequent service with the 82nd Airborne Division, he received a Ph.D. in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
   He combines these two virtues and values: A soldier's soldier and a scholar's scholar. 
   He is the ideal choice for the deanship at West Point today, for a school in transformation, for an Army in transformation. As a soldier, he has seen war. He understands that one of the greatest privileges an American can ever have is the privilege of leading American soldiers. Also, one of the greatest honors an American can have is to lead those soldiers well. He has won such an honor. 
   He is also someone who is in touch with the greater Army. He is someone that has been actively involved in numerous issues that deal with the Army, not just academically but very much in its day-to-day activities. 
   He is not an ivory tower scholar. He is an actively engaged soldier. He will instill in the cadets vital skills: the ability to analyze a changing world; and a zest to learn throughout their careers, and to help the Army and move it forward. 
   He is also a family man. His wife Kathryn, his son David, his daughter Emily--they all serve too, and serve the Army extraordinarily well. 
   The mission at West Point is to train young men and women of character for a career of selfless service to the Army and the Nation. 
   Dan Kaufman will expand that mission and move it forward for a generation of West Point cadets who will enter our Army and will do so better prepared, as soldiers who are able to lead as thoughtful members of our military forces. 
   And something else. Because of his example, because of the choices he will make, their hearts and their lives will march to a very simple but profound cadence: Duty, honor, country. 
   I thank the majority leader and yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000522</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, and still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read some of the names of those who lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. 
   Following are the names of just some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago on May 19, 20, and 21. 
   May 19, 1999: 
   Clarence Arnold, 32, Knoxville, TN 
   Troy Blando, 39, Houston, TX 
   Don T. Huey, 32, Houston, TX 
   David Johnson, 31, Houston, TX 
   Booker Miles, 27, Louisville, KY 
   James Nash, 40, Atlanta, GA 
   Leon Pickett, Detroit, MI 
   Mark Thompson, 31, Baltimore, MD 
   Willie D. Watts, 39, Gary, IN 
   Cedric White, 19, Atlanta, GA 
   May 20, 1999: 
   Eric Michael Allen, 30, Detroit, MI 
   Roderick R. Brown, 27, Memphis, TN 
   John Cosgrove, 71, Miami-Dade County, FL 
   Paul Davis, 28, Chicago, IL 
   Stephen Entsminger, 49, Davenport, IA 
   Maria Josefina Eslava, 23, Houston, TX 
   Curtis O. Green, 17, Chicago, IL 
   Travis Johnson, 20, Rockford, IL 
   Demarcus Kelly, 26, Atlanta, GA 
   Aaron Murphy, Jr., 40, Macon, GA 
   Kevin Stokes, 27, Atlanta, GA 
   Male, 56, Honolulu, HI 
   May 21, 1999: 
   James Alberts, 35, Bridgeport, CT 
   Quan Bell, 28, Detroit, MI 
   Edward Belton, 18, St. Louis, MO 
   Richard Daniels, 27, Fort Worth, TX 
   Anthony Houston, 21, Detroit, MI 
   Michelle Jackson, 21, St. Louis, MO 
   Steven Jupiter, 19, Baltimore MD 
   Werner Muense, 81, Minneapolis, MN 
   John Minaya, 19, Providence, RI 
   Karl Paul Pitts, 22, Detroit, MI 
   Michael Marion Raymond, 22, Washington, DC 
   Osualdo Rodriquez, 23, Houston, TX 
   Sheri Thielen, 40, Minneapolis, MN 
   May 19, 1999 (Houston, Texas): 
   Police Officer Troy Blando was fatally shot while attempting to arrest an auto theft suspect. Jeffery Demond Williams pulled into a parking lot in a stolen Lexus, and the 39-year-old Blando, working on the auto theft task force, was undercover in an unmarked vehicle. Blando approached Williams after he had run a check on the license plate and discovered the vehicle had been stolen. 
   A struggle ensued, and Blando put away his gun as he tried to handcuff the suspect's wrists. At that point, Williams pulled out a gun and shot the police officer, who was pronounced dead later that evening after doctors were unable to save him. 
   Police Officer Troy Blando is survived by his widow who suffers from multiple sclerosis, and his 14-year-old son. Williams has been convicted and sentenced to die. 
   May 20, 1999 (Conyers, Georgia): 
   As students mingled before class at Heritage High School in Conyers, Georgia, on May 20, 1999, fifteen-year-old Thomas Solomon pulled out a rifle and a handgun and began to open fire. Six students were injured and an assistant principal had to talk Solomon out of killing himself after he put a gun in his mouth. This incident took place exactly one month after Littleton, Colorado. 
   May 21, 1999 (Providence, Rhode Island):  
   Twenty-four-year-old John Minaya was accosted and fatally shot outside a busy Dairy Queen ice cream shop in Providence's West End early on the evening of May 21, 1999. Officers found Minaya lying on the pavement in the parking lot shortly after 7:00 p.m. He had been hit more than once, and people were ministering to him. He was taken to Rhode Island Hospital, but he died within minutes. 
   Though it was still springtime, Minaya was Providence's 13th homicide victim of 1999, a year in which there were ultimately 26 murders in the city, up from 15 in 1998 and 13 in 1997. The majority of these killings were committed with firearms, and most of these were handguns. 
   The children and families who witnessed the shooting of John Minaya in broad daylight at a Dairy Queen in Providence will carry the horrific memory of that day with them for as long as they live. We should do our part to ensure that fewer Americans experience gun violence by passing common sense gun legislation without further delay.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Senator from Washington for yielding the time. 
   I rise in support of Senator DASCHLE's resolution to commend the participants in the Million Mom March, and to also call on Congress to pass meaningful gun safety legislation. Senator DASCHLE, as we all know, has been a long-time advocate and leader on the issue of gun control. I thank him for taking this issue on. I would prefer, frankly, to be speaking about real legislation. 
   I find it ironic that Members of the Senate would be bemoaning the fact that we don't have real legislation before us when, in fact, legislation is bottled up in a conference committee because of a gun lobby in the NRA. We all would prefer to be speaking about real legislation that would do something. 
   This is a resolution that follows another resolution I sponsored just a few weeks ago on the budget that would have called for the conferees to meet and to discharge and send to us a conference report including all the provisions, including the Lautenberg-Kerrey gun show provision that we passed almost a year ago. That resolution passed 53-47 on a bipartisan basis. 
   It is quite clear that these measures should return to us in the form of the juvenile justice conference report that will be passed by this Senate. 
   What that caused is the gun lobby and the NRA to do all they can to ensure that conference report stays locked up in the conference. 
   We are here today because we want to move forward on an agenda of sensible gun control. We want to respond to the thousands and thousands of mothers who came to Washington last weekend and who asked us to act responsibly to protect the children of this country. A vast majority of Americans support us. They support these measures, and they, in fact, are insistent that we take action. 
   If there is any reason today why we are talking about another resolution on a military construction appropriations, it is because the gun lobby has dug themselves in to prevent consideration of real legislation. We have to overcome that opposition. We have to overcome it by word and by deed. Last Sunday, the mothers of America marched. Now it is our responsibility to act today at least by passing this resolution. 
   We also know the real sticking point in this legislative battle is the Lautenberg-Kerrey amendment with respect to gun shows. What we want to do and what I think the American people want to do is apply the same rules of the Brady background checks to all sales at gun shows. The Brady bill gives law enforcement authority up to 72 hours--brief as it is--to conduct a background check on a prospective purchaser of a firearm. 
   What happened was in the development of the original Brady law there was a loophole created which would  allow unlicensed dealers at gun shows to avoid these background checks. Interestingly enough, three of the weapons used by the Columbine killers were acquired at a gun show because even these young men knew that they could go to a gun show and avoid a background check, and that they could, in cohort with another, purchase arms without a background check. We want to close it. I hope we can. 
   This is also the case throughout the country where this is not just a Democratic-Republican issue. 
   The Governor of Colorado, Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, recently signed a petition to place a gun show initiative with a 3-day background check on the ballot in his home State of Colorado. 
   It is sensible, and it is long overdue. The opponents of this measure are suggesting that this is a mandatory waiting period--it is a 3-day waiting period--that a waiting period would destroy the gun shows. That is not the case. In fact, if you look at what is happening, it is because of technology. Because of the national instant check system, the FBI can clear 72 percent of gun buyers within 30 seconds. Another 23 percent are cleared within 2 hours. Ninety-five percent of those individuals who wish to purchase a firearm in this country have their background checks completed in 2 hours. 
   What about the other 5 percent? 
   The other 5 percent found out they are 20 times more likely to have prohibitive information in their files which will restrict their access to a firearm. Here is what is happening: The gun lobby and the NRA protect 5 percent of gun purchasers who are much more likely to be prohibited from owning firearms, are willing to sabotage the closing of this loophole, are willing to jeopardize, if you will, the safety of Americans. I don't think that is right. 
   What we can and should apply the Brady law across the board to all sales of gun shows. I don't think it will interfere materially in any way with the rights of a law-abiding citizen to acquire a firearm. In fact, I think it will contribute to the public safety and to the sense that the mothers in America tried so vividly to create last weekend: That this country, with all of its violence, has to do something different and has to do something better. 
   I hope we can move forward with real legislation, not another resolution. I hope we can recognize what hundreds of thousands of Americans were saying to their Government last Sunday: Pass sensible gun safety legislation. 
   I commend the mothers and all the supporters who were on The Mall. I commend Senator DASCHLE for his efforts. I hope we will, before Memorial Day, be voting on the juvenile justice bill containing these measures which will protect all Americans, and particularly the children in America. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, today for the second time in a month, the Senate of the United States has gone on record supporting sensible gun safety legislation. It has gone on record to say that we should close the gun show loophole; that we should ban the importation of large capacity ammunition clips; that we should require the use of child safety locks; that we should prohibit the possession of assault weapons by juveniles. 
   This body could not be clearer on where it stands when it comes down to the issues. What is confusing is the fact that we are unable to reach these issues in a substantive, decisive way because the legislation is not on this floor but bottled up in a conference committee. 
   We are responding to many things. Most recently, we were responding to hundreds of thousands of American men and women who came to this capital to ask their Senators to act. How do we act? We do it by debate and by voting. That is what we did this afternoon. It is difficult, sometimes, to achieve a vote because of the procedures of the Senate, but in consequence of that, there has always been the presumption that debate should be free ranging, should be open, and should be easy to obtain. 
   Today, we should celebrate not only the victory--again, within a month--of what I think is reason over unreason, of sensible safety when it comes to guns, over a fascination with the proliferation of weapons in society, but we all should celebrate the fact that finally and ultimately we have gotten a chance to speak about this issue, speak for the hundreds of thousands of mothers who came last weekend to Washington to ask us to live up to our oaths and our duty and to protect their children and all Americans by enacting sensible gun safety legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Michigan for yielding his time. 
   First, there are no more respected and trusted Members of the Senate than Senator WARNER and Senator BYRD. When one approaches their amendment and their language with respect to Kosovo, it is with a position of both, as I mentioned, trust and respect. 
   However, after examining the amendment, I must disagree with their conclusion and the amendment. Let me also say by way of an aside, I certainly do support the underlying provisions of the military construction appropriations bill and I commend both Senator BURNS and Senator MURRAY for all their hard work. 
   As I indicated, I am concerned about the amendment offered by my colleagues, Senator BYRD and Senator WARNER. The Byrd-Warner amendment provides for several things. First, section 2410 of the bill would prohibit the expenditure of funds for the continued deployment of ground troops after July 1, 2001, unless the President seeks and secures congressional authorization to continue the deployment beyond that date.  
   This, I think, is one of the more central parts of their amendment. Essentially, it says our troops will come out by July 2001 unless the Congress acts affirmatively to keep them there. 
   There has been some discussion throughout this debate about senatorial prerogative and roles of the Senate in forging policy with respect to deployment of our troops. I don't believe this debate is ultimately about, or should be about, senatorial prerogatives. It is quite clear, given the power of the purse, we can compel the extraction of our forces by simply cutting off the funds. That principle is clear. What is at stake here is the consequences of such an action, whether such an action would inure to our benefit or whether it would be a costly error. I believe it would not inure to our benefit. I believe the consequences would be detrimental not only to our position in the world, our position in NATO, but ultimately to the position of our forces within Kosovo. 
   Let me suggest what I believe to be the consequences of the passage of this amendment. It would signal to those forces both within the Albanian Kosovars and the Serbian Kosovars that our commitment to staying in Kosovo is limited to a year. As a result, they will, for their own protection and also to advance their own particular plans after our departure, begin to rearm, begin to become much more provocative, begin to assault each other. 
   Frankly, given the imbalance of population and forces within Kosovo, it is more likely that the Albanian Kosovars will try to seek a final remedy by displacement of Serbians out of Kosovo before, in their view, the departure of the summit forces, which would likely be accompanied by significant reduction, or certainly a diminution, of the international commitment to Kosovo. 
   With this combination, we are creating a very destabilizing situation within Kosovo. That destabilized situation would, I think, jeopardize the safety of our forces there. As a result, we would have a situation where we were injecting the kind of uncertainty, the kind of instability, that would, I think, blow up in our faces in terms of our troops. 
   I mention what the Albanian Kosovars might do. I think Milosevic, being shrewd, clever, and unyielding, would seek to regain through this action what he lost on the battlefield, would continue to accelerate the introduction of his forces back into Kosovo in the guise of civilians; would begin, if he could, to circumvent embargoes on weapons to bring weapons in, setting the stage for violence, for acceleration of violence, which I think inevitably would touch our troops. 
   Finally, if one is sitting back and watching these developments from within Kosovo, and one is expecting a vote of this Congress with respect to whether our troops will stay or they will go, one might conclude or deduce, based upon recent history, that the quickest way to accelerate our departure is to harm our troops. That is one lesson, perhaps imprecise, but one lesson of Somalia. When American forces, with overwhelming firepower, confronted basically tribal forces armed with AK-47s and RPGs, we were staying the course until tragically we lost two helicopters and a number of Army rangers and Army personnel, and then quickly we were through. We don't know if that is the lesson the leadership in Kosovo would draw, but certainly it is plausible. 
   As a result, as we spin out these consequences, the requirement within this amendment to withdraw, unless there is congressional approval, sets in motion a chain of events which I think will not lead to stability, will not lead to an environment of peace and tranquility, or at least minimize violence, but could very well unwittingly, unconsciously--and certainly this is not the intent of anyone here particularly--lead to more violence, more instability, which perhaps would force us to withdraw for political reasons long before we could ever sit down and have a vote in this Senate and in the other body on whether we should continue our presence in Kosovo. 
   Essentially, what we are doing here today, as I mentioned, is not charting the prerogatives of the Senate but trying to assess the consequences of what we will do, trying to look ahead and not to the rear. One could come here, and I think should come here, and question how we got into Kosovo, how we were consulted by the White House. Many of these questions are legitimate. Many of these questions have been raised many other times on this floor. But today we should be looking ahead. As we look ahead, I think the consequences of this act would be detrimental rather than helpful to our international position and to the safety of our forces on the ground. 
   There is a second provision, and that provision is to develop a plan to shift responsibility for providing ground forces to European nations by July 1, 2001. Again, I do not believe there is anyone in this body who would question the central role that Europe must play in securing the peace, not just in Kosovo but in the entire Balkans. So the plan for the organized shift of responsibilities is sensible. Certainly I approve of this. I do not think anyone disapproves of it. 
   There is a final proviso and that is withholding 25 percent of the fiscal year 2000 supplemental funds unless the White House certifies that European allies are paying their promised share of reconstruction and humanitarian assistance. Again, no one can question or argue that the Europeans should do more, should do their share. Whether or not this amendment would prompt them to do that is another question. But this is an element of the amendment that I believe certainly engenders the kind of debate, and we hope pressure, political and otherwise, that would require the Europeans to pay their share, to carry their load, to respond to a crisis that is in their backyard and not in our backyard. 
   All of these elements together--but most particularly the first element, the deadline for withdrawal if there is no approving vote by the Congress of the United States--are troubling and will, as I suggested, set in motion a series of events that could not only destabilize our position but force us to pull out, not in an organized way but in quite a disorganized way. 
   We all are concerned about what appears to be an open-ended commitment. I do not believe this is the way to respond to that concern. Perhaps there is no good way to respond to that concern. Perhaps the only way to do so is to begin to work with our allies so, on a programmed, planned basis, we can substitute additional U.S. forces with European forces. Perhaps it is by working with the United Nations to see that they back up their words with real resources, real dollars, so they can begin the reconstruction, and also to work with the European Community so they can do the same in terms of their commitments; also to begin to work with international groups, the United Nations and others, to develop the capacity to have available real police forces, not those who have been trained to patrol the reasonably serene streets of metropolitan areas in the United States and Canada and elsewhere, but those police forces that are trained for this type of almost paramilitary operation. 
   Those steps take time. But that is a way to address this issue of an open-ended commitment of our military forces. It is an issue we must address because, regardless of what we do with respect to Kosovo, we have similar challenges in East Timor and other places that require the same kind of international humanitarian and reconstructive aid, as well as international police forces. 
   There is another issue that emanates from this amendment, and that is the message we are sending to our allies about our participation in an international effort. We are in Kosovo because, not only are we a member of NATO, we are the leader of NATO. Our allies have joined us in this effort. This is not a unilateral American response to a problem. This is an 
   international response with our allies through the mechanism of NATO. Indeed, I believe if we are signaling our response is weakening, that signal will be taken very badly by our allies in Europe and around the world. 
   We did an extraordinary job with our military forces, our air power, in securing our entry into Kosovo, the entry of NATO. It would seem to me to be turning away from that great military success at this juncture by our own action, essentially signaling to our NATO allies we are no longer prepared to assist  them in the efforts in Kosovo. I believe it would, in fact, trigger their parliaments to conduct the same types of debates we are conducting, and the same type of vote if this measure passes. And, as a result, the cohesion, the commitment--not just of the United States but of NATO and European forces--would be dissipated and, in fact, we would see perhaps the end of international involvement in Kosovo. 
   The other thing to recognize is that, of the 49,500 troops on the ground, 5,300 are American forces, about 10 percent of the total. This is not a disproportionately American-led operation today on the ground in Kosovo. Indeed, if you look at the U.N. international police forces in Kosovo, of the 1,900 police officers, 430 are Americans. In terms of reconstruction, we are scheduled to pay about 14 percent of the reconstruction, 20 percent of the humanitarian aid. These numbers are in line with a joint international effort not dominated by the United States, but our shared participation is vital to its success. 
   If we choose to make this judgment with respect to Kosovo, we also have to ask ourselves, reasonably: Will our participation elsewhere be questioned? What about our Australian allies who have shouldered a disproportionate burden in East Timor and have asked us repeatedly both for practical and political reasons to participate with them? Will they suddenly get nervous about our resolve there and curtail their activities in a country which desperately needs international support to make the transformation from a dependency, a captured territory, really, of Indonesia, to an independent country? 
   We can see many other places around the world where our resolve might be seriously questioned. So the ramifications of this vote are not just within the context of Kosovo. They would reach out across the globe literally to raise questions of our role in the world with respect to our allies and our adversaries. 
   Speaking of adversaries, one has to ask how would this be interpreted by Milosevic in Belgrade? I think he would see this as his salvation. After losing five wars in the Balkans, after seeing his country practically dismembered, after seeing his cities destroyed from the air, suddenly we would offer him the hope of some ultimate justification because, if we leave, the pressure on our allies to go also will be, perhaps, unstoppable. Also, if we leave, and if my worst fears come about that there is renewed interethnic violence between Serbs and Albanians within Kosovo, he will be able to stand in his figurative pulpit and claim that he is doing precisely what we did; that he is using his military forces to stop the ethnic cleansing of Kosovar Serbs by Kosovar Albanians, and that he is justified, morally and politically, on the same basis we were, to enter back into Kosovo with force, if necessary, to vindicate the same moral principles we claimed. 
   Would that not be a terrible irony in history? Yet that very well could happen. I believe Milosevic and his colleagues in Belgrade would embrace any slight weakening of our resolve. 
   The other aspect we have to look at, and it is one that is geared to all of us here but none more so than the sponsors of this amendment, is the status and the safety of our forces. 
   Again, one can always conjure up dangers, particularly when we have troops in as close contact as they are. The simple uncertainty of what we might do a year from now with respect to a vote would, I think, inject increased risks to our forces in the field. I do not think we should do that. I do not think it is necessary to do that. 
   We have heard from General Clark. He has been emphatic about his view that this course of action would not be wise or judicious. We have heard similarly from Secretary of Defense Cohen. 
   Our troops in the field already face a difficult task. They have combat power, but ultimately it is the resolve and the support of this Nation that stands behind them which is their greatest weapon. 
   They are in a very difficult and dangerous situation. They are in urban areas. Like so many of my colleagues, I traveled to Kosovo last July with Senator LEVIN, Senator SESSIONS, and Senator LANDRIEU. We traveled through Kosovo. It is and has been a violent land. It is a place where we saw as we went into Prizren, a town in the German sector, fires burning by renegades who are still trying to avenge themselves against the Serbs. 
   In that complicated area with cities, I do not think we want to unwittingly invite the hotheads, the terrorists, the ideologues to begin attacking our forces because that is not a place where our advantages militarily will come to the fore. In fact, we will be severely disadvantaged. 
   I hope we will reject this amendment. This is always very positive and productive because this body should be a place for debate and discussion. Senator WARNER and Senator BYRD have, once again, focused our attention on this issue in Kosovo, once again reminding us of how we got into the situation and also reminding us of our obligations to look ahead. In that sense, they have done a great service to this Senate, as they have done throughout their careers. 
   If we seize that challenge, if we look ahead, if we try to carefully measure the likely consequences, this amendment will not advance our cause, will not advance our position in the world, will not provide additional support and resolve to those forces within Kosovo that are seeking peace and reconciliation. It will, at best, create uncertainty and doubt which will generate, in my view, violence and, at worst, be a green light for those forces that want to finally eliminate their ethnic rivals or those forces that see this as an opportunity to, once again, get the upper hand on their ethnic rivals. 
   All these suggest we should reject this amendment and that we try, if we are concerned about the long-term status of our forces in that area, to work for an acceleration, as part of this amendment calls for, an acceleration of international assistance for reconstruction and humanitarian affairs, an acceleration of the deployment of police officers to absorb the responsibilities which now are being held by military forces, to accelerate our readiness for peacekeeping around the globe because we know, although we regret, there will be other situations such as this. 
   If we can do that based upon this debate, then we have accomplished a great deal, but I urge my colleagues to oppose these provisions and support Senator LEVIN's amendment to strike so we can send a message to our allies, to our soldiers, to our adversaries that we will stand behind our forces in Kosovo. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield back my remaining time to the Senator from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to express my concerns with the legislation before us. 
   While I support the intent of this legislation, increasing trade between Africa and the U.S., I will not be able to lend it my support. 
   This is in no way a comment on either Chairman ROTH or Senator MOYNIHAN. They have done yeoman's work on this legislation, which has been a longtime priority for them both. 
   Mr. President, my objection to this legislation is what it includes, and what it excludes.  
   The legislation includes provisions which are a less than comprehensive approach to establishing mutually beneficial trade relations with Africa. In addition, I have heard from Rhode Island textile manufacturers who remain concerned with the textile provisions in this legislation, specifically the less than perfect transhipment elements. Lastly, the legislation only includes a study of the effectiveness of Trade Adjustment Assistance, even though the Senate bill reauthorized and strengthened TAA for workers and businesses adversely affected by international trade. 
   On the other hand, the conference report excludes an amendment which is important to our country's jewelry manufacturers as well as Senator FEINGOLD's and Senator FEINSTEIN's amendment on HIV/AIDS treatment in African nations. 
   Last year, with the support of Chairman ROTH and Senator MOYNIHAN, the Senate adopted a common sense amendment to the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act to improve country of origin marking requirements for certain types of imported jewelry. 
   Now, improving the country of origin marking requirements for jewelry may seem like a modest proposal, but it took many years to develop a compromise on this issue that would pass the Senate. 
   To give a sense of how long it took, I first introduced this legislation in 1996 as a member of the other chamber, when members of our struggling domestic jewelry manufacturing industry came to me with a desire to see permanent country 
   of origin markings on imports. 
   These small businesses told me that all too often the stickers or tags meant to inform consumers where a product was made, fell off, were obscured by price tags, or in some cases were simply removed. Customs officials in Rhode Island also acknowledged that there was a problem with the marking regime on imported jewelry. 
   Most importantly, I found that the same concern on the part of domestic makers of Native American style jewelry had been addressed as part of the 1988 trade bill. It is upon this common sense law that I based my legislation. 
   Mr. President, as a general rule, the United States requires all imported products to display in the most permanent manner possible the nation where they were made. One only has to look at a watch, clothing, computers, televisions, scissors, books, toys, and almost every other product to see that its country of origin is conspicuously and permanently marked so consumers know where a product was manufactured. 
   The existence of these marking requirements is not due to some nefarious protectionist urge, rather it is simply a tool to provide consumers with information and help Customs officials easily recognize imports for the purposes of tariff classification. I would add that most of our trading partners have similar standards. 
   It was with the above in mind that I was pleased to work with the Chairman and Senator MOYNIHAN to develop a sensible amendment to increase the amount of imported jewelry that had to be permanently marked. However, I would point out that this language was also consistent with all trade laws and created no bar to the flow of imported jewelry. Moreover, the amendment did no more than establish marking requirement parity between non-precious jewelry and Native American style jewelry. And, lastly I am hard pressed to see how changing the method by which a product is marked leads to any increased costs for foreign manufacturers, since under the current country of origin system all products are legally required to be marked in some fashion. 
   Unfortunately, the House cavalierly dismissed the concerns of Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New York, and California jewelry makers for reasons of either ignorance or animosity to change. 
   I want to stress that I appreciate and recognize the time that the Chairman, Senator MOYNIHAN and their staffs put into this seemingly non-controversial provision. 
   While the legislation before us does not contain this common-sense amendment, I want to assure my colleagues here and in the other body, as well as the thousands of hard-working men and women of the domestic jewelry industry, that I will continue to pursue this issue and utilize all of the Senate's prerogatives to enact this legislation. Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I understood we would go back and forth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I would like to speak about the amendment, not necessarily in support but speak about the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank Senator FRIST, Senator KENNEDY, and Senator JEFFORDS. 
   I commend Senator LIEBERMAN and his colleagues for presenting a very thoughtful and principled alternative to discuss today. There are elements in this legislation which I support enthusiastically, and then there are other elements I do not accept and have great questions about. But the proposal of Senator LIEBERMAN along with colleagues underscores some critical points. 
   First of all, they underscore that the approach of S. 2--simply transferring money with very limited and ambiguous accountability provisions of the State--is not the way to reform accountability. Also, they recognized there is a legitimate State and local partnership that could be maintained and should be maintained, particularly in the context of title I. 
   They are also advocating a greater investment in education. That is something I know I agree with and I know many, if not all, of my colleagues on the Democratic side passionately agree with. Also, they advocate greater targeting of these funds into those low-income schools that need more assistance and, in fact, represent probably the best example why unconstrained State and local policy sometimes leads to bad outcomes. 
   If you look at the funding and the performance of schools in urban areas and low-income rural areas, you will see the combination of the property tax and local policies will lead to results, to outcomes we do not want. We at the Federal level have the opportunity and the resources to help a bit, at least, to change that outcome. Also, it recognizes the importance of class size reduction and school choice. All of these are very important. 
   In addition, it recognizes very strongly the notion and the need for accountability. Senator BINGAMAN has offered an amendment. He worked on this measure, not just in this Congress but in the preceding reauthorization. I joined him in that work as a Member of the other body. This provision is an important one. It is not part of the Lieberman proposal. I think it is something we should emphasize. 
   I do, though, disagree with the approach they are taking to consolidate certain programs because one of the issues with consolidation is that you tend to lose both the focal point and also we typically design specific targeted programs to do those things which States are unwilling to do or are not doing at the same level of resources which are necessary to accomplish a national purpose. 
   We can see examples throughout our policies. School libraries, I use, inevitably, to point out the fact that back in 1965 we did have direct Federal resources going to help collections of school libraries. In 1981 we rolled them into a consolidated block grant approach, and, frankly, if you spoke to school librarians, they would point out the status of their collections, which are very poor, with out-of-date books, and they would also say how difficult it is to get any real resources from the localities or States. Frankly, that is the type of acquisition they can always put off until next year and next year, and before you know it, it is 5 and 10 years and these books are out of date. 
   I believe, too, the proposal the Senator from Connecticut and his colleagues are advancing does not recognize some of the other challenges facing our schools. The fact is, we do need to 
   help the States and localities, apparently, to fix crumbling schools. One of the things I hear repeatedly from the other side is the wisdom of State and local Governors about public education. If that is the case, why are there so many decrepit school buildings throughout our country? Why are there so many children going to schools to which we would be, frankly, embarrassed to send children? It is not because people are either ignorant or evil at these local levels. It is because when you have a limited tax base, when you have many other priorities, when most of the local budgets are consumed by personnel costs, it is awfully difficult without some outside help--i.e., Federal help--to do certain things. One of them, apparently, is to ensure that school buildings are maintained at a level where we would not be embarrassed to send children. 
   There are schools in Rhode Island that are over 100 years old. They are crumbling. They need help. Every time I go into these communities, I do not have local school committee people and mayors saying: Go away; take your terrible, terrible Federal rules and regulations away from us. I have them imploring me: Can you help us get some resources from the Federal Government to fix up our schools? That is the reality, not the rhetoric and mumbo jumbo about big education bureaucrats and everything else. There is potential in the Lieberman amendment. Unfortunately, this aspect of putting all these programs together defeats the purpose. 
   I have two other quick points. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I request 1 more minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Vermont and the Senator from Tennessee for their graciousness. 
   I commend them particularly for bringing up the issue of increased resources and targeting. One of the ironies is, we who have been doing this over the last few years fought through the last reauthorization. Targeting of resources of title I programs is intensely divisive politically. Particularly Members of the other body do not want to see their allocation in title I funds decreased, even if they represent fairly affluent communities. It is one thing to talk about targeting, but it is something else to have the political will to engage in that. I tried it in 1994, along with others. We made moderate success. I would be happy to join the battle of targeting again, but I would be remiss if I did not point out the real challenges of getting a bill such as this through both Houses of the Congress. 
   Again, I thank the Senator from Tennessee for his graciousness, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to support Senator MURRAY's amendment and commend her. 
   I begin by talking about this issue of status quo that has been bandied about. Let me suggest what the status quo is in America. The status quo is that Governors and mayors and school committees fundamentally decide educational policy in this country. In fact, the Senator from Arkansas gave a good example of how a Governor really screwed it up. He decided he wanted smaller class size, but he didn't understand or recognize that you also had control for the quality of the teachers, so the result is in poor districts there are lots of unqualified teachers. 
   Is that an example of a Federal program run amok? No, it is an example of a Governor who got it wrong. What is the Republican proposal? Let's give Governors, including Governor Wilson, carte blanche to do what they will with educational policy. I can't think of any example that more closely undercuts this Straight A approach to education than the example of what was done in California. 
   It is much different than what Senator MURRAY is advocating. One of the reasons why there were problems in California, I suspect, is they did not have the extra resources necessary to ensure both smaller class size and teacher quality. That is why this program is adding Federal dollars to State resources and local resources, so we control both size of the class and the quality of teachers. 
   I also think it is interesting to note when talking about the collapse and  decline of American education, people point to international experiences. Frankly, most international systems are nationally based educational programs. Japan is one which has strong national standards which do not give money away to the head of the prefecture or the head of the province. They have national curricula. They have national teacher certification. So if you are going to have a comparison between why we are failing vis-a-vis other nations, recognize the approach the Republicans are proposing is diametrically opposed to what is done in most of the leading industrialized nations of the world. They are not talking about national anything. They are talking about vesting in every little State, every little community, the authority. 
   Sometimes, frankly, I guess this has been a useful debate. The Senator from Arkansas recognizes that Governors really mess it up sometimes. So I do not think we have to take that approach. 
   I think we can rely, not only on statistics and studies--and the Tennessee example has not been refuted--but just common sense. Ask any teacher. Ask any parent. Would you prefer to teach 30 children or 18? I suspect anyone in the Senate with children of school age, when asked whether they 
   would prefer to have their child in a class of 30 or a class of 18, would say, unhesitatingly, 18. That is common sense. 
   That is what we are about here and that is what this amendment is doing. For the last 2 years we have actually embarked on this program. We are providing assistance and it is flexible, not in the abstract but in the particular. The Providence, RI, Superintendent of Schools wanted to engage in this approach, using extra resources to augment her teaching staff and reduce class size. She received from the Department of Education a waiver which allowed these resources to fund literacy coaches to co-teach in elementary schools 50 percent of the time and to deliver school-based professional development for the balance of the time. It was a flexible approach meeting local needs under the context of the existing legislation. So these theoretical concerns about a lack of flexibility are disproved when you actually look at what systems are doing and what they can do. 
   All of this goes to the real, fundamental issue. Are we going to continue our commitment to lower class size supported both by common sense and by the statistical reviews done already, particularly in Tennessee, or are we going to embark on a carte blanche check to Governors? 
   We have a good example in the previous discussion about a Governor who really got it badly wrong. It illustrates the status quo. The status quo is that Governors and local communities control the quality of teachers. They control fundamental policies. They get it wrong sometimes. Yet the whole Republican approach is give them more resources, give them a list of things they can do, as the menu in a Chinese restaurant, and then that is it. 
   There is also before us now an amendment by Senators ABRAHAM and MACK which would add to this list and diffuse even further our focus on disadvantaged children; programs and policies we know, based upon listening to teachers and parents and looking at research, could work to improve performance of schools. They want to add to the list merit pay and tenure reform and others, which I presume is their approach to professional development. But that is not going to directly improve the quality of teaching in the United States. 
   We know from research, from listening to witnesses at our hearings, that professional development today, in the States, is generally recognized by teachers as inadequate. They feel unprepared to deal with these issues. Is that a Federal problem? No. That is because of State policies, local policies. But we can help. In fact, if you look at most professional development across the United States, it is ad hoc, one-shot lectures or seminars or sessions. In fact, in 1998, participation in professional development programs in the United States typically lasted from only 1 to 8 hours during the course of a school year. That is absolutely insufficient. 
   We know from research and analysis that good professional development has to be in the school, embedded in the program. It has to be content based. It has to give teachers facility and mastery of the topic and the ability to relate with their children. That is not done with 1 to 8 hours. It is done constantly, persistently throughout the school year. That is what is done by an amendment that Senator KENNEDY and myself will be offering later. It provides support for that type of professional development which we know works, which will deepen teachers' knowledge of content, which will allow teachers to 
   work collaboratively. 
   That is another failing in our system of professional development. Teachers come in in the morning; they rush from class to class. They might see the other teachers in the lunchroom for 20 minutes. They rush from class to class, go back in, and then they have to go home and take care of their families just as the rest of us. We need more collaboration. That is not in this bill, not even a hint of it. 
   We have to also provide the kind of opportunities for mentoring and review and coaching which we know work--not just rhetorically but actually give resources to the States if they want to do it, and to local communities if they want to do it. That is the approach I think will work. That is the approach that was a large part of the legislation I submitted, the Professional Development Reform Act. 
   I hope we can go ahead and not only support Senator MURRAY's well-thought-out, well-crafted proposal to reduce class size, but also to reject the Mack-Abraham approach and support, later in our debate, after deliberation, Senator KENNEDY's approach and my approach, which is for professional development that has been proven by practitioners to work to the benefit of children. I hope we can do that. 
   I think we have seen, perhaps inadvertently, what could go wrong. Talk about unintended consequences. I add, these are probably predictable consequences. There will be Governors who did what Governor Wilson did because of political pressures and other pressures: Embark on a program--maybe it is class size or maybe something else--that results in poor policy, poor results, and poor education for children. 
   Why do we assume, as the Republicans do, that it is all right to put those forces in train, in motion, by giving them money without accountability? I suspect what we have to do, and what we should do, is concentrate on those areas where we know we make a difference--particularly supporting disadvantaged children--and also supporting those efforts that have a basis in research and a basis in common sense: Lowering class size, improving the quality of professional development in teaching in America so you do not have the situation that they had in California. Smaller class size, perhaps, but poor teaching. 
   If we support the Democratic approach, we would help have both, smaller class size and better teachers, which I believe will result in better education. 
   I commend Senator MURRAY for her efforts. I hope in the course of this debate we can support the approach for professional development that Senator KENNEDY and I are promoting and in such a way make a real contribution to educational policy in the United States. 
   I yield back to Senator MURRAY such time as I have not consumed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, it is with great honor that I rise today to acknowledge a truly distinguished Rhode Islander, Edward J. Liston, who after having diligently served for 22 years will be retiring as the President of the Community College of Rhode Island on May 7th, 2000. President Liston currently resides in the town of Warwick, Rhode Island, with his wife Judith, where he is a proud father to six wonderful children: Christina, Edward, Jennifer, Judith, Mark, and Nancy. 
   Throughout his tenure as President, Edward Liston worked hard to provide both educational and job training opportunities for Rhode Islanders of all walks of life. Upon his arrival on campus in 1978, to more accurately reflect his mission for the institution, President Liston immediately set out to change the name of what was then known as the Junior College of Rhode Island, to its present name of the Community College of Rhode Island (CCRI). In order to further expand CCRI's programs into the community, President Liston established a system of satellite campuses in various local high schools that would offer evening courses in such towns as Woonsocket, Westerly, and Middletown. In addition, he successfully made inroads to provide educational courses at the Adult Correctional Institution in Cranston. 
   President Liston strongly believes that CCRI should have a presence in Rhode Island's inner city communities. In 1990, he opened a downtown Providence Campus which started with a total enrollment of 650 students. Today, over 2,000 students are taking classes at that campus, and plans are underway for an expansion funded by a 1998 bond issue. To acknowledge this achievement, the state has renamed the Providence campus the Edward J. Liston Campus. 
   Immediately after opening the Providence campus, President Liston worked to make CCRI the first higher education institution in Rhode Island to offer television courses through the public broadcasting system on Channel 36. To no surprise, this initiative also flourished, and has led to an increase in viewer enrollment from 100 students, to 1,200 students per semester. In 1989, PBS ranked CCRI the number one school in the country for deliverance of telecourses. Still pushing forward, President Liston then worked to establish a series of partnerships with business and industry leaders to improve the Rhode Island workforce through customized training designed for a particular company. One of the first partnerships was with General Dynamics' Electric Boat Division. This initiative involved a combination of on the job apprenticeship training, and classroom instruction that resulted in an associate degree. This first step led to the creation of the Center for Business and Industrial Training, now a part of the college's Office of Workforce Development. This center was also directly responsible for the creation of the successful Dental Hygiene program at the college, due to its partnership with the Rhode Island Dental Association.  
   On behalf of all Rhode Islanders, I would like to take this opportunity to personally extend my deepest thanks and gratitude to Edward Liston for his continued hard work and dedication over the years to improving the lives of so many Rhode Islanders and their families.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I come, first, to say how I am strongly in support of the Democratic alternative. It does represent what is the appropriate response by the Federal Government to educational policy in the United States; that is, to find specific ways in which we can help local schools and State systems improve education, with a particular concentration on low-income students. That has been the emphasis in Federal education policy since 1965. It is an emphasis that is being severely diluted by the Republican proposal. 
   In this substitute, there are provisions for strong parental involvement. In contrast, the Republican bill says very little about parental involvement and again leaves it to the States. It provides funds for specific programs that used to be part and parcel of Federal education policy, such as funds for libraries. But because of the inclusion of block grants, we have seen those funds withered away. As a result, our library selections in schools are abysmal and anachronistic. It also provides real accountability for results. 
   This is another issue that I think distinguishes our proposal from the Republican proposal. There is talk about accountability in the Republican proposal but no real accountability. It states that the Governors get to select the standards they want to use to measure their progress. It is only after 3 or 4 or 5 years that there is any real examination of what is going on. 
   At the end of that time, the idea that a Secretary of Education--any Secretary of Education--would take away all the funds or a significant number of funds from a State is, to me, somewhat attenuated. But, in addition, because the criteria for such Secretarial action is so vague and amorphous, there would be very little legal justification to do something such as that. 
   In effect, the accountability provisions are really not accountability provisions. In the last reauthorization in 1994, and in Goals 2000 of that same year, I fought for very tough accountability standards--accountability not only for the student performance but also for the resources going into schools. We fought back and forth, and the opposition, particularly of the Republicans, was vehement. We managed through compromise to come up with provisions that were included in the legislation. But in 1995, with the advent of the Republican Congress, those tough accountability provisions were quickly stricken from the legislative record. As a result, this accountability issue suggests, with respect to the Republican proposals, that it is more superficial than substantive. 
   We, alternatively, also have provisions to help professional development because we recognize that this is not only a local problem; this is a national problem, and we want to help States and localities. They are the key guardians of access to the classrooms and teachers. We want to help them improve professional development. 
   We have language with respect to safe schools and afterschool programs that are targeted to specific programs that are going to aid the overall mission of States and localities. 
   The proposals that are emanating from the Republican side 
   move away from the core principle of involving the Federal Government in the first place in elementary and secondary education, and to help disadvantaged children who were systematically and consciously neglected by States and localities. That was the record up to 1965. They moved away from that. Now the approach is that we want to give the States the money to do that without respect, really, to an emphasis on education, and we want to give the States this money because the school systems of America are failing. 
   Frankly, if the school systems of America are failing, if that is the premise of the legislation, you have to ask yourself who is in charge of this failing school system? Frankly, it is the Governors, the mayors, and the schools throughout this country. The Federal Government contributes about 7 percent of resources; 93 percent of the resources are provided by States and localities. 
   One of the most decisive factors of educational policy in the United States has nothing to do with Washington. It is reliance on the property taxes, exclusively a local idea. It is exclusively a local initiative. Teachers who go into the classroom are not certified by any Federal agency. They are certified by States and localities. School construction is controlled by States and localities. These are decisive factors that influence policy in the country. If you presume that we are here today changing our system because education is failing, why in God's name are you simply going to give the money without conditions to the people who are presiding over this? 
   I don't think we are speaking about educational failure. We are speaking about some limited progress over the last several years as a result of some Federal initiatives. But, frankly, because of lots of local initiatives, because there is a partnership now between States, localities, and the Federal Government with respect to many programs of innovation, starting with Goals 2000 and embedded in the 1994 reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--in fact, searching for a metaphor to try to capture what I think the other side is suggesting, it seems to me, if you were a police officer proceeding on a highway and you saw an automobile careening out of control, recklessly driven, violating the rules, failing to abide by the standards we expect for driving, and you pulled that car over, went up, looked in, and saw a driver and someone in the backseat, then you turned to the backseat driver, and said, you caused of all of this, that is essentially what the Federal Government has been doing in some respects.  
   Yes, we are part of this voyage, if you will, of educational policy. But with 7 percent of the effort, with a limited role, we are, at best, backseat drivers. No one would suggest that the reason the car is failing to operate properly is because of who is in the backseat. It is who is doing the driving; that is, the States and localities. 
   Our approach is to recognize that they are, in fact, in control; that we can collaborate with them; that we can, in fact, provide resources in areas where they either don't do it or do it insufficiently. 
   That is the heart of what we are talking about today--to build on the very real progress we have made over the last several years but recognizing that this progress is insufficient. 
   I urge that we get back to the business of proper Federal educational policy, supporting innovation where it works, overcoming inertia where it hobbles education reform, specifically targeted ways in which we can help localities improve the quality of education for all of our systems with a particular emphasis on disadvantaged American students who need more than what they get without the Federal support. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Reserving the right to object, in arranging the speaking order, is it possible to request to be recognized under the unanimous consent request? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Madam President, I believe, pursuant to unanimous consent, I am to be recognized now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   This is a very important debate about the course of educational policy in the United States. It is important in many dimensions. 
   Typically, when we bring a bill to the floor on the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, much of our discussion is about the mechanics of the legislation. But this debate opens up broad philosophical topics which we are confronting in the bill that is before us and the alternative which Democratic Senators will offer. 
   There are basically two philosophies at play. The philosophy I bring, and that I share with many of my colleagues on the Democratic side, is that there is a very specific role for the Federal Government in education policy. First, we recognize the primacy of State and local authorities in the U.S. Historically, culturally, indeed, constitutionally, State and local authorities govern educational policy. There is a role, though, for the Federal Government. It is a role we have played robustly since 1965; that is, to encourage innovation at the local level while at the same time trying to overcome local inertia so that together with this innovation, which comes from below, and with support so we can overcome obstacles at the local and State level, we can improve the education of our children and their academic performance. 
   All of this leads to an approach which suggests that our role is limited and targeted, particularly with respect to low-income students, who historically have been denied the kinds of opportunities many other American children take for granted. Also, we have a role to reflect national priorities in educational policy, priorities that transcend local feelings, regional approaches, and truly create a national political and policy environment for education improvement. That policy has been established in Federal law since 1965. 
   Today, we are confronting another philosophy. That philosophy, stripped down to its core, is essentially revenue sharing. My colleague from Connecticut suggested as much in his remarks immediately preceding mine. That approach is to say simply that we have some money and let's turn it over to the States. Underlying that approach is the presumption that, of course, the States know what is best. But one of the ironies, again alluded to by my colleague from Connecticut, is that if you are justifying this change in philosophy and change of legislation by the fact that American education policy is failing, what sense does it make to give vast resources without conditions to those individuals and institutions which control this failing educational policy? The institutions  that control educational policy are the States and localities. We contribute, from the Federal level, about 7 percent of resources. It is very limited and very targeted. Ninety-three percent of the resources are governed by State and local law. 
   So if American education is failing, who is responsible for this failure? And if the States and localities are responsible, why are we about to embark on a legislative policy which would simply turn over the money to them without any real check on how it is spent? 
   It is States and localities that determine how they raise funds. Through history, they have been wedded to the property tax. In fact, the property tax might be the most decisive reason why some school systems succeed and some fail miserably. But that is a local initiative, local policy, and local law. We wouldn't presume to change that. Yet that has a decisive effect on American educational policy. 
   Who certifies teachers? It is the States, not the Federal Government. If you are concerned about the quality of teachers in the classroom, don't come here and blame us for requiring poor teachers to be in a classroom. Don't come here and blame us for 
   requiring shoddy school buildings. There is no Federal law that requires that. It is a combination of State policy and revenue measures that provide inadequate resources for many school districts. 
   All of these things are under the gambit of State and local control. What we have tried to do for more than three decades now is to find points of leverage in the system where Federal resources and Federal policies can make a difference to help spur innovation and to help overcome the inertia we all see at the local level. 
   This philosophical debate will rage for the next several days on this floor. It is an important debate. Again, I believe the policy we have developed over several decades makes sense, given the realities of educational policy in the United States. It recognizes the key role of States, but it is not an exclusive role. It recognizes that the Federal Government, in limited, targeted ways, can help improve educational quality in the United States. 
   One of the key issues--indeed, it might be the fulcrum upon which this whole debate turns--is accountability. All of those who propose that we turn over resources will argue: But we are requiring more accountability. I think this argument in some respects misperceives the accountability that has already been built into Federal education legislation and assumes the States and localities will act in all cases wisely and well, when in fact history suggests that under the pressure of local budgets, under the demands of local political forces, they can be as irrational sometimes as any policy dictate from Washington. 
   Over the last several decades, we have endeavored to improve the accountability of States and localities through principally the title I program, accountability based on student performance. Back in 1988, amendments to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act for the first time got away from the simple accountability for finance which ruled title I programs before and started looking at consequences for student performance, tried to begin to develop the notion of standards-based education and of holding States accountable for their title I students and the use of Federal dollars. 
   In 1988, for the first time, we started talking seriously about student outcomes and requiring evaluation of outcomes and improvement in student achievement in the context of the title I program. The first attempts back then were quite modest. The States were left to set the standards, and the standards were often set too low. There was no real enforcement of failure to conform to these standards. 
   Also, in 1988, and years subsequent to that, title I funds went to schools determined on the basis of low student achievement, not based on student poverty levels. As a result, there was this perverse incentive essentially to give more money to schools that were failing rather than to look at another dimension to measure how we could allocate funds. The amendments in 1988 set the stage for action that took place in 1994. That was the Goals 2000 legislation with which, as a Member of the other body, I was deeply involved. 
   And here we began to build on a bipartisan effort, which was begun by President Bush in the context of his educational summit, to develop goals for education in the United States as we approached the new century. The Goals 2000 legislation tried to build on those goals. 
   One of the key elements was to try to, once again, enhance the accountability for the Federal dollars going to the States and the overall performance of the States. Part of the sensitivity to accountability and to what was going on in the States was a result of books such as Jonathan Kozol's book, ``Savage Inequalities,'' which painted a very bleak picture of programs, particularly urban education programs, and the distinct disadvantage that low-income students, despite title I funding and State efforts, were still suffering in the 1980s. 
   Also, at that time, there was a range of court cases. The most notable was in Kentucky, where the whole school finance system was challenged as being inequitable and inefficient. In fact, Kentucky's supreme court declared the financing in Kentucky schools to be not supportable and unequal and something that had to be changed. As a result, Kentucky took the lead in developing an equalized financing program and comprehensive reform, and other States acted at the same time, such as Massachusetts, Arkansas, and Tennessee. So this effort was ongoing throughout the country. 
   In the context of Goals 2000, there was an attempt to develop performance standards and the opportunity to learn standards, where for the first time we were talking about the resources necessary for schools and, most important, for children, to succeed. This was based upon the commonsense notion that a child who has a teacher who is unqualified and teaching out of their subject area, a child in a program where there is inadequate facilities, a child that is not able to participate fully in activities and advance in classes that are common, indeed routine, in the suburbs, that child is not going to be able to succeed as well as other children. We pushed very hard to simply require the States to answer a fundamental question: After you have identified a school that is failing, based on these outcome standards, what will you do? 
   Frankly, my amendment, which was focused on this effort, caused intense opposition because when you come down to the crunch, and try to ensure schools are performing, there is innate opposition from States and localities--they recognize tough actions will be required on their part, and there is a natural tendency to resist those types of tough decisions. In fact, not only did my Republican colleagues in the other body object, the White House also objected to the scope of the accountability that I envisioned. We moved forward with a concept at least. It was moderated a bit in the final legislation. It required that within the plan for applying for Goals 2000 funding, the States would indicate in a modest way what they proposed to do with respect to schools that were failing and systems that were failing. 
   Despite all of this discussion about accountability, Goals 2000 does represent progress on voluntary standards and also an enhanced sensitivity to the notion of making sure that programs work and are accountable. Since its passage in 1994, over $2 billion has been dispensed. Every State has participated, in a way. It has been useful in helping to stimulate reform, to raise standards, and to try to develop evaluations and assessments so we can know where we are in education policy and improve education throughout the United States. That is an example, in many respects, of how we can use Federal legislation to help move forward the education agenda. I think it is a very powerful example. 
   Contemporaneously with Goals 2000, in 1994, we reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which we are beginning to discuss again this week in the Senate. In 1994, we focused on ways in which we could enhance the effectiveness of title I. We 
   made progress in streamlining the approach to title I, eliminating what we thought were unnecessary regulatory burdens on school systems, but at the same time focusing on high-quality standards and the notion that every child can learn, and that title I is not simply a program to placate students, teachers, and parents; it is a program to give them a real chance to succeed--  and the development of assessments that would measure the progress of students. 
   We tried to target the resources more closely to low-income schools and school systems because one of the criticisms of title I is that everyone seemed to get a little piece. When the authorization came to the floor, it was everybody trying to fight to make sure their system--be it a poor or a suburban, middle income school system, or even a rich, exclusive school system--got their little piece of the action. 
   We did target, much more appropriately, the title I program. Also, again, we thought about corrective action, how to move this system forward, how to identify schools that are failing, and how to make those schools appropriately competent to teach children. 
   I offered an amendment to allow States to take corrective action against any district identified as needing improvement and require such action during the fourth year following the identification. My amendment also gave a list of remedies the States could use. This amendment was incorporated in the final version of the act. In fact, it is this legislation that, for the first time, has allowed us to identify schools that are not succeeding based on State standards. Back in 1996 and 1997, it was estimated that there are 1,500 LEAs and about 7,000 schools that are not succeeding based upon their State standards. The States have the authority--and, in fact, under title I, they have the obligation--to take corrective action. 
   I believe all of this is an appropriate introduction to suggest that we are, in fact, dealing with many of the issues that are prompting the debate we have today--this notion that we are not paying attention to accountability, this notion that schools in America are failing. In fact, I suggest that because of the steps we took, starting with Goals 2000 and the last authorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we are beginning to see progress. As Senator DODD indicated in his remarks, if you look at the statistics, we are seeing increased performance in student mathematics achievements, as measured by the National Assessment of Educational Progress, showing that all three age groups--4th grade, 8th grade, and 12th grade--have shown progress. 
   Indeed, black and Hispanic students have made significant gains, and since 1982, racial and ethnic difference in achievement have narrowed. Science achievement has also improved. We are also seeing increased numbers of students taking high-level courses, such as algebra II, trigonometry, chemistry, and physics. That is good because this level of effort is so important to our educational progress. The selection of tougher, more demanding courses, once again, cross racial lines, so that we are seeing all of our students take more challenging courses. So in one sense, what we are doing is working. 
   But in addition to this progress, last year we went further and adopted the Education Flexibility Partnership Act because we were listening to the complaints and comments of those who said: Listen, we have to unburden even further these Federal education programs. 
   Ed-Flex, however, has not exactly been overwhelmingly embraced in the country. There was an article in the Washington Post a few weeks ago and, by coincidence, the commissioner of education of Rhode Island, Peter McWalters, stated, ``I can get the flexibility I want under the current opportunities.'' That was his reason why he was not interested particularly in the Ed-Flex approach. It exists nevertheless. So those who claim the reason we must essentially create block grants for the States is because they don't have flexibility are ignoring the fact that we did, indeed, pass the Ed-Flex legislation. 
   Also, as indicated by the Center on Education Policy and the Institute for Educational Leadership, most State and district school administrators fail to understand the inherent flexibility that already exists under Federal law. They see it as barriers to change when, in fact, there are no real barriers. For example, the Department of Education reported that of the 617 waiver requests processed by the fall of 1998, over one-third weren't necessary because the local schools already had the authority under Federal law. 
   One of the other factors in this issue of flexibility and appropriateness of Federal legislation policy is the irony that many States' rules are more restrictive than the Federal Government's rules. One-third of the States do not allow districts to consolidate administrative funds, even though Federal law allows them to do so. Federal law allows students to operate title I school programs to combine funds for many Federal education programs. However, some States require schools to account for all programs separately. 
   A lot of the purported burden of Federal rules is really a consequence of State rules, which in some cases are not as flexible. 
   All of this suggests very strongly, at least in my mind, that we have embarked on policies which are beginning to show some promise and which have already instilled significant accountability devices within the law that are targeted to national purposes and compensate for policies and programs at the State level which historically did not reach low-income children particularly and others who are typically without a voice in many local communities. 
   But having said that, we approach this reauthorization with a common commitment and a common understanding that we have to do much more. If you look within the United States, we have made some progress. But if you look around the world, we are still not at the level we need to be. If you look at international assessments, our 12th graders score below the international average in math and science, and achievement gaps still remain between minority and nonminority students. We have closed the absolute difference. But those gaps still exist. 
   In 1998, for example, 32 percent of students in the highest poverty schools met or exceeded the National Assessment of Educational Progress basic level in reading. But that is only half the rate nationally of students in public schools. Dropout rates are much higher than the African American and Hispanic community than the overall level. We know we have to do more. 
   We also know that as a result of local policies, 30 percent of all math teachers are teaching outside the field of their academic preparation, and that percentages are higher in other academic areas, as well as in high-poverty schools. 
   Once again, let me emphasize that this is not a result of Federal policies. That is the result of local hiring practices. That is the result of local certification processes. That is the result of decisions made not in Washington but in State capitals and cities throughout this country. Yet we have a national obligation and opportunity to try to assist the States to change the disturbing statistics. 
   We also want to insist again that we have appropriate outcome-based standards for measuring performance of young people and making sure as best we can that the States are meeting these obligations. We should do that. 
   The approach this legislation before us takes is an approach that essentially is moving away from all of this and saying simply let's create block grants, turn them over to the States, and let the States operate as they have in the past and as they will do without these specific Federal conditions and guidelines. 
   There are two variations within the legislation. There is the 50-State Straight A's. Then there is the 15-State Straight A's pilot program, if you will, sponsored principally by Senator GREGG of New Hampshire. But all of these approaches lack the quality and the emphasis that I believe is necessary to continue the progress we have made to date and to continue our appropriate robust Federal role in education policy. 
   According to Amy Wilkins, who is with the Education Trust, an organization that promotes higher achievement for poor and minority students, I quote:  
   The accountability provisions in Straight A's are meaningless window-dressing. The goals are too low, the time lines are too long, and the sanctions too inconsequential.  
   In fact, Straight A's might take us way back before Goals 2000, and the last reauthorization where we, as I suggested in my remarks, took very strong steps with respect to accountability. In fact, some of us would have  taken even further steps to improve accountability for Federal dollars going to States to assist States overall in improving their educational processes. 
   We have seen since 1988 attempts to increase accountability. In fact, if you go back before 1988, it might reveal how States would react to this new freedom that perhaps they may receive under this bill, an even more chilling scenario. 
   My colleague from Massachusetts, Senator KENNEDY, pointed out earlier in the day some of the excesses we found when essentially the title I program was a block grant with very few constraints. Money was being used to build pools. Money was being used to buy band uniforms. Money was being used for anything that the ingenuity and imagination of a good school administrator could think of, given perhaps the fact that the local community wouldn't fund it. But here is this Federal pot of money, and I am ingenious enough to use it anywhere I can. 
   We might be headed in that direction once again, although history has moved on a bit. The pressures at the local level are still there. The budget pressures for school, the pressures to do things, and the limited money to do them are still there in every school system. 
   The Straight A's program and the Straight A's scheme as proposed by Senator GREGG would block grant funding to the States. We know in a general way that block grants usually end up with a lack of accountability and with a diffusion of purposes. We have seen this in the maternal and child health care block grants. That has been documented by outside observers, such as the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
   My fear is essentially that we will head in the same direction with education funding. 
   First I want to make comments about the 50-State Straight A's. 
   It eliminates the targeting of funds to the truly most needy children in our country--migrant children, children of immigrants, and homeless students. Programs for these children are rolled into the larger block grant. 
   It also would allow the States to proceed with an experiment for 3 years after which the Secretary of Education could terminate an agreement if there is a determination that student achievement has ``significantly declined.'' Once again, what they mean by ``achievement'' is if the States are deficient. I expect, given history as a benchmark, that States are not going to challenge themselves too much, that their achievement is going to be modest at best, and it is going to be awfully difficult to determine what ``significantly declined'' means in fact. 
   If the Secretary makes this determination, he has to wait at least 2 more years before he or she can come in and put leverage on the States to improve significantly. 
   In the meantime, you have a 5-year cohort of young people who are moving in a system that might be headed precisely in the wrong way, and there is very little we can do to change direction. 
   The other aspect of the 50-State approach of Straight A's is that the State offers to participate in this block grant. The accountability provisions, which as I indicated before are rather insignificant, really apply only at the State level. A State could demonstrate improvement according to their own definition. But they could do so by simply aggregating the statistics statewide. 
   Once again, you have laws that focus on children who have always been a part of our efforts at the Federal level--low-income children who are historically disadvantaged. The goal of the States is performance goals. Very limited local, let alone Federal, participation is provided for in creating these goals. 
   In some respect, it might be the fact that the authors and proponents recognize that local communities might be struggling with reform, and we have to put it someplace. They have chosen the State level. 
   But that undercuts the argument we all make on this floor that local control is paramount because the way this legislation is structured, the States would be a decisive force in determining the goals and determining the proper use to achieve those goals. 
   There is language, of course, to close the achievement gaps. But there is no real requirement that these gaps be closed. We could conceive of progress being made even though we still have significant disparities between racial and ethnic groups. Parents are not incorporated in the process as they should, in my view; that is, in the Straight A's, 50-State process. If you move to the 15-State version, that is even more objectionable from the standpoint of targeting, from the standpoint of accountability, and from the standpoint of having an appropriate Federal-State collaboration on issues that are important to us in terms of educational policy. 
   In fact, targeting of federal funds to schools with the neediest students would no longer be required. It is also a 5-year program, with very little control in the States for 5 years. States get to do their thing for 5 years. 
   After 5 years, there is no real penalty, if the States are not doing well. The only time the Secretary could step in is if there were a lack of substantial progress. Once again, the States are defining what ``progress'' is, and I am sure they will not raise the bar too high. That has been my experience. And I think States keep the bar low because that helps them assure, as best they can, they will be successful. 
   It would also not require that all students in the State be incorporated in the assessment. ``All students,'' as defined in the 15-State version, simply means all students attending public or charter schools that are participating in the State's assessment system. The State could say, we are not assessing these children, and in effect exclude a number of children from the assessment and, consequently, from their evaluation of overall performance. 
   Then the money could be used for ``any elementary and secondary educational purposes permitted by State law,'' which could be vouchers and other programs which would undermine seriously not only Federal education policy but public education in general. 
   There is a different approach to these two block grant proposals, an approach that will be involved in the Democratic alternative. The key element of that is the accountability provision Senator BINGAMAN is introducing and I am cosponsoring. It builds on the record of accountability I talked about before. It maintains current targeting toward disadvantaged students and requires a single system of accountability so you don't get into the fight between title I students and other students. It specifies goals in terms of disaggregated populations, and it requires the States to set specific numerical goals. 
   So we are not talking about substantial progress or significant progress. We are talking about picking a goal, working towards it, and having a more objective measure of whether or not you are going to make that objective. 
   It also requires the identification of those populations of students who are not part of the State assessment so they cannot game the system as under the 15-State Straight A's proposal. 
   It establishes significant consequences if the States fail to respond. It requires States and districts to undertake corrective action in those situations where the schools or the school systems are not performing. It informs parents by having report cards for parents, so they know what is happening. They know if their school or school system is under a corrective action. 
   In effect, it does what I think we all want to do. It provides not only the context but the consequences so that States will begin to improve or build on the improvements taking place in education throughout this country. We will begin to see not just progress domestically but in those statistics internationally, which is at the heart of so much of what we have talked about over a decade or more. 
   We have a lot to do to ensure our education policy is moving forward. I believe very strongly that the approach adopted in the bill before the Senate, the two block grants, will not do that. I think it walks away from our commitment, particularly our commitment to low-income students. 
   We know from statistics that seven times the resources of the Federal programs go to low-income students than State programs. We also know as we turn money over to the States, fully a third of the States are embroiled in debates about how they spend the money themselves.  
   In my home State of Rhode Island, the State is being sued by suburban communities who claim they are disadvantaged, that they don't get enough State money, while at the same time, of course, in the urban centers such as Providence and Pawtucket, there are 40 languages in the school system and they have tremendous problems with new Americans coming into the school system. They need more and more resources for more programs to deal with populations that 
   didn't even exist in my State 10 years ago. This clash goes on and on. 
   It suggests to me that the States have real problems themselves deciding how to allocate resources. Citizens of many States are complaining bitterly about how it is done. Yet in Straight A's and the 15-State variation of Straight A's, we propose simply to turn over the keys to the State and say: Do what you will. 
   I don't think that makes for good policy. 
   We also know if you look at block grant funding, it historically declines. In 1981, we created block grants from some education programs, and a few years later those programs declined significantly by 12 percent. That is an example of what happens when we put things in a block grant. The support for the programs dissipates over time. We will find ourselves, particularly if we encounter a difficult budget year at the Federal level, where this block grants approach does not yield the kind of resources upon which States have come to rely. 
   We have a lot to do to ensure our education money is spent well, spent wisely. I think we have taken appropriate action over the last decade to ensure accountability--not just for financial resources but also for outcomes, for student progress. We have to continue that. We certainly don't want to go back to the days when school systems, particularly in the late 1960s, were spending this money willy-nilly because there was no accountability. We have examples replete from programs I mentioned before. 
   In the late 1960s in Claiborne Parish, LA, they were building outdoor swimming pools. In Benton County, MS, title I funded a 6-week course in homemaking for 11th- and 12th-grade black girls at the old Salem School, an all-black school. The homemaking course was conducted in private homes 3 days a week for 4 hours each day. At the same time, at the white high school, they were providing a summer school program in English. A report done at the time suggested the young black women were essentially being trained to be domestics, while the title I white children were being trained how to read. 
   That might be a relic of history which in the new century is a quaint anachronism, but it shows in particular places with particular pressures, unconditional block grants could lead to results of which we would not be particularly supportive. I think we can do better than that. 
   I do not suggest this was a phenomenon in one region of the country. In Massachusetts, in the same report, although they had a significant minority population in the Boston public schools, they were turning money back because they could not use this title I money. That suggests to me, if they didn't want to use it, they didn't want to engage in a serious way to improve every student's output. 
   We have before the Senate an opportunity not to avert our attention and our efforts from school improvement, not to walk away from public education, but rather to engage in a serious debate of how we can improve existing Federal programs, how we can infuse these programs with more purpose, how we can go ahead and prevent local pressures and local priorities from overcoming what should be a national priority--improving the education of every child in this country. 
   I look forward to this debate as it ensues. I look forward to ensuring we have a vigorous debate on our policy. In the course of this debate, we will offer amendments to try to improve the legislation. I hope we will enter this debate recognizing what we have done over the last decade, the fact that progress is being made, the fact that this progress is insufficient, which should cause us not to abandon our approach but to strengthen, reform, and improve it. 
   I ask unanimous consent to recognize Senator MURRAY after Senator BUNNING gives his statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that under the time reserved for Senator DURBIN I may speak for such time as I may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, for the last several days, we have been debating a victims' rights amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and that is an interesting and thoughtful debate. But I think we can do something else, which is try to prevent victims in the first place. We can do that by passing the juvenile justice bill, which contains sensible controls on handguns in this society. 
   A few days ago we saw another incident involving a handgun at the National Zoo, a place we have recognized for decades as a source of solace and education and recreation in the Nation's Capital. But, in a moment, it was turned into a place of violence and terror because a young man, apparently with a handgun, shot several young people. 
   The tragedy in this country is that each year 30,000 Americans die by gunfire. Every day, 12 children are killed by gunfire. We can stop that and we must stop that. 
   The most recent incident is another indication that we have to act not someday but immediately. These seven children have been harmed and their families have been forever changed. This is a tragedy that they will live with, but it is a tragedy that we don't have to live with as a nation indefinitely. 
   We took several appropriate and responsible steps after the Columbine shooting last year in which we passed legislation that would close the gun show loophole, require safety locks on handguns to prevent their use by children, and other measures. Yet these measures languish today in a conference committee that has met only once since last year, which is not seriously attempting to address the critical issues of violence in this country. 
   Each day we wait, another incident takes place. Again, last year on the floor of the Senate as we debated the juvenile justice bill, if any of us had stood up and said a 6-year-old child would walk into first grade in America and shoot another 6 year old, some would have said it was hysterical demagoging. 
   That happened. If anybody said that on a Sunday or a weekday afternoon at the National Zoo random gunfire would break out and seven children would be shot down, we would be accused of hysterical demagoguery. It happened. 
   We can prevent this, and we should, by acting promptly to pass the juvenile justice bill with those provisions included. Many in the Congress call for stricter enforcement of handgun laws. I agree with that. We should enforce the laws. But the reality is that we have to prevent these incidents rather than, after the fact, arresting people. 
   It is against the law in the District of Columbia to possess a handgun, as it was possessed, apparently, by this young man. But the District of Columbia is not an island. It is a metropolitan area between other States that have much less strict gun control laws. Virginia, for example, is a State which is a shell-issue State. That means that practically any person who is not a felon can carry a concealed weapon with a 
   license and without showing a special need to do so. 
   Private sales of handguns, including gun show sales, are common throughout Virginia, and there you can in fact buy a weapon without a background check if you are buying from an unlicensed gun dealer. There is no waiting period in Virginia to buy a handgun. Now there is a law that prevents the purchase of more than one handgun a month, and that is good because it prevents trafficking in firearms. But it  only takes one gun to do the kind of damage we saw a few days ago at the National Zoo. 
   We all agree that enforcement is important. We look forward to and applaud the local authorities who apprehended the young suspect. He will be tried and the law will be imposed and enforced. But, once again, prevention perhaps could have prevented this violence or other violence throughout the United States. 
   On this 1-year anniversary of Columbine, we should be doing something more than simply sitting and waiting for that conference report. We should be demanding, as we have in the past on this floor, that conferees meet, vote, and send us back this measure, including all those strict gun control provisions. This Senate went on record by a vote of 53-47 to take that very position. I hope that vote will energize and activate the conferees and that they will move immediately to send this provision to the President for signature. 
   Within that bill, there are resources for the types of prevention and enforcement that we need with respect to juveniles. Twenty-five percent of the $250 million distributed annually on the juvenile accountability block grant program would be dedicated to prevention to the gun lobby. In addition, the conference report would include, I hope, child safety locks, an amendment to firmly close the gun show loophole, a ban on the importation of high-capacity ammunition clips, and a ban on the sale of semiautomatic weapons. It is time now to prevent, if we can, the violence that we have witnessed and, sadly, the violence that happens every day. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to join with Armenians throughout the United States, in Armenia, and around the world in commemorating the 85th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. 
   On the night of April 24, 1915 in Constantinople, nationalist forces of the Ottoman Empire rounded up more than 200 Armenian religious, political, and intellectual leaders and murdered them in a remote countryside location. This atrocity began an eight year campaign of tyranny that would affect the lives of every Armenian in Asia Minor. 
   Armenian men, women, and children of all ages fell victim to murder, rape, torture, and starvation. By 1923, an estimated 1.5 million Armenians had been systematically murdered and another 500,000 were exiled. With the world community consumed in the events of World War I and the subsequent period of recovery, the plight of the Armenian people went unanswered. 
   Today, this tragic episode in history serves to unite the Armenian people as they struggle to build an independent nation committed to democracy and peace in the Caucasus region. Despite the unresolved conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, the ongoing blockade by Turkey and the violent attack on the Armenian Parliament last October, Armenians continue to build on these principles. It is this indomitable spirit that has kept the hope of Armenians alive through centuries of persecution. 
   The madness and cruelty which led to the tragic events of the Armenian genocide are not forgotten. Last year, when hundreds fled their homes in Kosovo, fearing for their lives, America and its NATO allies reacted quickly and decisively. We, as a nation, must continue to respond to such acts of oppression so that the deaths of all victims of hatred and prejudice are not in vain. 
   Therefore, on the 85th anniversary of the terrible tragedy of the Armenian genocide we remember the past and rededicate ourselves to supporting Armenia as it looks to the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to salute a distinguished young man from Troop 66 in Garden City, Rhode Island who has attained the rank of Eagle Scout in the Boy Scouts of America. 
   Not every young American who joins the Boy Scouts earns the prestigious Eagle Scout Award. In fact, only 2.5 percent do. To earn the award, a Boy Scout must fulfill requirements in the areas of leadership, service, and outdoor skills. A scout must earn twenty-one Merit Badges, eleven of which are required from areas such as Citizenship in the Community, Citizenship in the Nation, Citizenship in the World, Safety, Environmental Science, and First Aid. 
   As one progresses through the Boy Scout ranks, a scout must demonstrate participation in increasingly more responsible service projects. An Eagle Scout candidate must also demonstrate leadership skills by holding one or more specific Troop leadership positions. Ernest Rheaume has distinguished himself in accordance with these criteria. 
   For his service project, Ernest organized a bicycle and child safety fair at Gladstone Street School in Cranston. 
   Mr. President, I ask you and my colleagues to join me in saluting Ernest Rheaume. In turn, we must duly recognize the Boy Scouts of America for establishing the Eagle Scout Award and the strenuous criteria its aspirants must see. This program has through its eighty-five years honed and enhanced the leadership skills and commitment to public service of many outstanding Americans. 
   It is my sincere belief that Ernest will continue his public service and in  so doing will further distinguish himself and consequently better his community.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I stand in opposition to this amendment. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy and a former officer in the Army, I view the American flag with a special reverence borne by experience. I am deeply offended when people burn or otherwise abuse this precious national symbol, and I believe that we should teach young people to respect the flag.  
   I also feel, however, that the values and beliefs that the American flag represents are more important than the cloth from which the symbol is made. Prominent among these beliefs are the right to voice views that are unpopular and the right to protest. It is these fundamental values, reflected in our Constitution, that have distinguished our Nation for more than 200 years. It is these beliefs that give our flag its great symbolic power. 
   Flag burning is despicable. However, the issue before us is whether our great charter document, the Constitution, should be amended so that the Federal Government can prosecute the handful of Americans who show contempt for the flag. To quote James Madison, is this a ``great and extraordinary occasion'' justifying the use of a constitutional amendment? 
   I would argue no, this is not such an occasion. This is an answer in search of a problem. According to Professor Robert Justin Goldstein, a noted author on this topic, there have been only 200 reported incidents of flag burning during the entire history of our country--that is less than one a year. There is no epidemic of flag burnings plaguing our nation. 
   Others have said that flag burning is representative of a general decay of American values and patriotism, and something needs to be done about it before it is too late. I would argue the way to encourage patriotism is through encouraging civic involvement, not constitutional amendments. It almost goes without saying that people who are proud of their country will be proud of their flag. 
   I am still moved by the statement made by James Warner, a decorated Marine flyer who was a prisoner of the North Vietnamese from 1967 to 1973, about flag burning:  
   I remember one interrogation where I was shown a photograph of some Americans protesting the war by burning a flag. ``There'' the officer said. ``People in your country protest against your cause. That proves that you are wrong.'' 
   ``No,'' I said, ``that proves that I am right. In my country we are not afraid of freedom, even if it means that people disagree with us.''  
   And I think that is the essence of this debate for me. We live in a democracy, not a dictatorship. The flag symbolizes a political system that allows its people, through their actions and words, to express what they think and feel, even when the government or a vast majority of others disagree with them. I oppose this amendment because I believe that while attempting to preserve the symbol of the freedoms we enjoy in this country, it actually would harm the substance of these freedoms. 
   Finally, this amendment to the Constitution is technically problematic. The language of the amendment is vague and fails to offer a clear statement of just what conduct the supporters of the amendment propose to prohibit, or to advise the American people of the actions for which they may be imprisoned. There is no definition of what a ``flag'' is for purposes of this amendment, or any consensus regarding the meaning of ``desecration.'' This leaves the Supreme Court to clarify these meanings, the same court that supporters believe erred in protecting flag burning as freedom of speech in the first place. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I request to be recognized out of my time under the unanimous consent agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, we are spending a few moments discussing the budget. There are obvious differences on both sides with respect to this budget. I commend the chairman, Senator DOMENICI, and the ranking member, Senator LAUTENBERG, for their efforts over many months to fashion a budget and bring it to us. 
   My focal point is not on the vote that is forthcoming; it is on the vote we just concluded with respect to adjournment. In many respects, I share the overall sentiments of the Senator from West Virginia that it is about time we get down to work and business, and if we need to take time to consider the marriage tax penalty and other provisions, we should do that, rather than arbitrarily and conveniently walking away. 
   The concern I have goes to another critical issue, and that is the issue of our inability over many months to bring to this floor a conference report on the juvenile justice bill which includes sensible gun safety measures we all adopted in the wake of the Columbine tragedy. 
   The first-year anniversary of that tragedy is just 7 days away, and we will not be in Washington working on this issue; we will be scattered around the country. I believe--and that is why I joined many of my colleagues voting against adjournment--that we should be here working rather than off about the country on April 20 saying, I am sure, thoughtful and pious comments about our outrage at what happened at Columbine High School and the need to do something. We should be here instead doing something, and our departure should be tempered with the realization that we have for months foregone effective action to provide sensible gun safety rules in this country. 
   We all were shocked last April 20 by the carnage and horror at Columbine High School. Within a month, in May, we passed extremely sensible provisions as part of the juvenile justice bill to provide for child safety locks, to close the gun show loophole, ban the importation of large-capacity ammunition clips for automatic weapons, and many other provisions. Yet all of our efforts have languished for months. In fact, the conference committee met just one time in August in a perfunctory meeting, and since that time, it has not even come together to consider these difficult issues and to seek a compromise resolution so we can send this measure to the President to become law. 
   We are leaving today with our work undone. I had hoped we could have stayed. I had hoped we could have worked harder and more efficiently so that we could, in fact, have a conference report with gun control measures that would be sent to the President for his signature. 
   The Columbine tragedy is just one aspect of a pervasive climate of gun violence in this country that claims 12 children a day. We have to take effective steps to prevent that tidal wave of gun violence. 
   I note the other body, responding to the pressure of public opinion and the sensible nature of the provisions we are talking about, moved last Tuesday to enact legislation that provides enhanced penalties, mandatory minimum sentences on any person who uses a gun while committing a crime of violence or is involved in serious drug trafficking offenses. 
   No one is going to argue about the need for strong enforcement and stiff  penalties, but enforcement without adequate, sensible, comprehensible laws misses the point. We have to do both. Indeed, we insist both be done. 
   My colleague, Senator DURBIN of Illinois, has been very 
   forceful in trying to, within the context of this budget, enhance the resources devoted to the enforcement of our gun laws. He has met opposition. That opposition, I believe, should fade. We can and must do both: Prevent gun violence by good, sound, commonsense laws, and enforce those laws so we further add to the prevention of violence in our community. 
   One other aspect of this enforcement issue is the simple fact that we cannot enforce loopholes. We have to have legislation that is sensible, practical, and works. We found, particularly in the case of the gun show legislation, that the current regime just does not work. Senator LAUTENBERG's amendment on the juvenile justice bill will effectively close that loophole and give our authorities credible and effective means to prevent easy access to firearms by those individuals who are prohibited, either through criminal records or a history of mental instability. 
   There are other aspects within the bill that are so clearly and obviously necessary and, indeed, noncontroversial. In poll after poll, 89 percent of Americans support child safety locks, support the notion that these safety locks should be sold with a weapon and, indeed, should be incorporated in the design of a new weapon. The State of Maryland last week, in a very courageous legislative act, passed legislation that will do just this. 
   The need is quite clear. For children under the age of 15, the rate of accidental gun deaths in America is nine times higher than the rate of 25 other industrial countries combined. Often, I believe, there is a misperception about the nature of gun violence in this country; that it is the result of hoodlums attacking innocent citizens, victimizing them with handguns, when, in fact, there is an extraordinary number of children who are killed accidentally. Here, certainly, is a situation where a child safety lock can and should make a difference. 
   There is another aspect of gun violence in America and, again, it is not the gangs with guns attacking innocent citizens. It is the fact that guns are frequently used in suicides. For young children under 15, suicide deaths from guns are 11 times higher than that of the other 25 industrial nations combined. In fact, 54 percent of all firearms-related deaths in 1996 were suicides. Once again, a child safety lock might have helped, might have deterred for a moment a child, or even an adult, who was so desperate, so distraught that they contemplated and sadly acted out a death wish. 
   These statistics alone warrant the legislation--in fact, demand the legislation. There is a wealth of research that suggests the likelihood of suicide among adolescents increases by the ease of access to firearms--suicide by firearms. 
   According to the National Journal, one study last year found that three-fourths of adolescents who use a gun to commit suicide obtain the gun from the family home. 
   The Injury Control Research Center at the Harvard School of Public Health found in a 1999 survey that 20 percent of gun owners stored their guns loaded and unlocked. This is a situation, again, that cries out for sensible control of weapons to prevent these tragic and unnecessary deaths. 
   There is a national survey--the largest ever conducted--on gun storage by the American Journal of Public Health which found that more than 22 million children in the United States live in homes with firearms; and in 43 percent of those homes, the guns are not locked up or fitted with trigger locks. 
   Simply by the adoption of a national requirement to have trigger locks on weapons, we cannot ensure that each and every gun will be locked up and secured. But certainly, we will have a much higher percentage of those weapons that are secured if we pass legislation of this kind. 
   If we require a safety lock to be provided when a gun is sold, if we give parents and adults who buy these weapons not only the incentive but the actual lock, we can, I hope and expect, reduce these types of deaths among children. 
   In fact, we probably should be doing more because there are many States that have child access prevention laws--or CAP laws as they are called--which encourage the safe storage of firearms by holding adults accountable if they knowingly keep a firearm within their home where a child might have access to it and that child, in fact, obtains the weapon and uses it to harm themselves or to harm others. Senator DURBIN has such a bill. I am proud to be a cosponsor of that legislation. This legislation is working. 
   A 1997 article published in the Journal of the American Medical Association analyzed the effect of CAP laws in 12 States. The JAMA study found that, on average, there was a 23-percent drop in accidental firearm-related deaths among children younger than 15 years old. 
   There has been an overall downward trend in unintentional shootings in the United States since 1979. That is encouraging. But indeed, we saw a much steeper decline in those States that had child access prevention laws. 
   But if we are not yet ready to consider a child access prevention law, the least we can do, the minimum we can do, is follow through on our vote of last May and ensure the conference committee sends to us quickly the child safety lock legislation that we passed. 
   There is another important part of the legislation that is pending in the conference committee, and that is the legislation that was sponsored and championed by Senator LAUTENBERG with respect to the gun show loophole. This particularly resonates at this moment when we are days away from the Columbine tragedy, because, in fact, three of the weapons used in the Columbine tragedy were bought at gun shows from unlicensed dealers who did not have to perform background checks. 
   The two killers, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris, along with an older woman friend, Robyn Anderson, went to a gun show and obtained these weapons. In fact, it is reported that both Harris and Klebold went from table to table, from booth to booth, trying to find an unlicensed dealer, knowing they would not be subjected to a background check. 
   In fact, Robyn Anderson herself testified before the Colorado Legislature that she would not have helped these young men if she knew she had to face a background check. 
   What more compelling evidence can we have of the need and 
   the effects of this legislation than the reality of the tragedy at Columbine High School? 
   There has been a lot of talk by the gun proponents that a 72-hour waiting period is involved in this amendment. It is not the case at all. There is not a waiting period. What it requires, though, is that the law enforcement authority would have 72 hours to fully conduct the background check. The gun lobby and their allies say that would completely undermine gun shows, which are weekend events, which start up on a Saturday and end perhaps in midafternoon the next day, Sunday. They say they could not do that. 
   In fact, not only could they do it in the vast majority of cases, but they should do it because we should have the same Brady law applying to all dealers at a gun show. 
   It turns out that the FBI indicates, in their statistics, that most gun purchases are processed extremely quickly. In fact, using the national instant check system, the FBI clears 72 percent of gun buyers within 30 seconds; another 23 percent are cleared within 2 hours. So 95 percent of the people who attempt to obtain guns are cleared within 2 hours. It is only that other 5 percent who might require an additional day or two. 
   But of that 5 percent, they are 20 times more likely to be prohibited from possessing a firearm. So the reality is that those people who argue for no background checks at gun shows or they have to be limited to 24 hours are simply protecting those who are most likely to be prohibited under the law from purchasing a firearm, a handgun. 
   In fact, the vast majority of gun purchasers, those law-abiding citizens, those individuals that the NRA points to as their sterling members, would not be impeded at all. They would be checked within 2 hours. 
   The other aspect of this, in terms of requiring additional time for law enforcement officers, is that if there is a problematic application for a purchase, if there is a suggestion or indication  that the individual is not qualified, then those law enforcement officers need the time to check out records, to go to a county courthouse or to go someplace else to get the records that would be virtually impossible if this was limited to 24 hours on a Saturday or a Sunday. 
   Frankly, they have to do it because there is a due process requirement. If you are going to turn down an individual from obtaining a firearm, that police officer has to have sufficient evidence, real evidence--not hearsay, not the feeling that something is wrong, not a thought that they heard about this individual someplace, in the coffee shop, that he is unreliable or might have been convicted of a crime--they have to have tangible evidence. Otherwise, they will be sued, probably by advocates and proponents of the gun lobby. So this is a real, practical and necessary need for enforcing the law. 
   But what we hear consistently from the gun lobby is lots of misinformation: It will close down gun shows. There is a waiting period. 
   All of this is wrong. The Lautenberg amendment is sound, practical, pragmatic legislation that will deal with the problem, that will not at all impede the vast majority of purchases of firearms at gun shows, and will contribute significantly to the elimination of, we hope, or at least a diminution of the gun violence we are seeing in the country today. 
   In the Senate last week, we had the opportunity to vote on a resolution I proposed that would urge the conferees to send a report back to us before April 20, including all of the provisions I have spoken about, that would, in fact, give us the chance to send this to the President for his signature. The vote on April 6 was 53-47, with a bipartisan majority. That vote has started some wheels turning. 
   On April 11, Mr. HYDE, chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the other body, and JOHN CONYERS, the ranking member, sent a letter to Senator HATCH saying:  
   We write to request a juvenile justice conference meeting as soon as possible. 
   We are making progress, but we are going to lose this momentum and this progress as we leave this week. Perhaps that is intentional. Perhaps this is about stopping the momentum that is building up, playing for time, hoping that we forget about Columbine, hoping that when the anniversary comes, we will be all around the country and the world and not here to respond to the concerns of families in this Nation who are deeply concerned about this issue. 
   I have spoken about the aspects of the legislation. I have spoken about the logic behind it, the statistics that strongly support it. Ultimately, this is about people's lives in America --sadly and too often, about children's lives. 
   On February 29, a 6-year-old, Kayla Rolland, was shot to death by her 6-year-old classmate in Mount Morris Township, MI. I have said this before and it bears repeating: If any of us last May stood on this floor and said a 6-year-old child would be shot to death with a handgun by another 6-year-old child in a school in America, we would have been accused and lambasted as a hysterical demagog who was trying to stir up unreasonable fears and concerns for political advantage. 
   The truth is, it has happened. A 6-year-old is dead, shot by another 6-year-old in a school in this country. That week, Kayla's death was just one of other deaths of children that go unheralded because 12 children die a day. For example, one young woman in Carroll County, MD, 18 years old, died of an accidental gunshot wound to the head after she and her friends were admiring her father's .22-caliber revolver. Where were her parents? They were in Costa Rica as missionaries. Had there been a law requiring a trigger lock, had the gun salesman been required to provide a trigger lock with this weapon, I have to believe parents such as that would have locked up the weapon. As those teenagers were admiring the weapon, it wouldn't have discharged. We might have been able to save a life if we had acted. Think of the lives that are being lost because we are not acting. 
   Another 16-year-old boy in Shopiere, WI, and his friend were horsing around with a .22-caliber pistol his mother kept for protection. It was usually stored in a dresser, but they got ahold of it. After posing with the gun for pictures, the boy pointed the gun to his head. It went off, killing him. As his grandmother said: It was kid's play, total kid's play. Ask yourself, had that weapon been secured with a child safety lock, would it have gone off as two young kids horsing around posed with it? Probably not. 
   Then a 15-year-old boy in San Bernardino, CA, found his stepfather's handgun, while his pregnant mother slept, and used to it shoot himself. Perhaps at the height of desperation, if he had seen a lock on that weapon, he might have been deterred for a moment, enough time perhaps to somehow come back off the edge rather than to plunge into the abyss and take his own life. 
   A 16-year-old girl in Altoona, PA, argued with her father about her curfew. He was a gun collector; he had handguns. She found one and killed herself--over a curfew. Perhaps, again, if there had been a child safety lock, some other protective device, that momentary pique, that momentary anger we have all had with our parents, would have resulted in perhaps an annoyance but not death. 
   That is just one week in America, the week Kayla Rolland died. But it is every week in America, 12 children a day. We can do more. We should do it, rather than leaving today and going off on our recess. That would be the greatest tribute to the 12 young people and the 1 teacher who died in Columbine High School. 
   I would like to say the conference committee has been working, but that is not accurate. They have been waiting for a year. We have been waiting for a year. We can do more. We should do more. We must do more. The American people want it. The American people expect it. The American people deserve it--certainly the families of those children who were killed at Columbine and the 12 children a day who are victims of gun violence in this country. 
   I realize we have lost that vote on adjournment. We will be back. We will come back again and again and again until we pass sensible gun safety legislation to make this country a bit safer and, hopefully, do what the American people sent us here to do: To protect their children and ensure a rule of law and not an error of violence that claims the lives of children each and every day. 
   I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from California from the time I control. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I conclude my remarks, regretfully noting we are leaving without passing the juvenile justice bill conference report, without adopting sensible gun control legislation, missing the opportunity, I think, to do what the American people want us to do. 
   I have long been a supporter of effective gun controls, working hard for the Brady bill and for the assault weapons ban while I was in the other body. But I have been galvanized to an even more concerted effort by an event that took place very recently in Providence. This, I think, is an example of the gun violence we face. 
   Two young men were horsing around wrestling. One got offended by the other one. Unfortunately, this happened in a neighborhood, like so many neighborhoods, where it is easier to get a gun than it is to get a library book. Someone in the crowd had a handgun. In an act of absolute recklessness, one young man fired at the other young man, critically wounding him in the head. That young man, the shooter, was so distraught that he rushed off and took his own life. That is the face of gun violence in too many places in America today. 
   We can do something about it. We should do something about it. We should not leave until we do something about it. Regretfully, we are leaving but we are coming back, I hope, with a renewed commitment to ensure we will, in fact, pass the provisions in the juvenile justice committee report. 
   I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from New Jersey, who has particularly championed the legislation to close the gun show loophole. 
   I yield to the Senator from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to join Cambodian-Americans in celebration of the Cambodian New Year, Chol Chnam, one of the major celebrations of the Cambodian culture. Over the next three days there will be gatherings across the United States to celebrate the beginning of the Year of the Dragon. I take this opportunity to wish all of these people a very happy New Year. 
   The Cambodian New Year represents more than just a renewal of the calendar and traditional end of the harvest, it is also a celebration of faith. Entry into the New Year, or Maha Sangkrant, is marked by the sounding of a bell. With the sounding, it is believed that the New Angel arrives. Throughout the day people participate in ceremonies and bring food to the Buddhist monks and religious leaders. The second day of celebration, or Vana Bat, is a time to show consideration for others. Gifts are given to parents, grandparents and teachers as a show of respect and charity is offered to the less fortunate. The third day, or Loeng  Sak, includes more religious ceremonies and rituals to bring good luck and happiness to families. 
   In my home state of Rhode Island there are numerous businesses owned by Cambodian-American families, most of them in the capital city Providence. These establishments contribute much to the local economy. 
   The Cambodian New Year is an appropriate time to remind all Americans why we must support the political and economic stabilization of Cambodia. As the nation continues to recover from three decades of civil conflict, including the atrocities committed by the Khmer Rouge, it is critical that the United States and international community aid the Cambodian people in their efforts to build a lasting democracy. 
   Therefore, on this day marking the beginning of Chol Chnam, I encourage all U.S. citizens to join in the spirit of this special holiday.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Somewhere between 5 and 7 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, last week, by a bipartisan vote of 53-47, the Senate adopted the Reed amendment to the budget resolution calling on the conference committee on the juvenile justice bill to submit a report by April 20 of this year, which is the 1-year anniversary of the tragedy at Columbine High School, and include in that report commonsense gun control provisions which this Senate passed last May. 
   These provisions include an amendment that child safety locks be sold with all handguns; an amendment to close the gun show loopholes so a complete background check can be done on all purchasers at gun shows; a ban on the importation of high-capacity ammunition clips; and a ban on juvenile possession of semi-automatic assault weapons. 
   We adopted the Reed amendment, sponsored by many and supported by 53 Senators, because we wanted to send a message to the leadership of the House and Senate that America has waited too long for us to respond to the tragedy at Columbine High School, too long to respond to the pervasive floodtide of gun violence that every day kills 12 American children. 
   We have been down this road before. In 1993 and 1994, after a long legislative battle, we were able to pass the Brady law and the assault weapons ban over the objections of the gun lobby and their allies in Congress. Since 1993, we have seen a 20 percent reduction in crime in the United States. Gun crimes in particular fell 37 percent between 1993 and 1998. 
   No one can claim the Brady law or the assault weapons ban alone was the cause of this decline. There are other factors. We also know that preventing 500,000 felons, fugitives, and other prohibited purchasers from easily obtaining firearms has made a significant contribution to that reduction in gun violence. 
   The American people were with us when we passed those commonsense gun initiatives in 1993 and 1994, and they are with us today. Eighty-nine percent of Americans favor requiring a background check on all sales at gun shows. 
   A similar percentage, 89 percent, favors requiring child safety locks be sold with all handguns. 
   Unfortunately, the gun lobby and its allies in Congress are trying to hide behind a claim there is inaction in enforcement, arguing that we need tougher enforcement, not new gun laws. 
   We agree, we need good, strong enforcement of our gun laws. We need additional resources devoted to this task. That is why we support the President's request for substantial new resources for gun law enforcement, including 1,000 new prosecutors, 500 new ATF agents and inspectors, an expansion of the Project Exile program to toughen sentences for gun crimes, and new ballistics testing procedures. We need all these things. 
   But the gun lobby presents us with a false choice between tougher enforcement or more legislation. The American people know we need both. You cannot enforce a loophole. We need legislation to close these loopholes so our  authorities can truly and effectively and efficiently enforce the law. 
   The gun show loophole is just one example. When one-quarter or more of dealers at gun shows are unlicensed and therefore are not subject to the Brady background checks--they do not have to check the background of the purchaser--it does not take a genius to figure out, if a prohibited person seeks to purchase a weapon, where they will go. They will go right to those unlicensed dealers at the gun shows. 
   Under current law, someone who is a felon, someone who is prohibited from purchasing a firearm under the Brady law, and other laws, could go to an unlicensed dealer at a gun show and purchase as many weapons as he or she wanted without any type of background check, and they would not be effectively screened for the acquisition of a firearm. 
   Senator LAUTENBERG has many times on this floor pointed to Robyn Anderson--the woman who went to a Colorado gun show with Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris to help them buy 3 of the guns they used to kill 13 people at Columbine High School--who has said that the process was much too easy. In fact, it is reported that Harris and Klebold repeatedly asked dealers at the gun show if they were licensed or unlicensed, eventually finding a private seller, an unlicensed seller, in order to avoid paperwork and background checks. 
   What could be clearer? What could be more compelling for the need to close this loophole than the demonstration that these two young men were clever enough--and, frankly, the law is so wide open, you do not have to be that clever--to find a way to purchase weapons when they were supposed to be prevented from doing it? And they did. 
   Robyn Anderson later testified before the Colorado legislature, saying:  
   It was too easy. I wish it had been more difficult. I wouldn't have helped them buy the guns if I had faced a background check.  
   We need to move promptly and swiftly to pass the Lautenberg amendment which was included in the juvenile justice bill to close this loophole and give our authorities the leverage they need to truly enforce the laws. The time has come for action. We have waited for an entire year. That wait is unforgivable. The memories of those students and what happened there linger. We should have done something much sooner than this. But we have a chance. 
   What is even worse is that Congress is about to go into a 
   recess at the end of this week. So when all of those grieving families in Colorado and across the country come together on April 20 to ask, ``What have we done,'' not only will we say ``nothing,'' but we will be far from the center of Washington where we should have done something. We can pass this legislation. 
   What kind of message does that send, not only to the people of Columbine but the families of thousands and thousands of people who die each year? Over half of them are not killed in some type of confrontation; over half of them are killed by accidents and suicides. 
   We have to do something. We can do something. If we had safety locks on weapons, that could help, or we could think about, as some States do, having a waiting period. We used to have a waiting period with the Brady bill, but, again, to get that legislation through the Congress, we had to--as soon as the instant check system was put into place--abandon the waiting period. 
   There is more we can do. 
   Finally, I thank those Republican and Democratic Senators who joined last week to pass the Reed amendment, to send a strong signal to the leadership that we have to do something--words are insufficient--to express truly what we should express with respect to the tragedy at Columbine. 
   We need action. We need legislation. We need laws that will give our enforcement authorities the tools to do the job and do it well. Although the time is dwindling away, I hope we can move quickly so that on April 20 we will not only commemorate a tragedy but celebrate the passage of legislation that will help prevent, I hope, future tragedies. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 3037. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this amendment is cosponsored by my colleague, Senator BINGAMAN, and others. It expresses the sense of the Senate that Congress enact legislation this year that grants the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate tobacco products. This amendment does not specify what form of regulation will be adopted, but it authorizes the FDA to adopt a legislative scheme to regulate tobacco products. 
   I ask unanimous consent that Senator KENNEDY be added to the amendment as a cosponsor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, with the recent Supreme Court decision, it is imperative Congress act, and it is imperative it act this year to ensure we can properly regulate tobacco products in society. I urge adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Senator from Nevada for yielding time. I am going to take a moment to discuss an amendment that I will propose later today. 
   On May 20 of last year, this Senate passed effective, commonsense gun safety legislation as part of the juvenile justice bill. The vote was overwhelming--73-25. It was in response to the tragedy at Columbine High school, a tragedy that shook the very foundation of America's sense of security, their sense of the well-being for their children. In response to that great tragedy, this Senate acted. It passed a commonsense gun control provision that would close loopholes in our Nation's gun laws--not only to help prevent future Columbines but to try to stop this pervasive wave of gun violence that is sweeping America and claiming 12 children each and every day. 
   Yet here we are, almost 1 year from the day of the Columbine tragedy, and we still have not brought to this floor the conference report so that we can vote upon it and send it to the President for his signature. 
   Leadership, both the House and the Senate, has stood idly by while all of America asked us for a very simple request to get on with the business we started last May to bring the juvenile justice bill to the floor for a vote, for passage we hope, and for the signature of the President. 
   What happened in the intervening year is that this conference committee met only once last August. In effect, the message that I think is being communicated is there is a hope and an expectation by the Republican leadership in the House and Senate that this problem will go away, that people will forget about Columbine, and that people will forget about this tragedy. We cannot forget. We have to take active steps to ensure that 
   the measure we pass will at least come back for a clear vote and, hopefully, come back so we can incorporate it in real legislation. 
   It is very unusual that a conference would take this long. I can recall being part of a financial service modernization bill--very contentious legislation;  legislation that involved numerous interest groups; legislation that effectively failed at the very last moment in the last Congress; and, again, in this Congress--that was subject to a tumultuous series of legislative maneuvers on both sides of Congress. Yet it only took us 3 months to rationalize, to compromise, and to ultimately pass this bill in the conference. 
   We just spent 1 month dealing with the issues of transportation in the Transportation Act, a $209 billion legislative initiative. 
   My suggestion is pretty clear, that this is not routine business as usual by taking this long for a conference. It represents a deliberate decision not to act, a deliberate decision to try by stalling, by delay, by tying this up with the approaching elections so that effectively what we will do is end prematurely the important steps we began last May 20 by adopting commonsense gun control legislation. 
   This is something the American people clearly want. It is something that, when they are asked, they will overwhelmingly say are commonsense measures. 
   A poll was recently conducted in which over 90 percent of Americans responded by saying they wanted child safety locks. In this group, 85 percent of the gun owners responded saying they, too, wanted child safety locks. They also want us to close the loopholes on the gun shows by an overwhelming majority. Yet despite overwhelming public support, despite our already accomplished legislation in this party 
   the bill languishes in conference. 
   In this debate, there is a great hue and cry that we don't need more laws, just enforce the ones on the books. In this debate, law enforcement is on our side. They recognize that in addition to enforcing the laws, we need other commonsense laws that will give them additional tools, that will go to the heart of many issues that have to be addressed if we want a sane and peaceful society. 
   This chart indicates the number of associations of law enforcement officials that are strongly supportive of our initiative, including the International Association of Chiefs of Police and the International Brotherhood of Police Officers. Police are on our side. They stand with us to demand we take effective, prompt action to send this juvenile justice legislation to the President for his signature. 
   In addition to that, I was this morning with a group of police officers from my home State of Rhode Island and others from Maryland. They were quite clear; they want to see prompt action. When we have the American people overwhelmingly supporting this provision, when we have law enforcement, those men and women who stand most in the line of fire, demanding this legislation be passed, it is indeed puzzling we are not taking effective steps to pass this legislation. 
   Let me briefly review what is at issue in the juvenile justice bill so we can be clear about the nature of this legislation. First, in the juvenile justice bill we passed an amendment requiring that a secure storage or safety device be sold with all handguns. Unlike virtually every other product in the United States, firearms produced in this country are not subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. 
   Again, one of the great ironies of present-day America is that a toy gun is subject to safety provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Commission; a real gun that can cause real harm and real damage--death in many cases--is not subject to such regulation. As a result, manufacturers of firearms produce weapons lacking, in some cases, even the most rudimentary safety features designed to prevent the accidental or intentional shooting of children or by children. 
   The tragic consequences are undeniable. Each year, suicides and accidental shootings make up more than half of the tens of thousands of gun deaths in the United States. Kids are frequently the victims. This is an important point. The gun lobby tries to suggest that the victims of shootings are being waylaid by armed desperados who are law breakers who will never follow laws. In fact, the reason they are on the streets is that the laws are ineffectual for putting them behind bars. More than half the shootings are accidents, with no criminal intent, or suicide, in which the individual is so depressed and despondent, they are seizing a weapon to destroy themselves. 
   We have been shocked recently by the tragic death of Kayla Rowland, a 6-year-old shot by another 6-year-old in Mount Morris Township, MI. I believe if a Member came to this floor last May 20 and predicted that a 6-year-old child would be shot by another 6-year-old child in a schoolroom in the United States, we would have been hooted down as hysterical demagogs. Sadly and tragically, that has happened. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, as I pointed out, we were all shocked by the death of Kayla Rowland. That week, People magazine conducted a review of other deaths of children which are symptomatic of what is happening in America. They don't capture the headlines across the country as the tragic death of that 6-year-old did, but they suggest what is happening day in and day out--the 12 children in America killed each day. 
   I will recite some of the stories in which youngsters were killed by firearms. A woman in Carroll County, MD, 18 years old, died of an accidental gunshot wound to the head after she and her friends were admiring her father's .22-caliber revolver. Her parents were out of the country. They were doing missionary work in Costa Rica. 
   A simple safety lock on that weapon perhaps could have saved that young woman's life. This is one of those classic accidents the gun lobby doesn't want to talk about because it can be effective and should be passed by our legislation which will put trigger locks on the weapons. It is not a question of irresponsible, reckless parents whose moral or ethical values contribute to the death of a child. These parents are missionaries, literally doing the Lord's work, in Costa Rica, when their child accidentally shoots herself. 
   A 6-year-old boy and a friend in Shopiere, WI, were horsing around with a .22-caliber pistol his mother kept for protection and usually stored in her dresser. After posing with the gun for a photograph, the boy pointed the gun at his head. It went off, killing him. As his grandmother said: It was kid's play, total kid's play. 
   Again, would a trigger lock have helped? Perhaps. 
   How about the 15-year-old boy in San Bernardino, CA, who found his stepfather's handgun while his pregnant mother slept, and he used it to shoot himself. 
   A 16-year-old girl in Altoona, PA, argued with her father, a gun collector, about her curfew, and then took a .22-caliber handgun from under his mattress while he was out and shot herself in the head. 
   All of these young lives were lost in just 1 week in America. We could catalog such deaths every week in America. 
   The gun lobby says we don't need gun locks; we don't need gun laws; we just have to do a better job enforcing those already on the books. How is law enforcement going to save the lives of kids such as those I have talked about? They are not hardened criminals. They are not in bad families. They are not out robbing banks or terrorizing in gangs. 
   The only way they can be helped is through prevention--not enforcement but prevention. That is what will save these kids. Prevention is the key--not to the exclusion of enforcement; we have to enforce our laws and be tough. 
   Later today, Senator DURBIN will introduce a resolution that will amend it and ask us to put more resources into enforcement. I strongly support that. But we need prevention and enforcement. We require safety caps on bottles of aspirin and bottles of prescription drugs. It makes no sense that we don't require the same types of safety devices on handguns. 
   We have to do it. It is included in our juvenile justice bill. If we maintain it in conference and bring it to the floor, we can save many children in this country. 
   Regarding gun shows--and I see my colleague from New Jersey, Senator LAUTENBERG, who was the leader in this effort--with the help of Vice President GORE, by one vote we were able to pass sensible rules to close the gun show loophole to require that background checks would always be conducted for all the thousands of gun shows around the country. 
   Currently at most gun shows, one-fourth or more of the dealers are unlicensed. Therefore, they do not have to perform a Brady law background check. This is a serious loophole. If someone is a felon, if someone has a shady background, if someone is irrational and looking for a gun, he or she would go to a gun show, go to a licensed dealer, and then the dealer would explain they have to do a gun check. Then what would happen? That person would certainly keep looking around until he found an unlicensed dealer who had a whole cache of guns and say, Do I have to do a background check? 
   No, no, not at all. 
   We can see in that supermarket, that bazaar of guns, that is where, likely, those people who do not want a check can go and today they will be able to get a handgun. 
   It is just common sense to effectively enforce the Brady law, to make sure this gun show loophole is closed, and closed in a way that allows for checking those people who should be checked, the ones for whom you might have to find State records that are not available on a weekend; for whom you might need indeed more than 72 hours to conduct a background check. 
   Another is the ban on juvenile possession of assault weapons. There is absolutely no reason a youngster should have an assault weapon. These weapons were designed to kill people. 
   I served in the Army at the point where the transition was made between the old M-14 weapon, which was a rifle that had great accuracy, that was part of what some people derided as the old musket Army of aimed fire, and the tactics of the strategists back in the 1960s who said: We do not need aimed fire; we just need a weapon that, in close quarters, can deliver massive rates of fire, high rates of cyclical fire. The whole purpose being not hunting, not target shooting, but destroying other people, which is the nature of warfare. That is where the assault weapon comes. No child needs to have those. 
   A ban on the importation of large-capacity clips is another provision. It is illegal for these clips to be produced by American manufacturers, but through another loophole they can be imported into the country. Once again, if you are a sportsman out hunting, you do not need a magazine that can accommodate 45 rounds. People who need these types of magazines are folks who should not have them, in a sense, because the potential for violence, the potential for criminal activity is much more enhanced, I believe, when you have a magazine that has 40 or 50 rounds rather than those old-fashioned hunting rifles which are part and parcel of the American story. 
   In addition to these provisions, the underlying legislation would increase the enforcement capacity of Federal agents and local agents by expanding the successful youth crime gun interdiction initiative to 250 cities by the year 2003, enhancing the efforts to trace guns used in crime and identify and arrest adults who sell guns to children. All of these other 
   worthy provisions are there; also, increased penalties on so-called straw purchases--those individuals who buy guns knowing the ultimate recipient is unable to have the gun either because of a criminal record or because of age. It would keep guns out of the hands of violent offenders. It would also allow the Federal Trade Commission and Attorney General to study the extent to which the gun industry markets and distributes its products to juveniles. 
   They are all reasonable measures. All should be done. But what has been done? Because of the inaction, and deliberate inaction, of the leadership, nothing has been done. The American people have waited too long. Later today, I will be offering, along with 22 of my colleagues, a sense-of-the-Senate resolution calling on the juvenile justice conferees to complete and submit the conference report before April 20, the first anniversary of the Columbine shooting, and to include in the conference report the amendments I have just discussed, that were passed by this Senate, seeking to limit access to firearms by juveniles, convicted felons, and other persons prohibited by law from purchasing or possessing firearms. 
   Will the passage of this amendment stop every gun crime in this country? No, but it will save lives, the lives of those children I talked about, the lives of children shot accidentally, the lives, perhaps, of people who, if they do not have easy access to firearms, may think a moment before taking their lives. 
   If we do these things: Close the gun show loophole, require safety locks to be sold with handguns, if we ban the importation of large-capacity clips and juvenile possession of assault weapons, we will bring some sense to our gun laws and we will provide a meaningful memorial to those children who died at Columbine and those children who die each day by gun violence. 
   I notice my colleagues from New Mexico and from Vermont are here. I suspect they would like to speak also. As a result, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Nevada. 
   My resolution is very clear. It asks that the conferees return the report back to us on the juvenile justice bill so we can vote up or down on the measures we passed on May 20 of last year, in response to Columbine, which provide for safety locks on handguns, ban large clips for automatic weapons, and would also close the gun show loophole. All of these measures are supported by an extraordinary majority of Americans. 
   Nearly 90 percent of Americans favor requiring child safety locks on all new handguns, including 85 percent of the gun owners who were surveyed. In addition, 89 percent also favor background checks on all sales at gun shows. This is what the American people want. It is not what the gun lobby wants. That is why we have waited 1 year, not in principles compromise and debate but essentially trying to strangle this measure we passed so that it won't come back to the floor. 
   There has been one meeting of the conferees, which is just trying to kill it off by indifference, hoping we will forget about Columbine, that we will forget about the violence that is plaguing the country. 
   Anyone who is suggesting that these measures are designed to end crime in America is being slightly hyperbolic. What it might do is prevent those hundreds, perhaps thousands, of deaths a year by handguns through accidents, through suicides, through the mishandling of weapons. That in itself will be a great achievement. 
   I had the opportunity this morning to talk about some of the incidents involving children, young people, who might have been deterred, not from criminal activity but gun accidents, gun violence. I was particularly shocked in my home community of Providence by a bunch of young people, 16-, 17-year-olds, horsing around, getting into a little bit of an ego contest. What happened? They were in a place where, when they turned around, somebody in the crowd had a gun. Not the two young people wrestling but somebody had a gun. They got the weapon. One person, out of a sense of just total irrationality, fired, hitting the other young man in the head, critically wounding the young man, and was so distraught by remorse for what he had done that he ran into a backyard and killed himself. 
   That is what we are talking about in terms of gun violence. There is no law that would prevent that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I would like to finish my remarks. 
   We can do much more, and we should do much more. I have heard people say all weapons should be secured in the home, if they are stored there. The child safety lock will ensure that takes place. 
   On the gun show loophole, the GAO has done a report that suggested, under the Brady instant check, 73 percent of these background checks are finished almost immediately, conducted almost simultaneously with the request, that 95 percent of all checks are completed within 2 hours. It is only those checks that raise serious questions that go beyond 2 hours, which will in no way interfere with the operation of a gun show. It is in those checks where the most likely violations occur in terms of getting a weapon which you should not have. In fact, those 
   people are 20 times more likely to be unable to acquire a weapon.  
   In the nature of a gun show, many of the dealers at gun shows are licensed gun dealers. They are subject to the Brady law. They have to do the background check. We can't abandon reason when we come to the floor. If you are looking for a weapon and you know you are going to face a Brady check when you go to a gun show, where are you going to go? You will go not to the licensed gun dealer but someone who is selling guns and doesn't have to do a background check. Then you will hope, if any check is done, it will be done so arbitrarily that you won't be caught. That is what the statistics show in the GAO report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I would like to finish. My colleagues want to speak on other matters. Let me say something about this mantra about enforcement: You just have to enforce the laws. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask for 2 additional minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-7-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. The NRA, the gun lobby, talks about enforcement. They have persistently, over decades, frustrated real enforcement. For 10 years they refused to support the Brady bill and told their members it would effectively destroy the right to bear arms in America, resulting in total, strict gun control on all Americans. 
   With respect to the operation of inspections, in 1986 the McClure-Volkmer Act was supported strongly by the NRA--$1.5 million of lobbying activity. That legislation limits ATF's ability to conduct unannounced inspections. If you want to enforce the law, that is fine. Then why does the gun lobby go ahead and try to constrain the law so that we can't effectively enforce laws that are on the books already? If you look at the number of ATF agents, it has declined. Fortunately, they have increased over the last year. As a result, we have more prosecutions, more referrals. 
   The Wall Street Journal suggests, based upon evidence from a Chicago investigation:  
   While firearm-rights enthusiasts argue that there are enough gun laws on the books, and the problem is merely lax enforcement, the Chicago case illustrates that in some areas, the gun laws have holes and enforcement is harder than one might think.  
   That is the Wall Street Journal, not some radical newspaper in this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-8-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 2964. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-9-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-10-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, on April 20 of last year, America and the world was shocked by the gun violence and carnage at Columbine High School. Shortly thereafter, on May 20, this Senate passed legislation within the juvenile justice bill that provided for sensible gun control measures, including safety locks for handguns, background checks on all guns at gun shows and the ban on the importation of large clips for automatic weapons. Since our vote on May 20, the measure has languished in the conference committee that has met only once--last August. 
   My amendment is very straightforward and simple. It asks that the conferees send to the House this measure so we can vote so we can do what the American people want. Over 90 percent of the American people want gun locks on weapons. A large number of them want to close all the loopholes in the gun shows. We must do that to respond to America, not just with respect to Columbine, but for the 12 young children each day that die in America because of gunfires. 
   I urge passage of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-11-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000405</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to join Senator COLLINS, Senator BOND, Senator JEFFORDS and 32 others in introducing the Home Health Payment Fairness Act. The intent of this important legislation is quite simple--to eliminate the 15 percent reduction in home health payments that is scheduled to go into effect in October 2001. Last year, Senator JEFFORDS and I introduced a more broad home health bill, called the Preserve Access to Care in the Home, or PATCH Act, which among other things, would have eliminated this potentially devastating payment reduction. Although we were not able to get this provision included in the 1999 Balanced Budget Refinement Act (BBRA), we were successful in getting a delay in the implementation of this reduction. However, we must see to it that the 15 percent cut is eliminated--and I hope we can achieve that goal this year. 
   Over the past thirty years, there has been a tremendous shift in the location where health care is actually provided. Increasingly, older and sicker patients are able to receive care in the comfort of their own home, instead of a hospital or nursing home. This incredible change can be attributed to four primary causes: greater reliance on alternative care settings because of the growing cost of inpatient care; technological improvements that have enhanced the capacity to provide sophisticated medical treatments in the home setting; the growing aging population; and the increasing popularity of home- and community-based care as an alternative to the institutional care of a nursing home. Indeed, home health care is an integral part of the spectrum of long term care. 
   As a result, by the mid-1990's the average annual growth rate for Medicare home health spending was 5.3%. The 1997 Balanced Budget Act (BBA) sought to restrain the unbounded growth in outlays for this benefit. Originally, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) anticipated that savings through changes in the benefit would total $16.1 billion over five years. In reality, we have saved a total of $19.7 billion in just two years, and are expected to reduce outlays by $69 billion over the five year period--four times what was originally projected. Not surprisingly, since the BBA's enactment, there has been a remarkable 48 percent decline in Medicare home health expenditures. 
   These dramatic reductions have all too often been borne on the backs of small, nonprofit home health agencies and the elderly and disabled beneficiaries they serve. Home health care agencies in my home state of Rhode Island have been especially hard hit by these changes. We have seen a significant decline in the number of beneficiaries served and access to care for more medically complex patients threatened by these cuts. These reductions have clearly had negative impact on patients who heavily rely on home health services. In one instance, a woman from Pawtucket, Rhode Island had to wait 112 days after being discharged from the hospital before getting home health services. In the wealthiest nation in the world, this kind of situation is simply unacceptable. 
   Mr. President, nationally, between 1997 and 1998, the number of Medicare beneficiaries receiving home health services has fallen 14 percent, while the total number of home health visits has fallen by 40 percent. We have seen a similar trend in Rhode Island, where over 3,000 fewer beneficiaries are receiving home health care--representing a decline of 16 percent--and the total number of visits has fallen 38 percent. These individuals are either being forced to turn to more expensive alternatives, such as institutional-based nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities for their care, or these individuals are simply going without care, which places an immeasurable burden on the family and friends of vulnerable beneficiaries. 
   I truly do not believe this is the path we want to remain on when it comes to home health care. In light of the impending ``senior boom'' that will be hitting our entitlement programs in a few short years, we should be doing what we can to preserve and strengthen the Medicare home health benefit. We can begin to do this by eliminating the 15 percent reduction in home health payments. By taking this step, we will alleviate an enormous burden that has been looming over financially strapped home health agencies and the frail and vulnerable Medicare beneficiaries who rely on these critical services. 
   I urge my colleagues to join us in enacting legislation that will repeal this unnecessary and inappropriate reduction. I look forward to working with Senator COLLINS, Senator JEFFORDS and my other colleagues on this critical issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000404</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, today we begin our debate on the budget. I think we should begin by noting that remarkable economic progress has been made in this country over the last 7 years, since 1993. There are 20 million new jobs in this country. Unemployment is at a record low. Home ownership is expanding dramatically. Productivity has been increased significantly. Inflation remains low. All of that good news is a result of budget decisions we made years ago under the direction of President Clinton and with the support of my colleagues in the Democratic caucus. 
   I am afraid this budget brought to us today by the Republican majority will undo most of that good work. We can all reflect upon the nay saying that took place years ago in 1993 where, when I was in the other body, my colleagues said this Clinton proposal would cause unemployment; it would cause a huge collapse; a recession would take place. 
   Nothing could be further from the truth. The proof really is in the pudding. The plans the President proposed, and in which he was supported by the Democratic caucus, produced remarkable economic prosperity and recovery throughout this country. 
   As I said, we have gone from a huge deficit to a surplus. But now we are prepared to forget the lessons of the last several decades and embark upon another extravagant and reckless, in fact, budget plan that will essentially, through untargeted tax reductions, dissipate the surplus and miss a significant opportunity to invest in the families of America, invest in those programs that are so critical to their future, and invest in ways that will make this country stronger. I am afraid if we support this proposal by the Republican majority, we will, in fact, see the great progress of the last decade undone. 
   What we should be doing, instead, is investing in our people, not proposing drastic tax cuts which essentially soak up all these hard-won surplus dollars. Rather than investing in health care and education, in those programs that are so central to the American family, this budget would result in drastic reductions in discretionary spending. At least 6 percent, or $20 billion, in fiscal year 2001 alone would be cut away from discretionary spending. We would find ourselves unable to keep up with simple inflation. Indeed, we would find ourselves lagging behind our requirements to fund programs on just a continuing basis, let alone making those additional investments which are so critical to the future of this country--in education, in health care, in veterans' affairs, in environmental policy. 
   This is also particularly suspicious when you look at the last several years and the avowed purpose of holding the line on spending of this Republican Congress. In fact, under the last few Republican Congresses, nondefense spending rose 3.2 percent in 1997, 2.6 percent in 1998, 5.3 percent in 1999, and 10.7 percent last year. Somehow this budget says we will hold spending 2.7 percent less than last year's spending. It would defy the history of this Republican Congress, going back several sessions. 
   So we begin with a budget plan that is faulty on its assumptions and faulty on its presumptions about what we can and what we will do. What we will see, in fact, is that we will forgo billions of dollars of necessary spending that we have never been able to forgo in the past, and we will 
   not invest additional resources in important programs. In fact, with this budget plan, I fear we will end up, as we have in several past years, where, at the end of the session, we are in almost a train wreck; we come together with an omnibus appropriations bill that pays scant attention to this budget. I hope we can do better. I hope we can invest in those programs that are going to make a difference in the lives of working families rather than dissipating roughly 98 percent of the projected surplus into untargeted and misguided tax cuts. 
   Also, I hope we can do those things which all our constituents are asking us to do. One is a Medicare prescription benefit. I commend Senator WYDEN and colleagues on the Budget Committee because they at least were able to put in a $40 billion set-aside for a new Medicare prescription drug program. But, unfortunately, this initiative has been complicated, in a way compromised, because the last several years of the projected spending is tied into substantial Medicare reform. Again, given the record of this Congress over many sessions, to make a wise and necessary investment in our seniors contingent upon reform of Medicare is, to me, looking for an escape hatch rather than directly confronting this issue, directly appropriating the money, directly making the commitment of resources right now, unconditionally making that commitment. 
   I believe, also, we have a wealth of things to do with respect to our investment in education: reducing class size, increasing professional development for teachers, and giving the States resources for more accountability. We have, in fact, additional challenges in taking care of a generation of Americans who fought in World War II and who are now coming, with increasing numbers, to the Veterans' Administration with increased and more complex needs. 
   We have requirements to ensure that our natural resources are protected. 
   We have requirements to ensure we maintain a strong defensive posture in the world. 
   All of these cannot be done as well as we will and can do them if we abandon the strategy of massive tax reductions and rather look at targeted tax reductions for middle and lower-income Americans, together with wise investments across the range of initiatives. 
   The other aspect of this budget is a continuing need to invest in our infrastructure, not only our human capital in terms of education but our physical capital: Roads, bridges, better schools. All these things we cannot do if we essentially dissipate our resources the way this budget proposes. 
   There is something else we can and should do, and that is to begin to reduce our national debt held outside the Government. The President has proposed a plan to do that. Again, I think this budget represents a plan that is less adequate and less satisfactory. 
   For all these reasons, I urge this budget be carefully examined and then, just as carefully, rejected; that we embrace the alternative budget of my colleagues on the Democratic side. Also, in the course of this debate we have an opportunity to look at other issues which are close to all of us, issues that do not go to the financing, essentially, of the Government, but issues of importance to the time and moment of this great debate, issues such as gun control and others through which we can send a signal to the American public that we are listening. 
   I hope at end of the process we can come forward with a budget that represents an investment in America, that represents a recognition we have worked hard to bring ourselves to a place where we have surpluses which can be used--we hope wisely. We do not want to undo that progress. We do not want to go back; we want to go forward into a brighter future for all the families of America. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to briefly discuss a reauthorization bill introduced yesterday by Senators JEFFORDS and KENNEDY, the Ryan White CARE Act Amendments of 2000, S. 2311. This legislation is very important in that it will help to continue to improve the quality and availability of care for low-income, uninsured, and under insured individuals and families affected by AIDS and HIV disease. I am pleased to be a cosponsor of this initiative. 
   Ryan White died on April 8, 1990 at age 18. He was a prime example of someone whose own community rejected him when he was only 13 years old because of his health status. As a result of his courageous battle to attend public school in Indiana, we all learned and understood more about AIDS. Ryan White played a major role in changing people's views concerning the disease and AIDS patients. Through his actions, he conveyed the importance of education and awareness to combat the spread of this deadly disease. Even after his death, the story of his courageous battle with AIDS continues to impact the common man. His legacy lives on through the Ryan White CARE Act. 
   This reauthorization provides us the opportunity to improve this bipartisan legislation to adequately care for those persons affected with AIDS and HIV. As noted by Ryan's mother, Jeanne, ``We have come a long way since Ryan's death, but we still have so far to go.'' Although the number of AIDS cases continues to decline each year, the number of HIV-positive individuals continues to grow at an alarming rate. This legislation would expand the duties of the Planning Council, provide for a Quality Management Program, establish requirements for heath care referral relationships, fund early intervention services, and improve resources for infants, children, and women. Until a cure is found, the Ryan White CARE Act will continue to be the ``payer of last resort'' for thousands of individuals who otherwise cannot afford health care or basic subsistence needs. In my home State of Rhode Island, $3,463,706 of Ryan White CARE funding was provided during fiscal year 1999 to ensure access to life-sustaining drugs and other critical health and social services for those individuals affected with AIDS and HIV. 
   Because AIDS and HIV is a national problem, it deserves national attention. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee to make further enhancements and improvements to the bill. Specifically, I understand my colleague, Senator BINGAMAN, has been working on a provision that would allow more states to have access to dental care grant funding under Part F of the act. I believe this is a very important issue for individuals with HIV and AIDS and hope this provision will be incorporated into the overall bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation with my distinguished colleague, Senator BINGAMAN, that we hope will mark the beginning of a dialogue on an issue that has tremendous implications for our nation's public health, and more specifically, the health and well-being of our children. Today, we are introducing the ``Tobacco Regulatory Fairness Act of 2000''. 
   The goal of this legislation is quite simple--to grant the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority it needs to regulate the manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of tobacco products. 
   A week ago, the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 that the FDA does not have the authority to regulate tobacco products, thus nullifying regulations promulgated by the agency in August 1996.  While a slim majority of the court found that the agency lacked the jurisdiction necessary to act on this class of products, the Justices in the majority and minority both opinions acknowledged the clear threat unregulated tobacco products poses to public health. In the majority opinion, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor stated that tobacco was ``perhaps the single most significant threat to public health in the United States.'' Similarly, Justice Stephen G. Breyer, a former professor of mine at Harvard University School of Law, pointed out in the dissenting opinion that FDA's ability to regulate tobacco products clearly fit into its basic authority, ``the overall protection of the public health.'' 
   Although the court upheld the 1998 ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, the decision does not dispute, and, in fact, it reaffirms that the FDA is the most appropriate agency to regulate tobacco products, given the general scope of its authority and its emphasis on protecting the public health. Now, it is a matter of Congress taking action to clearly give the FDA the long overdue authority it requires. 
   So today, I introduce this legislation as a challenge to my colleagues to do what is right--to debate and pass legislation that will once and for all give FDA the tools it needs to enact regulations that will help to protect children and others from the dangers of tobacco. 
   After the long and protracted debate in the Senate two years ago on the McCain tobacco bill, I am sure that most of my colleagues are familiar with the numerous statistics that are often cited in relation to the dangers of smoking and its devastating impact on society in terms of health care costs, lost productivity, disability, and loss of life. However, I believe these figures bear repeating. It is estimated that today, some 50 million Americans are addicted to tobacco, and one out of every three long-term users will die from a disease related to their tobacco use. 
   The cost of tobacco use not only results in lives lost, but also has a considerable toll on health care expenses. It is estimated that the health care costs associated with treating tobacco-related disease totals over $80 billion a year--with almost half being paid for by taxpayer financed health care programs. 
   We also know that tobacco addiction is clearly a problem that starts with children: almost 90 percent of adult smokers started using tobacco at or before age 18. Each year, one million children become regular smokers--and one-third of them will die prematurely of lung cancer, emphysema, and similar tobacco caused diseases. Unless current trends are reversed, five million kids under 18 alive today will die from tobacco related diseases. 
   In Rhode Island, while overall cigarette use is declining slightly, it has increased by more than 25 percent among high-schoolers. Currently, over one-third of New England high school students under age 18 use tobacco products. In Rhode Island, over one third of high school students smoke. 
   Indeed, tobacco use continues to permeate the ranks of the young. For decades, the tobacco industry has ingeniously promoted its products. It has done so with total disregard for the health of its customers. It has relied upon cool, youthful images to sell its products. The tobacco industry has taken an addiction that prematurely kills and dressed it up as a glamorous symbol of success and sex appeal. 
   By providing the FDA with the appropriate and unambiguous authority, we can be assured that these products comply with minimum health and safety standards. Tobacco should be regulated in the same way every other product we consume is regulated. 
   I will concede that there are some formidable challenges ahead--but these challenges are not insurmountable. During the 1998 debate on the McCain tobacco bill, a majority of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agreed our country needed a national tobacco control policy. While we may not have succeeded then, we cannot and must not allow the progress the FDA has made in limiting minors' access to tobacco be lost. 
   We all know that tobacco is a substance that not only reduces the quality of one's life in the short term, but with lifelong use results in untimely death. We have an opportunity this year to make a real difference. Through the legislation I am introducing today, I call my colleagues to action in the ongoing fight to protect the long term health of the children of this country. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in this commitment to enacting legislation granting FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my support for H.R. 2559, the ``Federal Crop Insurance Act''. Today the Senate will approve a $6 billion crop insurance reform bill designed to increase premium subsidies for farmers who buy more comprehensive coverage and expand the availability of crop insurance for specialty crops. The reforms in this legislation will enable farmers in Rhode Island and across the country to obtain more crop insurance coverage and reduce income losses due to natural disasters. 
   I and my colleagues from the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic opposed last year's farm disaster bill because it did not provide adequate relief to farmers in our region who were hit by the terrible drought conditions of 1999. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) found that four states in the Northeast, including Rhode Island, New Jersey, Maryland, and Delaware, experienced the driest growing season in their histories. From April through July, Rhode Island was the driest it has been in 105 years of record-keeping by NOAA's National Climatic Data Center. 
   Unfortunately, forecasters at the National Weather Service are predicting continued drought conditions this year, because we are starting out with a deficit of rainfall and, even with the snowstorms of January, winter precipitation was 3.5 inches below normal for our region. 
   The prospect of another long dry summer makes this crop insurance reform bill all the more important. I know that people may not always  think of the Northeast when they think of farming. But in my small state alone there are about 700 farms. Farmers in Rhode Island grow vegetables, turf, nursery stock, cranberries, strawberries, and potatoes. My state is also home to many orchards and dairy farms. Many of our crops are not insurable under the current federal crop insurance program, and that's why I strongly support the significant investment in research and development of new specialty crop policies provided by this bill. 
   I also support provisions in the bill to remove the ``area trigger'' for the Non-insured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP). I believe broader NAP eligibility is one of the most effective ways to assist farmers in the eastern United States who face severe production losses due to drought, floods, or other disasters. 
   Currently, NAP crops are eligible for assistance when: (1) expected ``Area Yield'' for the crop is reduced by more than 35 percent because of natural disaster; and 2) individual crop losses are in excess of 50% of the individual's approved yield, or the producer is prevented from planting more than 35 percent of the acreage intended for the eligible crop. 
   These criteria have proven to be unworkable in many eastern states, both in terms of program accessibility and timeliness of payments. For individual growers of specialty crops, typically grown on small acreage, a loss of as little as 20% can be devastating, especially given the high per-acre value of these crops. Moreover, the process of verifying area yield reductions is cumbersome and exceedingly time-consuming, resulting in waiting periods of several months or, in some cases, more than a year for payment. 
   Giving the Secretary of Agriculture broader discretion over delivery of NAP program funds will streamline the approval process and make direct assistance available to thousands of farmers whose substantial losses do not meet NAP criteria under the current area trigger. I am pleased that removal of this trigger is among the many valuable reforms in the bill before us today. 
   Finally, I was proud to join several of my Senate colleagues from the Northeast to offer an amendment to provide $60 million for expanded education and outreach for farmers in states with low levels of crop insurance participation, as well as research and development of new crop insurance policies for currently uninsured crops in these states. Our amendment would also set aside $66 million for farmers in underserved states to participate in the bill's proposed risk management pilot project which allows farmers to choose between traditional crop insurance and a direct payment for adopting new risk management practices such as farm diversification, futures contracts and options, creation of conservation buffers, soil erosion control, and irrigation management. While offering increased income to farmers for whom crop insurance has not worked well, the pilot will test whether incentive payments can encourage producers to adopt new risk management strategies that are good for the environment. I thank the distinguished Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture for making this amendment part of the overall package we will vote on today, and I urge the Senate conferees to ensure that this important provision remains in the bill after conference with the House. Otherwise, I will likely oppose the conference report when it comes before the Senate. Together with the substantial new funding for research and development of specialty crop insurance policies, this amendment will ensure that we have a farm policy that is truly national in scope. 
   With the passage of this legislation we will give farmers the tools they need to manage their risk more effectively, and possibly reduce the need for Congress to pass massive farm disaster packages year after year. At the same time, we recognize the contribution and needs of farmers in every region of the country, who not only feed the world but preserve a way of life that makes our nation stronger and protects our precious open spaces from the encroachment of development and urban sprawl. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the Federal Crop Insurance Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am honored to rise today to acknowledge and celebrate the 179th anniversary of Greek Independence. On March 25, 1821, courageous Greeks, poorly armed but imbued with an ancient calling for democracy, initiated a revolution that would successfully end 400 years of oppression by the Ottoman Empire. I am proud to join my distinguished colleagues as a cosponsor of Senator SPECTER's Senate Resolution 251 which designates Saturday ``Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy.'' 
   The achievements of Greek civilization in art, architecture, science, philosophy, mathematics, and literature became legacies for succeeding generations living around the world. But it was the idea of democracy, born in Athens over two thousand five hundred years ago, that signaled the beginning of a lasting revolution to which we as Americans are eternally grateful. 
   As citizens of the United States, we are proud to recognize the contributions of Greek culture in the creation of our great nation. The Founding Fathers, deeply inspired and influenced by Hellenic ideals, developed our representative democracy from the example of the ancient Greeks. As U.S. democracy flourished, its principles inspired citizens in other nations, sparking revolutions across time and space, from France in 1789 to Portugal in 1974. 
   As vital as the culture of ancient Greece was to the formation of our nation, modern Greek culture continues to enrich our society today. I can speak firsthand of the significant contributions that Greek-Americans make in my home state of Rhode Island. They serve our communities in many professions and continue to contribute to the state through their hard work and active citizenship. 
   Greece's commitment to democracy has been essential in fostering stability and supporting the ideals of freedom and equality among its neighbors in the Balkans and in the Mediterranean region. Today, the United States supports Greece in its call for fellowship and peace in the Balkan peninsula and on the divided island of Cyprus. I applaud the Greek people for their commitment to the protection of democratic principles in these regions. 
   Therefore, on the day marking the 179th anniversary of the revolution for independence, I congratulate all Greeks and Greek-Americans and express my appreciation for their contributions and those of their ancestors.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I commend the Senator from New York and the Senator from New Jersey for their great efforts. I thank the chairman. As my colleague so well expressed, there is a tendency to not realize or understand that the Northeast part of the United States has a significant farming industry. We learned that the hard way, in some respects, last fall when we discovered our farmers were in desperate straits because of drought, loss of crops, and environmental conditions that affected them. Today, we are recognizing their standing along with farmers throughout this country, and not only their need but their eligibility now for Federal assistance in times of need. I thank the chairman for his efforts, and I thank my colleagues for working so hard on this. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I commend the Senator from Vermont for his eloquence and his passionate support of this vital legislation. It is vital to the children and to the families of this country. 
   As the Senator pointed out, it has been 11 months since the tragic incident at Columbine High School. Last April 20, we witnessed with horror and revulsion an attack on children who were just going to school. The entire country stood up as one and said: We have to do something. We have to stop this senseless gun violence. We have to create a country in which easy access to firearms and the resulting violence is something of the past. 
   However, it has not stopped. The violence continues every day with tragic consequences throughout this country--in Seattle, WA; in Atlanta, GA; in Los Angeles, CA; in Honolulu, HI; in Ft. Worth, TX; in Sidney, OH; in Wilkinsburg PA; in Mount Morris township in Michigan; and thousands of other places where, regrettably and tragically, gun violence is so common in this country that it doesn't make the front page because the incidents aren't that graphic or that violent. 
   The first anniversary of the tragedy at Columbine High School is just around the corner, April 20. Still, the conference committee on juvenile justice has not yet discharged their duty and sent back a bill that contains common, safe, gun safety measures that were passed by this Senate. In fact, as the Senator from Vermont pointed out, the committee has met only once, last August. For 8 months we have waited. We have waited; the American people have waited. We have waited for commonsense protections that have been frustrated and thwarted 
   by the Republican leadership at the behest of the NRA. They have ignored the will of the American people and the overwhelming desire of the American people to protect the safety of their children and the safety of their communities. 
   I believe the American people have waited long enough. Today, along with my colleagues, Senator BOXER of California, Senator LEAHY, and others, I will introduce a sense-of-the-Senate resolution calling for the juvenile justice conferees to complete and submit the conference report before April 20, the first anniversary of the Columbine shooting, and to include in this conference report the amendments passed by this Senate seeking to limit access to firearms by juveniles, by convicted felons, and by other persons. 
   Will the passage of this legislation stop gun crime in this country? No, it won't. But it will represent a step forward to impose reasonable controls on the easy access to firearms for those who should not have them: Children, criminals, those whose mental capacity is diminished enough so they resort to violence with these weapons. 
   Within the core of this juvenile justice legislation are simple, commonsense approaches to ensure we have a safer society: Closing the gun show loophole, requiring safety locks to be sold with handguns, banning the importation of large capacity ammunition clips, and outlawing juvenile possession of assault weapons. 
   We will bring common sense to our gun laws with these measures and, hopefully, reduce the avalanche of violence that is engulfing so many in this society. 
   In my home State of Rhode Island, in the city of Providence alone, 26 people were murdered in 1999. That is up from 15 in 1998. Firearms were used in the vast majority of the killings in both years: 19 out of the 26 people who were killed last year were killed with firearms, 11 of the 15 the year before. And Providence, my capital, is a small city of roughly around 200,000 people. 
   Last year, when we were talking about Columbine High School, if any Member came to this floor and said: I predict a 6-year-old child will walk into first grade and kill another 6-year-old child with a handgun, we would have been lambasted as extremists, hysterical, provocateurs, irresponsible, reckless. Guess what. It happened. Incidents such as that happen each and every day. 
   Just a few weeks ago in Providence, RI, two young boys were rough-housing with each other--a 17-year-old and a 13-year-old friend--doing what boys have been doing for a long, long time. They were razzing each year, wrestling with each other, seeing who was the most tough. They went on and on and on. One of them got frustrated. Now, when I was younger, that frustration might have led to a punch in the nose, a bloody nose, and some hard feelings, but that was all. Somebody in the crowd had a gun and this young boy recklessly and without thought grabbed that gun just to show how tough he was, pointed the gun at the 13-year-old, pulled the trigger, thinking nothing would happen, and shot that 13-year-old in the head. That shooter, that young man--not a criminal, just a kid rough-housing around in the neighborhood--was so overcome with remorse that he fled to an adjacent backyard and shot himself in the head. 
   That is gun violence in America today. That is the cost of easy access to firearms. These aren't criminals. These were kids doing something stupid. But because they had guns, it resulted in death and destruction. 
   We are not kids here. We are supposed to be adults. We are supposed to be responsible. We are supposed to represent the best values and ideals of this country. That means we must stand up and vote on measures such as this juvenile justice bill. 
   I ask on behalf of the 12 children killed each day by gun violence that we bring this conference bill back to this floor with those reasonable gun control measures included. Someone has to speak for them. Someone must speak for them. Someone must demand these measures come before the Senate. 
   We cannot continue to listen to the siren song of the NRA in this Chamber. We cannot be hypnotized by all the spin and the hype and all the misinformation and misdirection. We have to respond to the reality of kids easily getting handguns and unwittingly and, tragically, killing each other. 
   We have a country in which the homicide rate by handguns far surpasses that of any other country in the world. In Japan, in 1996, there were 15 people killed with handguns, in a country of 126 million people. That is 1 person in every 8.4 million. The ratio in the United States? One person out of every 27,000. What is the difference? Cultural? Genetic? Demographic? They have gun laws that make it difficult for anyone and everyone, willy-nilly, to own handguns. 
   It is the same story the world over. Canada, perhaps the country closest to us in culture, in demographics and ethnicity, is also a country that had a great frontier, a country that had the same kind of challenges we had opening up their great west. It is a country of outdoors men and women; it is a country, in many respects, with the same cultural values we have. Yet in that country, in 1996, 106 people were killed out of a population of 30 million. That is 1 person in every 284,000--many, many, many times fewer people killed by gun violence in a country so similar to ours. The difference? Once again, they have sensible laws that govern access to handguns. 
   We could go on and on. But as long as a criminal can walk into a gun show and buy a gun without a background check and walk out before any type of check can be done, as long as kids can get access to firearms without safety locks on them so they can use them, as we have seen happen too often, as long as it is harder for a kid to open a bottle of aspirin than it is to shoot a gun, because we have childproof tops on aspirin containers, we are going to have these problems. 
   It is our responsibility to act. It is our responsibility to stand up. We have not done that. Time is drawing close to April 20, 1 year after Columbine. I cannot think of a better way, not only to memorialize the victims of that shooting but to give meaning to that senseless tragedy, than for this body and the House to send to the President a gun control measure that will provide the sensible, reasonable controls that are so critical.  
   I see the Senator from California. There is no one in this body who is not only sensitive but more forcefully engaged in this effort than my friend and colleague, Senator BOXER, someone who I am proud to say will cosponsor this resolution, someone I am proud to say will continue her valiant efforts to lead the way for sensible gun control in this country. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this resolution expresses the support of Congress for activities that will raise public awareness of multiple sclerosis. 
   Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, often disabling disease of the central nervous system. Symptoms can range from mild numbness in the limbs to paralysis and blindness. Most people with MS are diagnosed between the ages of 20 and 40, but the unpredictable physical and emotional effects of this debilitating disease can be lifelong. The progress, severity and specific symptoms of MS in any one person cannot yet be predicted, but advances in research and treatment are giving hope to those affected by the disease. It is known that MS afflicts twice as many women as men, however, once an individual is diagnosed with MS, their symptoms can be effectively managed and complications avoided through regular medical care. 
   Nationally, it is estimated that between 250,000 and 350,000 individuals suffer from MS, which is approximately 1 out of every 1,000 people. In Rhode Island, the rate is slightly higher--1.5 out of every 1,000. Over 3,000 individuals and their families in my home state are affected by this disease. 
   It is my hope that through this resolution we can bring greater attention to the devastating effects of this disease, while also building support for additional research. It is through more  intensive research efforts by agencies such as the National Institutes of Health that we will better understand some of the potential causes of this disease, as well as develop more effective methods of treatment, and maybe someday prevention. Indeed, it is only with greater resources that we can build public awareness about MS and enhance our scientific understanding of this mysterious illness. 
   I take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society as well as the Rhode Island Chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society for their encouragement and assistance in developing this important Resolution. It is through their grassroots efforts that individuals suffering from MS can get information about their disease as well as learn more about resources available in their communities, research being conducted, and support services for family members. Their support is essential to those who have been afflicted with MS, and I hope that through this resolution the Congress can assist in bolstering these important efforts. 
   In closing, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this important resolution to raise awareness and encourage people to become more educated about this debilitating disease. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank Chairman HATCH and Senator LEAHY for all of the hard work they've put into, and continue to put into, the judicial nomination process. 
   I also recognize Senator LOTT for making a commitment to bring the Paez and Berzon nominations to the Floor for a vote by March 15, over the protests of certain members of his caucus. 
   First, a process comment. One of the most important duties of the United States Senate, as envisioned by our founding fathers, is the confirmation of Presidential appointments. Article II, Section 2, of the Constitution states that the President shall nominate and ``appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States'' with the ``Advice and Consent of the Senate.'' This is one of our enumerated duties in the Constitution, and to my mind, we have egregiously failed to uphold this duty in the case of Judge Richard Paez. 
   More often than not, nominations move through the Senate the way they're supposed to. However, in this case, the system has broken down. As a result, considerable public attention is being paid to this nomination, especially among members of the Latino community, because the Senate is not doing its job. This is troubling. In regards to nominations, the public rightly expects us to move judiciously and expeditiously and without regard to politics. 
   No nominee for judicial office should have to wait four years to have his appointment confirmed. Allowing Judge Richard Paez and his family to wait four years for this body to perform its constitutional duty is inexcusable. 
   Judge Paez has opened up his life and resume for our examination, so that we can make a very important decision about his qualifications for a very important job, lifetime tenure on the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. This is appropriate. Judge Paez should be subject to serious scrutiny by this body. 
   But no citizen of this country should have to wait three Congresses for this body to act. Just as he has presented his qualifications to us to the best of his ability, we need to make a decision about these qualifications to the best of our ability in a timely fashion. 
   In the private sector, how many of us would subject ourselves to the process that Judge Paez has subjected himself in order to be on the Board of Directors or the CEO of one of America's top companies. Most of us would choose not to go through that process at all. 
   And that is exactly my point, we should not make this process so painful that America's best and brightest attorneys are unwilling to subject themselves or their families to what has become an increasingly unpleasant and distressing process. We should be doing everything that we can to encourage people like Judge Paez to aspire to be members of our judicial branch. This,  despite lower pay and greater responsibility than most lawyers have in private practice. 
   As the Chief Judge of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals wrote in a March 2, 2000 letter to Senators HATCH and LEAHY, the Ninth Circuit Court has had a 300% increase in workload with no increase in active judges. 
   Unfortunately, the Paez and Berson nominations are indicative of a greater systemic breakdown that should be disturbing to both Republicans and Democrats. Even Justice Rehnquist has felt it necessary to comment on the problems being caused by greater federal court workloads, and too few judges. 
   Second, it's clear that the President has nominated lawyers of extraordinary ability when it comes to Judge Richard Paez and Ms. Marsha Berzon. Both have received the American Bar Associations's highest rating (``well-qualified'') and we are fortunate that these individuals have been willing to go through such a grueling federal judicial nomination process thus far. 
   I ask my colleagues today take their constitutional duty seriously and vote for these nominees on the basis of their objective qualifications, and not on the basis of petty politics. This process is much too important to the citizens of this great democracy to do otherwise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I introduce a Resolution which would express the support of Congress for activities that will raise public awareness of multiple sclerosis. 
   Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, often disabling disease of the central nervous system. Symptoms can range from mild numbness in the limbs to paralysis and blindness. Most people with MS are diagnosed between the ages of 20 and 40, but the unpredictable physical and emotional effects of this debilitating disease can be lifelong. The progress, severity and specific symptoms of MS in any one person cannot yet be predicted, but advances in research and treatment are giving hope to those affected by the disease. It is known that MS afflicts twice as many women as men, however, once an individual is diagnosed with MS their symptoms can be effectively managed and complications avoided through regular medical care. 
   Nationally, it is estimated that between 250,000 and 350,000 individuals  suffer from MS, which is approximately 1 out of every 1,000 people. In Rhode Island, the rate is slightly higher--1.5 out of every 1,000. Over 3,000 individuals and their families in my home state are affected by this disease. 
   It is my hope that through this resolution we can bring greater attention to the devastating affects of this disease, while also building support for additional research. It is through more intensive research efforts by agencies such as the National Institutes of Health that we will better understand some of the potential causes of this disease, as well as develop more effective methods of treatment, and maybe someday prevention. Indeed, it is only with greater resources that we can build public awareness about MS and enhance our scientific understanding of this mysterious illness. 
   I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society as well as the Rhode Island Chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society for their encouragement and assistance in developing this important Resolution. It is through their grassroots efforts that individuals suffering from MS can get information about their disease as well as learn more about resources available in their communities, research being conducted, and support services for family members. Their support is essential to those who have been afflicted with MS, and I hope that through this resolution the Congress can assist in bolstering these important efforts. 
   In closing, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this important Resolution to raise awareness and encourage people to become more educated about this debilitating disease.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Surely. I yield 1 minute, or Senator KENNEDY does. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the Kennedy amendment. Senator KENNEDY has focused on one of the critical aspects of education reform in the United States; that is, improving the quality of teachers in this country. Teachers want this kind of assistance. If you ask them, they are universally disappointed in their opportunities to improve their skills as teachers. 
   Just a few days ago, in this debate we supported, in large part, Senator COLLINS' amendment to allow increased tax preferences for educational courses teachers might take. But that is just the surface. The way to reinvigorate and reform schools in this country is to improve the professional development in the classroom--not in graduate schools, not in taking correspondence courses, but getting those teachers in classrooms watching other qualified teachers, giving them the opportunity to participate with their principals in developing curricula, developing their own skills and their own attributes. 
   That is what the Kennedy legislation does. It calls for the incorporation in our schools of professional development that is embedded within the curriculum. It is consistent, sustained, long-term, throughout the academic year--indeed, throughout the entire year. 
   What is happening today? The reality is, teachers spend between 1 hour and 8 hours during the academic year on professional development. Most times, it is gathering in a big hall listening to a lecturer who the superintendent of the system thinks makes sense, but in some cases the teachers are wondering why they are at that location. 
   We can change that. Indeed, we must change that. Unless 
   we improve the quality of teaching--and I agree wholeheartedly with Senator MURRAY; we have excellent teachers in America--we will not respond to the challenges of this new century to prepare, in public schools, the best educated citizens of this country. Indeed, our first obligation has to be this effort to reform and reinvigorate and reignite the quality of excellence in our public education system throughout the country. 
   The underlying proposal does not do that. It essentially siphons off dollars to those, principally wealthy, Americans who choose to send their children to private schools. Our obligation, I believe very fervently, is to ensure there is a real choice so that, indeed, there are excellent public schools and an American family can choose those excellent public schools or a private, independent or parochial school. But until we have excellent public education throughout this country, we are failing in a fundamental obligation we have to our country and to our citizens. 
   One of the best ways to assure excellent public education is the way that has been suggested by the amendment of the Senator from Massachusetts, and that is to provide professional development that is sustained, embedded in a classroom, that calls upon mentoring, that calls upon all the things we are learning from the real world. 
   We are learning from observing places such as district II in New York City, which is committed to this type of professional development. I had a chance to visit with a school in that district and listen and watch the teachers as they discussed among themselves the issues that were critical as they developed new curricula, as they talked about new strategies. This is what is going to improve the quality of our teaching. When we do this, we will improve the quality of education throughout the entire country. 
   This is also what we heard at hearings during consideration of the ESEA. We heard experts from around the country, teachers from around the country, coming to tell us they need more support for this type of professional development. If we are really, fundamentally asking ourselves how we can improve education in this country, it is not through a tax credit device that will essentially subsidize, on average, wealthy Americans to send their children to private schools; it is investing in teachers in our public schools so they will be able to educate this generation of Americans to continue the leadership role of this Nation in the world in this new century. 
   I emphatically and fervently support the Kennedy amendment. I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I respect the Senator's efforts to try to improve education. We may very well disagree on the philosophy. 
   In specific response to his question about the Joint Tax Committee studies, I think there is a difference between coverage and effect. The coverage might include a broad range of American families, from the very wealthiest to low-income families, but the effects--who gets the benefits--are decisively skewed toward very wealthy Americans. 
   That same tax analysis in 1998 showed that 7 percent of families who have children in private schools who use this provision will receive 52 percent of the tax benefit and the other 93 percent of the families will receive 48 percent. 
   Frankly, the way, as we all realize, the tax structure is established, tax credits and tax benefits are more beneficial to the higher income level, unless  they are particularly targeted to low-income citizens. These are not. 
   Essentially, what we have is, yes, low-income families and medium-income families will, in fact, be able to get some benefits. It has been estimated that over 4 years, this benefit to the average family is about $20. The benefit for very wealthy Americans will be significantly more. 
   Again, this might be more anecdotal than analytical. If you look at the population of students going to private schools, they generally come from upper-middle-income to upper-income families because of the nature of funding. 
   I know the Senator wants his time. Let me make a quick point. When we start making these comparisons between higher education and elementary and secondary education, not only do we have a principle difference, i.e., we have a fundamental obligation to elementary and secondary education, do we have the same to higher education? We can disagree about that. 
   The other thing we have to do is put it in context. The tax benefits in higher education are on top of Pell grants which are specifically directed at low-income parents. They are really, if you will, icing on the cake, and the cake is really Pell grants, Stafford loans--a whole panoply of higher education benefits which we supported for years and years. To make the transfer or analogy of it is just like what we do for higher education, it is not only philosophically questionable but also, in terms of the context, questionable. I thank the Senator for his time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am not familiar with the data about New York parochial schools, but I am very eager to look at it, if the Senator will provide it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Second, it is one of those things: What do you measure? Do you measure parochial schools in New York City or are you measuring all the private schools, very exclusive schools? All I can speak to with great compulsion and experience is in my home State of Rhode Island, generally speaking, the parochial schools mirror some of the public school systems. But when you go to some of the private schools, that is not quite the case. I suggest if it is not limited to parochial schools, it is going to be taken advantage of. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, first, I will speak with respect to Senator BINGAMAN's amendment. Let me commend the Senator for his efforts not only today but throughout his career in the Senate to ensure that accountability is a central part of Federal educational legislation. 
   Senator BINGAMAN, in 1994, was one of the leaders in this body with respect to the issue of accountability. At that time, I was serving in the other body. Together we worked at the conference on accountability provisions in the 1994 reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. As a result of the efforts of Senator BINGAMAN and others, we were able, for the first time, to begin to focus significant attention on the issue of accountability. In fact, the 1994 reauthorization, together with Goals 2000 legislation, accelerated and encouraged a movement throughout the States to develop standards. Practically every State in the country today has standards. 
   We now have the opportunity to begin measuring how well schools are doing. That is at the heart, I believe, of Senator BINGAMAN's approach today. We need not only to measure how well they are doing but then hold States and localities accountable for those results. 
   What has happened in the last several years is that the States have not had the resources to fully exploit the opportunities to measure schools against standards and then improve those schools. Half of the schools in the country that are problematic, according to State standards, have not been able to have access to teams of improvement; they have not had access to the support they need to make themselves better. In addition, they have not had access to the professional 
   development which they need to enhance the capabilities of their teachers. All of these efforts together suggest the American people's money would be best spent by devoting time and attention to accountability. 
   Again, I think the approach that the Senator from New Mexico is taking is exactly on target. As we spend $8 billion a year on title I, we should insist that the States live up to their responsibility to use these funds wisely as measured by the performance of their students. The best way we can do that is to give them the resources and, again, the impetus to take stock of their schools and then to apply corrective measures, remedial measures. 
   They have not been able to do that. I don't believe it is because they don't want to do it; I believe it is because they have not been able to find the resources to carry out this mission. Senator BINGAMAN's amendment would give them access to these resources. It will give them access not in a restrictive way but in a very open-ended way so they can pick and choose the best device to use in their particular school to ensure that school performance improves. That, again, is why I believe we are all here. 
   We have a special obligation at the national level to assist, particularly, low-income schools. Regrettably and unfortunately, many of the low-performing schools are low-income schools. Therefore, this effort to help support States to identify low-performing schools and to bring them up to the standards of the State is entirely consistent with the purpose of Federal legislation, which is to assist low-income students to have access to the opportunities that more affluent students and their families take for granted. 
   I believe what the Senator is proposing is entirely consistent with what we should be about, but also it will go to the heart of leveraging all of our programs and all the State programs to ensure we accomplish the ultimate goal that lies before the Senate of ensuring that every child in this country has access to excellent public education. 
   Coincidentally, both Senator BINGAMAN and I and others today are beginning the markup in committee of the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. We will be pursuing these issues within the context of that legislation. Today, when we have a bill in this Chamber that purports to be a way to assist education, elementary and secondary education, in the United States, we have to seize this opportunity to point out that the heart of our efforts has to be the reinforcement of what we have already begun years ago, which is to develop within the States the capacity to evaluate their schools based upon their standards and then to intervene successfully to fix these schools. 
   Before we go on to more attenuated means to help education in the United States--such as tax credits and other proposals--we have a primary responsibility and, today, an opportunity to do what we started to do in 1994 to give the States the resources, further incentives to evaluate their schools, identify the schools that are failing, to step in with their choice of intervention strategies, and to fix the schools in America. 
   There are over 8,000 schools in this country that are not meeting State standards. Those figures come from our Department of Education. What is preventing the States and the localities from stepping in right now? There might be a host of issues, but one thing we can do to accelerate that intervention is to support the Bingaman amendment, to give them resources and give them the clarion call to step in and fix the schools so we can declare--as I hope we can at the end of this debate and certainly I hope at the end of the debate on the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--that we are not only committed but we are on a path to ensure that every school in this country is providing every American child with the opportunity to succeed. Every public school in this country is doing that. 
   I commend the Senator and I thank him for yielding time to me. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask to speak pursuant to the unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I will speak this evening on an issue of great importance to the country and every family in America. That is the issue of education. 
   For the past 4 months, the Republicans and Democrats on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee have been working to come up with a bipartisan approach to the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Sadly, those efforts have collapsed and we are being presented with a Republican bill, the Straight A's Act, which is essentially a block granting of critical programs and the amassing of Federal resources to be distributed with little accountability by the States. 
   This issue is of great importance because education is what I believe is fueling the great economic progress we are making today. The 5-percent growth in productivity in the last quarter recognizes the combination of American technology, which is a product of our ideas, our education, and the skills and talents of the American people that have been forged in the classrooms of America. 
   Just as importantly, this recognition of the centrality and importance of education is shared by every American because they the mothers and fathers of this country, recognize that the future of their families, the future of their children, are dependent almost exclusively on how well they are educated. As a result, we cannot take lightly the proposals that are before the Senate with regard to the educational policy of the United States. 
   There are some who do not think the National Government has a role in education. I disagree. We recognize, of course, the primacy of States and localities in terms of forging educational policy, but we do have a role at the national level. We have a role of providing both encouragement and support for local innovation and also support to overcome local inertia. 
   We have seen that played out throughout our history. We have seen a situation where years ago the States were inattentive to the needs of low-income students, particularly minority students. That is one of the primary impulses for the 1965 Elementary and Secondary Education Act. We have seen in the past where States were indifferent to the education of students with disabilities, and we acted properly and appropriately to do that. So we do have this national role and we have to carry it out conscientiously, recognizing that public education is the bulwark of our society and our country. 
   Ninety percent of our students attend public schools. Public schools offer not only educational benefits but are the devices that bring us together, the common ground, the area in which one can enter and prepare to seize the opportunities of life without regard to race, creed, or ethnicity. 
   It is this public education system that we must enhance, reform, and reinvigorate. I argue that the approach to do that is not through block grants. The approach is a careful consideration of the appropriate Federal initiatives, both in terms of resources and in terms of programs, that will help stimulate reform at the local level and help overcome the inertia and the political gridlock we see every day at the localities and at the States just as they see on certain issues in Washington. 
   Again, I yield, as do all my colleagues, that the Federal Government is the junior partner in this partnership for 
   education in America. We supply roughly 7 percent of all the resources; the States, the cities, and the towns supply 93 percent of the resources. However, we can do much, particularly in the area of focusing assistance on the neediest children and also, as I said before, to help invigorate our school system, to help accelerate reform. 
   Money isn't everything; it is vitally important, but we also need a sense of direction or purpose, of national statements about what is critical to the Nation as well as critical to localities and to States. That, too, is part and parcel to our deliberations about the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   We should be providing resources for local communities. One of the problems with the educational policy in the United States is it is tied so closely to property tax that we can witness situations where good school systems, particularly school systems in urban areas that were models of efficiency and expertise decades ago, have fallen on hard times because their property base has evaporated. People have moved to the suburbs; the industries have left the central city and moved out. We can help, and we do that principally through title I programs. 
   Again, as we help with resources at the local level, we cannot give up the idea also that we have to provide this spark of innovation, the spark of reform that is so critical to the efforts. I believe also that this is recognized by many people at the State and local level, that our Goals 2000 initiative several years ago helped essentially start a reform process that was inchoate at the State and local level and many places that needed resources, even if there was a sense of reform. This effort, this identification of reform together with resources helped stimulate productive efforts that are improving the quality of education. But I also would say we have a long way to go before we can satisfy ourselves that every student in America, every child in America, has access to excellent public schools. That should be our goal, a goal we must insist upon. 
   Again, I am disappointed that efforts over the last several months to try to forge bipartisan compromise on the Elementary and Secondary Education Act have failed, apparently, for the moment. Tomorrow in the committee we begin to debate a legislative proposal that is simply abdicating the responsibilities of the National Government to the States without any real accountability. That is a wrong approach. 
   We have seen that because we have seen what the States have done in contrast to what the Federal Government has done in some critical areas of concern. I am not trying to suggest there is any type of nefarious plot at the States, but we all have to recognize they are under very special pressures in terms of allocating funds, in terms of local problems, a host of local issues that complicate their politics, and we have an opportunity sometimes to avoid those internecine fights that go on and provide direction that they welcome and they, in fact, in many cases expect. 
   One aspect of this debate about Federal versus State perspectives is a report prepared by the General Accounting Office in 1998. It was found Federal aid was seven times more targeted to poor students than State programs overall. It found our effort to reach out and help low-income students was disproportionately greater than State efforts. I think you have to ask yourself, logically, had we not acted in 1965 with title 
   I, and in Congresses subsequent to that date to help out low-income students, both in center-city areas and in rural areas, would they enjoy the limited success they have had to date? I am not suggesting we succeeded in that arena. 
   I suggest you might find that same proportion of funding, those who are politically powerful in States, those suburban areas, those areas that themselves with property tax can fund schools, would do much better. In fact,  our situation in center-city and rural areas would be much more severe without specified targeted Federal assistance--not a block grant, specified targeted Federal assistance. 
   I should point out in the last reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--I was a Member of the other body at that time--we were aware of some of the shortcomings and limitations and inhibitions in the title I program, and we made changes to streamline it and make it more effective, as we did with several other programs. The results from the last few years seem to suggest this combination of more programmed and efficient Federal support, together with State initiatives, have led to real improvements. We want to continue that partnership and certainly those improvements. 
   There is another aspect, too, that affects the State and Federal Governments. I think sometimes we sit back and say: The States have it right; they know how to allocate and distribute funds. It turns out in over one-third of the States in these United States, people are suing the States claiming they are unfairly distributing their school aid. If we are going to turn around and give moneys to such a State without real accountability, without real direction, we, frankly, are running right into the teeth of those suits that are saying the States do not know how to spend their money fairly, wisely, or well; they are disadvantaging large parts of the population. 
   I think there are many reasons why we can argue with great credibility and force that Federal programs and Federal resources, national policies, can complement, supplement, help States do things that, because of politics, because of resource limitations, because of a host of reasons, they would not do of their own volition. 
   There is another issue, too, and it becomes, frankly, an issue that is much more specific to us today than it was 10 years ago or 20 years ago. We are in a global economy. Our competition is no longer between Rhode Island and South Carolina or Pennsylvania and Utah. It is between students in Singapore and in Japan and around the world versus American students. To suggest at this time there is not a national need for some direction, some support, some help to States to move forward their educational process is to disregard the global nature of the world we face today. 
   There are examples, frankly, of where we have acted successfully with federally directed programs to set national policies with national resources to facilitate State reform. One I mentioned previously is Goals 2000. I participated in the drafting of this legislation in 1994. I would have liked to have gone much further in terms of accountability, in terms of many other things. But the sense of the Congress and the administration was let's get into the States' resources with a direction to begin to start reforming or helping their reform efforts. That took place. In fact, it has been acknowledged that Goals 2000 has been a force for reform in places such as Texas and Georgia and Vermont and 
   elsewhere. Indeed, in 1998, in another GAO report, State and local officials stated:  
   Goals 2000 funding provided valuable assistance and that, without this funding, some reform efforts would not have been accomplished or would not have been accomplished as quickly.  
   Again, had we simply back in 1994 said take this money and do what you like, without some structure, some framework, it would not have been as successful, I believe, as it has been to date. 
   There is another area where we can play a critical role--it is a role we have played in the past--and that is educational technology. National investment in educational technology since 1994, in programs such as the Technological Literacy Challenge Fund and the Technology Innovation Challenge Grants, as well as the E-Rate, have led to a dramatic increase in the number of schools connected to the Internet. Again, these are very specific targeted national programs. Between 1994 and 1998, Internet access in public schools increased from 35 to 89 percent of schools. The percentage of public school instruction rooms with Internet access also increased during this time period from 3 percent in 1994 to 51 percent in 1998. 
   High poverty schools, which have long lagged behind wealthier schools in Internet access, were as likely to have Internet access as low-poverty-level schools by the fall of 1998 because of these initiatives--again, appropriate. We are not supplanting State and local efforts, but we are identifying a national need to wire up to the Internet the children in the classroom, providing resources, direction. It gets done. It succeeds. 
   There is still a need, in fact, for additional effort in that regard. That is why we are missing a real opportunity in this reauthorization to build upon the success of our technology initiatives. In fact, the gap between high- and low-poverty schools and the percentage of classrooms with Internet access does not seem to be stabilized. It seems to be a widening; there is a bit of widening at the gap. We have to continue to work to make sure that gap does not exist. 
   My colleague from Maryland, Senator MIKULSKI, is often quoted talking about the digital divide; the fact that affluent students enjoy computer access at home and in classrooms. Low-income students do not have that opportunity. In the information age that digital divide could be decisive. So we have an opportunity to work now to build on prior success to ensure we truly close the digital divide. 
   There is another area--this one, I think, is very emblematic of the dangers of reflexively shifting from targeted programs to block grants--and that is school libraries. In 1965, Congress enacted legislation in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act which included specific provisions to assist school libraries to buy library material, principally books. But in 1981, with the advent of the Reagan administration, this specific program was thrown into a large block grant. 
   Now what has happened? What happened is all the material that was bought in 1965 through the late 1960s and 1970s is still on the shelves and has not been replaced because when this library program was thrown into a block grant, local pressures took out the support to buy library books. It always seemed there was something else to crowd it out, some other immediate problem. As a result, what I believe is a strong national thought that children in our schools should have up-to-date, modern library books has withered away, and we can see the proof on the shelves of school libraries throughout this country. 
   When I was talking about this issue several years ago, a librarian in a school in Arizona sent me a book. The title was ``The Constitution of the United States,'' by James Beck. But what I thought was interesting is that there was a foreword by the President of the United States, Calvin Coolidge. The book was written in 1924 and was still on the shelves in 1993. 
   I went to law school. I think there were a couple of amendments to the Constitution after 1924. 
   I would be hard pressed if I were a student in that school in Arizona to confirm or deny that fact. 
   There is another book found in Boston entitled ``Planets, Stars, and Space'' which noted:  
   Of course, the trip (to the moon) cannot yet be made. ..... It may be necessary to establish a giant artificial moon or satellite a thousand miles or so above the earth, from which to launch the moon rocket.  
   That is copyright 1957, and that was in a school library recently. 
   From my own home State, there was in a school library a book entitled ``Ms. MD'' which stated only men could enroll in Brown Medical School, and the tuition--this really dates it--was $2,800 a year. 
   The effort to block grant the library program led to the deterioration and destruction of the library program, and as a result there are thousands of schools across the country that have books so out of date that if parents saw them, they would recall their child. 
   I hope we can change it. In this authorization, contrary to block grant, we can try to develop another library approach to assist libraries in buying not just books but CDs and all the media we need for an information age. 
   The other presumption is--in addition to the fact there is a presumption in some quarters that the States know how to spend the money--all of the successes are because of local initiatives. The reality is there are too many  failing schools in America, and the people directly responsible for these schools--we all admit it here--are the States and localities. I think that somewhat undercuts this notion of infallibility at the local level and supports the notion that at the national level, our ideas and our initiatives and complementary activities have a place and a purpose. 
   There are about 8,000 schools across the country which are failing their own standards set by their States--not national standards but State standards. Ask yourself: What is happening? Why are these schools not being reformed? 
   What has happened in our proposal, and I hope we can deal with it in the ESEA, is we are asking for more accountability by the States. We are asking them to tell us: What are you going to do about these 8,000 schools? How are you going to fix them? Do you need additional resources? 
   We are not trying to be prescriptive--one way to do it--but we want accountability. That, too, is going to be decisively lost if we simply turn over large block grants to Governors and say do what you will because doing what they will has led to 8,000 schools across this country failing their students, failing the parents, and failing the Nation. We should not tolerate that. 
   There is another area that is important that represents, in many cases, the clash of conflicting priorities at the local level and results in a poor educational environment for students. That is the issue of school modernization. There are schools in this country that are literally falling apart or so out of date that they impair the educational experience of children. 
   There are schools in my communities in Rhode Island that were built in 1876 and in 1898. In 1876, George Armstrong Custer lost a battle at the Little Big Horn. Much has changed since then, except children are still walking and busing to this school in a community in Rhode Island. 
   In the wintertime, the way they regulate the heat is they open the windows because once they turn that boiler on, it gets so hot that the only thing they can do to cool it down to room temperature is to open the windows. There is a trailer outside, but the trailer is not a good place to put computers because it is not fully air conditioned, not well ventilated. This is one example. These examples are replete throughout the entire country. 
   In Rhode Island, 81 percent of schools report a need to upgrade or repair a building to good overall condition. Again, this is an area where national assistance can be very helpful. There is not a weekend--and I go home every weekend--where I do not run into someone--a parent, a school committee person--who says: You know what, we sure could use some help fixing up our schools. 
   This is not some plot hatched in Washington, DC, to take over elementary and secondary education. This is what people intimately involved in elementary and secondary education in our communities want us to do, but we will not be able to do it if we simply bundle up the money in a block grant and give it to the Governors. 
   I talked a good bit about some of the problems we have in our school system, some of the problems we have in terms of our response in the Senate to these issues. But I would be remiss if I did not mention some of the good news because of our efforts over the last several years. 
   It turns out that high school students are taking tougher mathematical and science courses because this notion of increased standards which began with the Governors' conference years ago and certainly were highlighted by the efforts of President Clinton, certainly underscored by the Goals 2000 Act, certainly reemphasized in the last reauthorization, this is leading to students taking tougher mathematical and science courses. 
   These increased participation rates are cutting across different lines of income, ethnicity, and race, which are very good signs for our country. Student mathematical achievement is improving. Between 1982 and 1986, students improved their achievement in mathematics, as measured by the National Assessment of Educational Progress. 
   There is some good news, and it is the result not of the absence of the National Government from policy or solely because of the presence of national programs; it is because of this partnership that has been worked out, somewhat fluidly and sometimes roughly, over several decades between local initiatives and national complementary initiatives. 
   I could go on about student achievement. It is improving but not enough. Certainly, in international comparisons, we are not where we want and must be. 
   The other item is we have seen some of these improvements in math and science and some in part--I do not want to overstate this--might be attributable to a specific Federal national initiative, and that is the Eisenhower Professional Development Program established in 1984 to increase the quality of math and science teaching by giving math and science teachers opportunities to develop their expertise and understanding and to develop their techniques to teach; again, part of what I hope is good news about improving mathematical scores in this country. 
   Had we been presented with a bill in the HELP Committee 
   which would have given us the opportunity to talk seriously about issues of programmatic content and national priorities, there are some things I would have liked to emphasize. I will mention them. 
   First, we have to improve the quality of teaching in the United States. We just had an amendment by my colleague, the Senator from Maine, Ms. COLLINS. It was a very good amendment because it talked about allowing teachers to get more tax benefits for their investment in professional development, for taking courses in graduate school, and buying material. That is a good effort. Frankly, that is just the surface. 
   If we want to improve the performance of teachers in our schools, we have to go into the classroom. We do not have to send the teachers necessarily to graduate school. We have to go into the classroom. We have to embed professional development as part of the daily life of the school. That is not being done across this country. 
   What we have in many places is what I experienced as a child when I went to school, and that is the proverbial teacher's institute. It was the one day we celebrated because there was no school or no holiday. They just took the day off. Teachers went to a big conference center, listened to a speaker, chatted about all sorts of things, and that was professional development. 
   It does not work that way, particularly nowadays. They have to make professional development part and parcel of the school. They have to have senior teachers and principals involved in the professional development of their teachers. They have to have the flexibility to get substitute teachers into the classroom so teachers can get out and observe other teachers teaching. This is a national priority. 
   We should be able to give the States both financial assistance and a sense of direction about the best techniques, if you will, give them a spectrum, a menu of things from which they can choose. But we cannot do that if our fixation is just ship the money down to the Governor. We have to improve the quality of professional development. 
   A 1998 study in California found that the more teachers were engaged in ongoing curriculum-centered professional development, holding school conditions and student characteristics constant, the higher the students' mathematical achievements. 
   We know from the data, if you can embed professional development, put it in the life of the school, you can improve performance. That is what it is all about, not winning debating points but ensuring that the performance of students in the classrooms of this country improves and improves dramatically. 
   The teachers themselves recognize this. One in five talk about the fact they need more professional development, that what is being required of them by the States is inadequate. In fact, I believe the statistic would probably be higher if you pressed and probed more. So that is an area to which I would like to be able to devote attention. I am sure I will offer an amendment in the committee, but it is starkly different than the approach of simply shrugging our shoulders and saying: Let the Government figure it out.  
   We have ideas. We have an obligation to take what we see across this country and try to move States forward to do something that would improve the quality of education. 
   There is another area that is important. That area is parental involvement. The national PTA did a survey of public school parents and found that 91 percent believe it is ``extremely important'' for parents to be involved in their children's school, but more than half of the parents stated that schools need direction about how to make parents true partners in their children's education. 
   The overwhelming view of parents is they need to be more involved in the school. But a significant number say the schools are deaf to their concerns. They do not have the programs or the attitudes or the policies that will get parents into the schools. 
   This is particularly the case when you get to areas where there are low-income students because the reality is many times their parents have an unsuccessful educational experience. It is not as if school was a good place for them. There are also practical problems in many urban areas, and some rural areas, about language difficulties, about reaching out to parents in their own language to get them involved in the lives of their children. We have not, as a nation, been able to develop the kinds of policies and programs that assist States and localities in making parents real partners in their children's education. I hope we could do that. I hope we could do that by using ESEA to start thinking about ways we can jump-start parental involvement at the local level. 
   Again, you can always fall back to the point: Why is this not happening if the States have the vision, the resources, and the commitment to do it? Why should we tolerate it continuing in such a deplorable way if there is a lack of resources, vision, or commitment at the local level when we know it should and must be done? 
   As I mentioned, I would love very much to be able to take out some of those antiquated books on the library shelves of America and replace them with modern books that talk about the fact that we have landed on the Moon, that include all the amendments of the U.S. Constitution. Again, we will not be able to do that if we are simply block granting our educational dollars. 
   There is also a program that is based upon one State's experience helping another State. The States have long been described as laboratories of innovation and experiment. But I think we have a job, and that is to disseminate all that good work, making it available throughout the Nation, giving other 
   States the incentive or the ideas or the resources to put in place what some States have succeeded so well in doing. 
   One program in Rhode Island is called the Child Opportunity Zones, COZs. These are places within schools that bring together all sorts of social services, mental health services, child care services, and social work services. It is designed to assist the family, recognizing that the success of a child is dependent not only on his or her innate talent, and the teachers and the facilities, but also in the support and the participation of the whole family. If the family has problems, that child will likely have problems. Indeed, one of the things that has changed since my education is that family life in so many parts of this country has been terribly complicated by social problems, health care problems, issues that are not educational but decisively impact on the ability of a young child to learn. 
   I am encouraged that the President has sent up his budget proposing increases in Head Start. I have colleagues such as CHRIS DODD who are working valiantly to improve early childhood education. All of these things coming together recognize the fact that today, in so many places, it is not the educational problems holding children back; it is the health problem; it is the mental health problem; it is a host of problems that are outside the strict purview of what we used to think of as educational policy. 
   This COZ program is very successful in Rhode Island. It brings these disciplines to one place in the school. It gives families easy access to all of these disciplines. 
   Once again, this is an example of how the experience of one State--highlighted, illustrated, and disseminated by national legislation--can benefit the entire country. I would like very much to be able to work on that. 
   Finally, we come back to a major issue which will preoccupy all of us. That is this issue of accountability. Block grants, without accountability, are an abdication of our responsibility not only to have good educational policy but to the taxpayers. We cannot hand over millions of dollars with the assumption that States and localities are doing it right, when we know in some cases they do not invest enough in low-income education, that in some cases States and localities will not provide the kind of innovative change that is necessary for this new century. 
   We have to work hard to ensure we have accountability standards that work. I know Senator BINGAMAN has been a champion of this issue in the Senate. I worked with him as a Member of the other body in our reauthorization of the prior Elementary and Secondary Education Act. I anticipate, if we have a chance--and I hope we do--that both in committee and on the floor we will push hard for accountability. So we have a lot of work to do. It is national work. We simply cannot walk away from it. 
   Unfortunately, the approach that I see the Republican majority taking is effectively walking away from it, to hand it off to the States, to step back and say it is not our job, not our role, when, in fact, we can and should be a partner, the junior partner but a partner, in this effort to improve education throughout the United States. 
   We have made progress. Statistics are encouraging in relation to student performance, but we will give up this progress, I fear, if we do not innovate, if we do not continue to support local initiatives, and if we do not continue to try 
   to overcome the local inertia that leads to 8,000 failing schools, that leads to a malapportionment of dollars between poor students and more affluent students. 
   It is a national role that we have long had. It is increasingly a national priority, as we face a world of international competition, as we face a world where the future of our families literally depends upon the quality of the education that our children receive. 
   I hope that in this great debate we will, in fact, be able to talk about libraries, talk about child opportunity zones, talk about improving the accountability, and talk about how we can put technology into classrooms, not simply to walk away from this issue with the assumption that the States can and will do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 264, submitted earlier by Senators LOTT, DASCHLE, MOYNIHAN, STEVENS, and BYRD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and, finally, any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Handgun Safety and Registration Act of 2000, which would enable law enforcement agencies nationwide to more easily trace handguns used in crime, and provide background checks and registration by law enforcement of all primary and secondary transfers of handguns, including retail sales, Internet sales, gun shows, and all other private transfers. This legislation is supported by Handgun Control, Inc., the Violence Policy Center, the NAACP, and Physicians for Social Responsibility. 
   Many Americans are unaware that there is a successful federal weapons registration system already in place under the 1934 National Firearms Act (NFA). The NFA requires registration of all machine guns, short-barrel shotguns and short-barrel rifles, silencers, bombs, grenades, and other specialized weapons. The NFA is successfully and efficiently administered by the Department of the Treasury's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF). 
   The Handgun Safety and Registration Act would require the registration of all handguns under the NFA within one year of enactment. I know some of my colleagues may question why this bill is needed. First, the bill would help law enforcement more effectively trace handguns used in crime by making registration data available on-line to state and local law enforcement agencies. Tracing methods used today are extremely cumbersome and favor the criminal over the police. When a gun used to commit a crime is recovered, a state or local law enforcement agency contacts ATF with the name of the manufacturer and the serial number of the handgun--if it has not been removed by the criminal. ATF in turn  contacts the manufacturer, which provides the name of the wholesale or retail dealer to whom the handgun was sold. ATF then contacts the dealer to obtain the name of the individual or another retail dealer who purchased the handgun. 
   All too often, this is where the trail goes cold, and another gun crime may go unsolved. If the individual handgun owner has sold the gun to another person in a private sale, there is no way for law enforcement to follow the path of the handgun without time-consuming detective work and a good deal of luck. Subsequent private transfers or gun show sales are similarly unrecorded, making law enforcement's job even more difficult. Even before the first retail sale, law enforcement is completely dependent upon the record keeping of gun manufacturers and gun dealers to follow the trail of a handgun from manufacture to criminal use. There is no law enforcement database of handgun production or sales in the United States. The Handgun Safety and Registration Act would give the advantage back to the police by making handgun registration data available to law enforcement in an easily accessible format. 
   Mr. President, in addition to improving law enforcement's tracing capabilities, the Handgun Safety and Registration Act would help prevent handguns from ending up in the possession of people who are likely to commit gun crimes. The bill would require registration of all handguns, including those currently in private possession, and would make it a felony for any person to transfer a handgun to another individual without prior law enforcement approval. As it currently does for all NFA weapons, ATF would conduct a background check on the transferee through the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), the Treasury Enforcement Communications System (TECS), and the National Law Enforcement Tracking System (NLETS). This would provide a clear incentive for all handgun owners and dealers to exercise great caution when they choose to sell or otherwise transfer a handgun to another person. 
   It is my hope that by requiring registration of all handguns under the National Firearms Act, we can give law enforcement officials the tools to conduct faster and more reliable tracing of handguns used in crime, and prevent handguns from falling into criminal hands in the first place. The Handgun Safety and Registration Act of 2000 would accomplish these goals without restricting in any way the possession or sale of hunting rifles or shotguns used by law-abiding sportsmen across the country. 
   I encourage my Senate colleagues to support this important legislation as we seek effective ways to help law enforcement reduce gun violence in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Georgia for yielding the floor. 
   We are all--every Member of this Senate--vitally interested in the health and welfare of our educational system throughout the United States. We are taking divergent roads to try to improve that system. 
   I rise today, though, in opposition to the Education Savings Account provisions of this particular legislation. I think it is both bad tax policy and bad  education policy. In fact, I think one of the great dividing lines between those who support this legislation and those who oppose it is whether or not our primary responsibility is to enhance, support, indeed, to reform public education or to somehow, in general, provide disbursed resources to parents. 
   Our primary goal should be to enhance and reform and provide better public education. This legislative proposal, as well-intended and well-meaning as it is, does not do that. As I said, it represents both bad tax policy and bad education policy. 
   In terms of the bad tax policy, it is a preferential distribution to wealthy Americans. If you look at the analysis by the Treasury Department, it shows that this legislation would disproportionately benefit the wealthy and provide little or no benefit to low- and middle-income families. 
   Indeed, 70 percent of the tax benefits under this bill would go to families in the top 20 percent of the income bracket. This is bad tax policy because one of the problems we have today is the growing divergence between low- and middle-income Americans--working Americans--and upper-income Americans--not to suggest that upper-income Americans do not work. But what I am suggesting is that over the last 7 to 9 years of unprecedented growth in the economy, with a huge bonanza on Wall Street, we have seen the wealth and income of upper-income Americans grow significantly. We have not seen the same kind of effect--although we are beginning to see it--for low- and middle-income Americans. 
   When we go into the tax system and create a tax preference such as the one proposed in this legislation, that remarkably benefits upper-income Americans, we are exacerbating that bifurcation of benefits, that bifurcation of wealth and income. 
   If we are talking about effective tax policy, we should think of ways, rather than benefiting the well-to-do more, to try to provide those low-income and middle-income Americans with more tax relief. This bill does not do that. 
   In fact, 7 percent of the families with children in private schools would receive over half the tax benefits in this bill. I also suggest that these families probably are not sending their children to private schools because they need assistance. They are sending them to private schools because they have the means to do it--and, in fact, many other reasons. They are not sending them, I think, in any conscious way, to improve the public school system. 
   That is where there is this disconnectedness between tax policy designed to help private schools and the involved commitment of so many of the Members of the Senate who are trying to reform public education. I do not think there is a connection. I think parents who are sending their children to private schools today--and it is their prerogative--are doing so for reasons unrelated to the social advancement of other students or the social advancement of the community. They simply think a particular school is the best school for their child. Today they can pay for it. They will continue to pay for it--with or without this legislation. That is their choice. 
   One of the good things about our educational system is, we do have choices such as that. But the real question is, should we be subsidizing that choice with our tax system at the expense of public education? Should we subsidize education in a way in which 
   the greatest subsidy goes to the most affluent Americans? I think the answer is clearly no. 
   It has been estimated by the Joint Tax Committee that if you look at the tax benefit for the average family--not the wealthier family, not the lowest income family who might possibly avail themselves of this provision--the average benefit is estimated to be little more than $20 over 4 years. Over one year the benefit translates into paying for 3 notebooks, 14 erasers or 1 box of crayons for the 90 percent of taxpayers who have children in public schools. We can, in fact, do something better, at least, for those in public education with this money. We should do that. So from a tax perspective, I think this bill is questionable. 
   Let me raise one other point, perhaps a technical point. These IRAs for education were designed to help people receive higher education, to be able to save for very significant tuitions. The presumption is that families will begin to save, either when they are just starting out in married life or certainly when the first child comes along, but that it gives them at least 18 years to accumulate the principal in this IRA account, and interest which is tax exempt, and then 18 years later, having a significant amount of principal and accumulated interest, they could begin to draw from it. 
   I must confess, I am not a tax expert. But I wonder, just on a technical basis, whether elementary education is the most suitable mechanism, if you will, the most suitable objective for these types of IRAs, 
   since at most you have 3 or 4 or 5 years before the child goes to first grade to begin to accumulate. If you have several children, these funds might not be useful at all or be so disbursed. That is a technical point. 
   The basic point about the tax policy aspect is that essentially the benefits go to very wealthy Americans. The benefits are not an inducement or incentive to go to private schools. They are going to private schools anyway. They will go to private schools without this. Anytime we take money away from public education, we are really taking it away from children who need us to stand by them and need us to put all of our efforts into reforming public education which should be free and excellent for all of our citizens. 
   That aspect of the tax policy is one reason one could object--and I do object--to the legislation. The other aspect is the question of education policy. We have heard all of our colleagues come to the floor talking about education as a primary concern of the American public. That is absolutely true. They want to have a good system of public education. 
   As the Senator from Georgia pointed out, they don't want us to run it from Washington, DC. I agree with him on that. But they certainly want Washington, DC, to participate in the reform of American education. They want Washington, DC, to be a force, not a dominant, controlling force, but a catalyst for real reform at the State and local level. They want specific needs addressed. They want better facilities for their children. That is why many of my colleagues on the Democratic side have proposed significant support for local initiatives to rebuild and renovate schools. 
   I don't know about my colleagues, but every time I go back to Rhode Island, I have city council and school committee members come up to me and say: What we need is some money from Washington to help us with our school construction and modernization programs. That is a real concern. Frankly, if we support this type of tax break or tax advantage, which will flow primarily to private education, we won't have the resources to go in and help local communities rebuild and revitalize their schools. 
   Also, if we look at some of the other processes going on at the local level in terms of how do we make better schools, one critical issue that has been identified in recent polling is the need for more parental involvement in public schools. I know that proponents of this proposal are talking, I think quite sincerely, about empowering parents. 
   But we have another challenge when it comes to parents--getting those parents into the life of the public school. It is getting those parents to be involved in the education of their children in public schools. We can't do that simply by wishing for it. We have to provide support and resources. We have to provide training for teachers to be more adept, more sensitive to the needs of a new type of parent. 
   Particularly when you go into low-income communities in this country, both rural and urban, you find many times young parents who themselves had a very difficult experience in school. They are not the most adept at or interested in going back into the schools and being part of their child's education. We have to recognize that. 
   In my part of the country--frankly, in every part of the country today--we have many parents whose first language is not English. Again, if we really want to help our public schools--which I argue is our first and primary responsibility--we have to empower schools and teachers to deal with these types of parents. We can't do that if we take resources away from public education and target it through tax breaks  to private education. In fact, I argue--and I have submitted legislation to this effect--we should provide resources for public schools to have much more effective outreach to parents, much more effective ways to involve them in the life of their children. 
   That might be a more fundamental and more significant form of parental involvement and real parental choice than is offered by this tax bill. It may for the first time give parents, particularly those of low-income children, a real voice in their child's education in a public school. That is something else, again, I believe we should do. But if we take resources away from public education, we won't be able to do it. 
   We also have to ensure we have good, well-qualified teachers. Frankly, in many school systems we can't say that with confidence. I ask the Senate: How does this legislation before us in any way help public schools have better teachers? It doesn't. I think the logic and implication here is that it will assist, encourage, subsidize parents to put their children in private education. 
   I believe rather than walking away from a problem--indeed, a problem we should be dealing with directly--we should focus our attentions on the problem and our resources. In the area of teacher preparation, we could use the billions of dollars that would be involved in this program to enhance professional development, first, in the teacher colleges where the new teachers should learn about the new classroom, new technology, new techniques, and then, second, by integrating into public education the kind of comprehensive teacher preparation that is part of the curriculum, teacher mentoring, allowing principals to have more time to actually be education leaders. You can't do that for free. You need resources. We can help, not by dictating to the States but by essentially giving them the chance to qualify for grants that will help them do innovative things. 
   So for many reasons, a policy of simply telling parents you can leave the public school system with a subsidy is bad education policy because it doesn't go to the core of what we should be about, which is making sure that every public school in this country provides excellent education for all of the students. 
   Public education has always been the great leveler in this country. I went to parochial school, but that was a choice of my parents. There was always public education there for me, for them to choose. Perhaps this is nostalgia at this point in my life, but it was always perceived to be excellent education, good, solid education, getting people ready for the challenges of the last century. Now we have to get ready for the challenges of this century, and still we need public education. 
   Again, I believe this proposal is motivated by the same desire that is motivating every Member of the Senate--finding a way to improve educational opportunities for Americans. My disagreement is that our focus should be on public education, and this proposal does not focus in on public education. In fact, it draws resources away from it. 
   Also, I object because of the tax implications. Now is not the time to essentially provide tax incentives for people who already, and are likely to continue to, do what we are trying to subsidize, particularly when the benefits are so overwhelmingly skewed to the very affluent in our country. 
   I object to the legislation. I hope we can come together again. We can talk about some of the issues which I hear day in and day out from parents, from elected officials, from school superintendents back in my home State: How do we fix up our schools so they are not remnants of the last century and the 19th century? We have school buildings in Rhode Island built in 1878 and 1876 that are still being used. We have others that are almost as old. How do we deal with those issues? How do we prepare better teachers? How do we reduce class size? because we know from analyses and evaluations that smaller class sizes are beneficial, particularly when it comes to minority children. How do we do this in the context of public education? 
   That is where we should be focusing our attention. That is where I hope we can focus our attention. I urge this measure be put aside so we can get on with what I think is our top priority: Reforming, reinvigorating public education so we can say with great confidence on the floor of the Senate--and we cannot say it today--every school in this country gives every child in this country the chance to develop their talents to the fullest. Every public school does that. Until we can say that, I suggest we concentrate on improving public education, not subsidizing private education. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to speak briefly on a technical amendment offered by myself and Senator SESSIONS. Senator SESSIONS and I are offering this technical amendment merely to correct some provisions which we felt were needed in order to avoid an unintended reading of the amendment. Reaffirmations are essentially agreements between creditors and consumers whereby the consumer agrees to continue to repay the debt owed the creditor, even after all other debts may be discharged in bankruptcy. Unfortunately, there have been many instances in the past in which consumers have not been well-informed going into these agreements, and in some cases have been coerced into signing them. As some of my colleagues may recall, in offering our original amendment on reaffirmations, Senator SESSIONS and I had two major goals: the first was to improve consumer's understanding of what they are doing when they agree to reaffirm a debt that they were entitled to, under the law, have discharged. The second goal was to promote efficient handling of reaffirmations in the bankruptcy process. Our November amendment developed a uniform disclosure form that is to be filed with the court along with the reaffirmation agreement into which the consumer is entering. The amendment also expands the authority of the bankruptcy court to review those reaffirmations that are most likely to fail, such as debtors whose income and other expenses clearly indicate that they do not have the ability to repay the debt which they are reaffirming. In that respect, the Reed-Sessions amendment seeks to provide courts with the information they need to determine quickly and efficiently whether these reaffirmations are appropriate or not. The specific changes that we are making today to our original amendment simply clarify certain points we felt may be open to misinterpretation. For example, we want to make it clear that the debt a consumer is reaffirming includes two totals: First is the total amount of the debt the consumer owes, and second is the total amount of any other costs accrued by the consumer since the date they were given the disclosure statement. At another point, we wanted to make clear to the consumer that the payments they would be making on the reaffirmed debt are subject to change, based on their reaffirmation or original credit agreement. 
   In the part of the amendment detailing certain steps the consumer needs to undertake, we wanted to make clear that consumers would not be penalized if their attorney decides not to sign the reaffirmation agreement and the disclosure statement. 
   We also want to make clear to consumers that in certain circumstances, they can also redeem the item, rather than reaffirming the debt they have on it. to redeem it, they can simply make one payment equal to the actual value of the item. 
   All of these mostly minor changes will make the original amendment that much more clear and easier for the consumer to understand when they are going through the unpleasant process of bankruptcy. With all that said, it was my hope to have another point included in the final version of this amendment, but I have agreed not to push for its inclusion at this time. This last piece that I was seeking deals with the amount of time one has to file reaffirmations. I would first like to make it clear that it is not my intention to suggest that the original Reed-Sessions amendment was unclear about the need for timely filing of reaffirmations and the new disclosure form with the court. However, in the course of discussions with consumer advocacy groups, there were strong arguments that it could be interpreted that way. Therefore, I sought what I thought was a judicious approach, which was to create a 50-day window--between the first meeting a debtor has with creditors until the time of discharge--to enter into a reaffirmation agreement. The original Reed-Sessions amendment goes to some length to carefully define the information that must be presented to the debtor, the instructions that the debtor must receive, and the conditions under which this information must be presented to the courts. However, I think we will all recognize that this information is most useful to the courts if it can be provided in a timely manner. 
   The underlying bill already contains a number of provisions that outline certain deadlines for actions that the consumer must undertake within the course of bankruptcy. Therefore, this new deadline would be entirely consistent with those others already present in the bill. I believe a deadline of some kind is necessary in this case as we have seen certain abuses in the past, most notable in the case of Sears, where there appeared to be no effort to file these reaffirmation agreements with the court, yet all the while consumers continue to pay as if they had been. I would also like to point out that several advocates and bankruptcy judges were consulted on the timing issue, notably Judge Eugene Weedoff of Chicago and Judge Thomas Carlson of California, as well as Professor Elizabeth Warren of Harvard University. However, I'm pleased to say that I have come to an agreement with Senator SESSIONS on the technical amendment and on addressing the timing issue with regard to filing reaffirmations. Therefore, I would urge the support of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, my friend from Alabama is correct. I believe that we have an honest, fair reform to the reaffirmation process and procedure. I know there has been a great deal of work dedicated to this end, and I am pleased we have arrived at this common ground. I have some concerns about the time limits for approval of these reaffirmation agreements. I had hoped this timing issue would be resolved, but I share Senator SESSIONS' desire to see this amendment passed with the technical corrections. I would ask my friend if he shares my interest in addressing this timing issue in conference? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, first, let me commend the Senator from Wisconsin for his efforts. He has spoken out forcefully and clearly and correctly for so many months about our obligation to see that the people of East Timor have a chance to chart their own course, to reach their own destiny, to rule themselves. I thank him for his efforts. 
   Today this amendment is being withdrawn, but this withdrawal should not be a signal that we are turning away from East Timor. Indeed, it is once again an opportunity to speak out and demand that we do, in fact, attend to the needs of this emerging country. 
   As the Senator from Wisconsin pointed out, I traveled to East Timor twice last year. The first time was a week before the referendum. I traveled with Senator HARKIN and our colleague from the other body, Congressman JIM MCGOVERN of Massachusetts. We were there a few days before the election. What struck us was the incredible courage of the people of East Timor. It was an ominous and foreboding atmosphere. Armed militias were roaming the countryside threatening people and making it clear that their goal was to intimidate all of the East Timorese either not to vote or to vote for continued association with Jakarta, with Indonesia. Despite this, we saw countless East Timorese who were willing to risk their lives, declaring to us that they would vote, they would risk their lives. 
   I had occasion in Suai to be speaking at a church where there were thousands of displaced persons gathered around this church in the protection of three priests. I told them that the vote is more powerful than the army. Not only did they believe that, but they risked their lives to prove it. Sadly, with the conclusion of the referendum, the militias went wild, conducting a rampage throughout East Timor. In fact, the three priests in Suai who were leading their congregations were slaughtered by the militias because they chose to talk about democracy and independence and self-determination. 
   I returned back to East Timor in the first week of December. Since the election had taken place, the United Nations had authorized the intervention of international forces, and we owe a great deal to the armed forces and the Government and the people of Australia because they launched thousands of Australian soldiers to enter that country, to stabilize that country, and literally to give a chance to the people of East Timor to build a democratic society. 
   The United States also contributed roughly 200 troops. The troops were led by our U.S. Marine Corps. The bulk of the troops were U.S. Army forces. These troops, once again, displayed magnificently the ability of American  forces to respond to a crisis and to bring to bear not only our technology, but our values, as they supported that struggling democracy, struggling to emerge in East Timor. Now, the Indonesian Government has formally renounced the claims of East Timor. It is being administered in the interim by the United Nations. 
   We had the chance in our last visit at the end of November, beginning of December, to meet with the leadership of the United Nations. They are led by a very accomplished diplomat, Sergio DeMello. But I have to say that their efforts to date are quite feeble when it comes to the difficult challenges they face. So I think the whole international community has to step up and assist this effort of reconstruction because one thing was painfully obvious to us as we traveled through East Timor--the country was deliberately, cynically destroyed. Every building that was worth habitation was burned. Ironically and interestingly--because I think the Indonesian military was calling all the shots--they didn't touch the churches because they knew that would probably make CNN. But a few feet away from every church, rows and rows of buildings were destroyed. We met the people of East Timor, people who are struggling for the basic subsistence now after all the mayhem and destruction. Once again, 
   I commend the military forces--particularly ours--that are there today helping out. 
   We have a great deal to do to ensure that our words about independence, our words about the value of democracy, and our words about self-determination are transferred into palpable progress for the people of East Timor. We have an opportunity, I say an obligation, to give them resources to get the job done. I believe we should start with an appropriation of $25 million for humanitarian assistance so they can reconstruct their schools and infrastructure. Literally, the militias and Indonesian Army destroyed all records--postal records, all identification records, all land records. This country has been totally devastated, deliberately and cynically destroyed. We have an obligation to help them rebuild. They are a people who want to rebuild, who want to make progress and go forward. 
   I also had the chance while I was in East Timor to travel to West Timor, which is still part of Indonesia. I went to these camps where there are thousands of East Timorese, many of whom were taken against their will from their homes and brought into these camps. These camps are not a place where a person can stay indefinitely. It is a transitory shelter. Many people are there because they are intimidated by the militias still lurking in the camps. Others are fearful and afraid of going home because they might run into retribution by those who stayed behind, the proliberation democracy forces. But in any case, they are creating a huge problem of assimilation and a huge drain on the resources of the villages of West Timor. 
   I had a chance to meet with the Catholic Relief Service, which is doing great work there, and representatives of the Catholic Church. We have a real obligation, also, to see that these displaced people in West Timor are allowed to go home safely and to reintegrate into their society, into the new country of East Timor. The work is substantial. 
   Today's effort by the Senator from Wisconsin, after many days to get this measure to the floor, should, as I say, not be a signal that the problem is solved and that we can withdraw--since no longer is East Timor capturing the front page headlines--it should be rather an opportunity for us to recommit ourselves to do the work of helping these people build a just, decent, and viable society and country. 
   Let me say a final word because we are all here today talking about an issue that has been on the minds of the world for the last year because of the publicity. But long before East Timor was a well-known word in the United States and around the capitals of the world, there was one Member of this Senate, Claiborne Pell, who strove mightily to point out the injustice and the need for freedom. In 1992, Senator Pell traveled to Indonesia, saw President Suharto, and asked him to hold a plebiscite on self-determination. That was a full 7 years, or more, before this referendum was held. He also wanted to visit East Timor but was denied permission to meet with Xanana Gusmao, then in a Jakarta prison. He held hearings and he kept this issue on the forefront of the consciences of many in the world. In a very particular way, the freedom of East Timor today is a tribute to his quiet, persistent efforts through many years. The fact that today Xanana Gusmao is back home in East Timor, is a leader in that community, a community that will decide its own fate, a free country, emerging in the world, is a tribute again to Senator Pell. 
   Let me conclude by thanking, once again, Senator FEINGOLD for his great effort, his clear voice, his dedication and commitment to principle. Let us all resolve today that we have just begun to help these people to rebuild their country, their society, and to create a society that will have our values, but will also definitely have their own perspective as East Timorese. 
   I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000124</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me associate myself with the remarks of the Senator from New Jersey. I agree with him on the seriousness of the tragedy that befell his constituents in New Jersey. Several years ago, in Rhode Island, we had a similar tragic experience at another Dominican college, Providence College, where many students were injured and several were practically killed. All of us in America extend our sympathy to these families in New Jersey and to the Seton Hall University academic community. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-20000124</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to take a moment to inform the Senate that today the U.S. Supreme Court, in  the case of Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, upheld contribution limits in the campaign finance system of the United States. 
   This was a victory for our democracy. It was a victory for the voters because, essentially, what the Court said is that elections in the United States are about votes, not about money. They affirmed the core holding of Buckley v. Valeo that reasonable contribution limits in Federal campaigns--and today, by extension, in State elections--are constitutionally permissible. I was very pleased with this decision. 
   Several months ago, I organized an amicus curiae brief, which was submitted to the Supreme Court in this case, and advocated the position the Court adopted today--that contribution limits are, in fact, permissible under the Constitution of the United States. 
   Again, this is a victory for those who would like to see elections be contests of ideas rather than clashes of special interests, amplified by huge amounts of money. Today is a victory for voters who, by their decreasing numbers, show their disenchantment with the political system. They feel the system is not about ideas or candidates' positions, but really about the candidates' treasure chests. This feeling is a corrosive force that undermines democracy in this country. Well, today, the Supreme Court held the line and declared that we can impose reasonable limits on campaign contributions. 
   As Justice Souter said in his opinion, this is a situation in which the perception of corruption is as powerful as the reality of corruption. If voters perceive that the system is not benefiting them, but benefitting a special few who contribute, they will lose faith in the system. That loss of faith will ultimately disrupt our ability to conduct a democratic government here in the United States. 
   The decision today also indicates that we have both the opportunity and, I argue, the obligation to move forward on broader campaign finance reform. Today, the court said that, in fact, we can limit direct contributions of hard dollars to campaigns. By extension, they give us, I hope, the impetus to go ahead and extend these limits to soft money, because we all recognize that soft money is dominating the political scene today. As we speak, an avalanche of soft money is entering into our political system as part of the Presidential campaign and various federal and state campaigns for office. Soft money contributions were 75 percent higher in 1999 than in the same period in 1997. We can do something about this. The Supreme Court has confirmed our ability to legislate, and we should move very quickly and very forcefully to adopt, I believe, a total ban on soft money--but at the minimum to impose limits on soft money. 
   If we don't do that, again we will undermine the faith and the trust of the people of this country in our electoral system. They trust and have faith that we are a nation ruled by votes and not by the size of political contributions. 
   We have lots of work to do, and we should begin immediately. I sense, as many do, that one of the reasons we have been stalling on campaign finance reform in this body is because some people were able to offer up an easy excuse, that we should wait to see if contribution limits are going to be upheld by the Court as constitutional. 
   The Supreme Court has now decided. They have spoken in a very strong voice today, by a vote of 6 to 3, and declared that reasonable limits on contributions are constitutionally appropriate. As a result, I believe we should take their decision Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC case and build on it by limiting soft money and other forms of indirect contributions. 
   Let me quote from Justice Souter:  
   ..... there is little reason to doubt that sometimes large contributions will work actual corruption of our political system, and no reason to question the existence of a corresponding suspicion among voters.  
   Today's decision is an anecdote to that suspicion, but the real cure will come when we adopt comprehensive campaign finance reform by outlawing soft money and placing other reasonable restrictions on the electoral process. 
   Today the Court discharged their responsibility. Now it is time to take up ours. The Supreme Court declared that we can act. We should act. I hope this decision will be a source of energy for us this Congress, so that we can work together on a bipartisan basis for adoption of reasonable and sensible campaign finance reform. 
   I thank the President. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act. 
   I want to pay tribute to my colleagues, Senators KENNEDY and JEFFORDS, who began working on this legislation in the last Congress--effectively building support for this bill from a handful of senators to 79 cosponsors. 
   I also want to commend Senators MOYNIHAN and ROTH, who have dedicated their time and effort to this important cause. They have kept the debate on this bill focused on the substance, and have prevented it from degenerating into grandstanding or partisan bickering. 
   But the lion's share of credit should go to the members of the disability community, who have been tireless advocates for work incentives legislation. Without their hard work, we would not be here today. This bill is the product of their grassroots activism--making a common sense idea into a national policy. 
   As my colleagues know, the major provisions of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act are infinitely sensible. They would remove the most significant barrier that individuals with disabilities face when they try to return to work--continued access to adequate health care. 
   Currently, individuals with disabilities face the dilemma of choosing between the Medicare and Medicaid health benefits they need and the job they desire. Mr. President, this is not a choice at all, and it is regrettable. 
   According to surveys, about three quarters of individuals with disabilities who are receiving Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits want to work. Sadly, less than one percent are actually able to make a successful transition into the workforce. A major barrier seems to be the lack of sufficient health care coverage. 
   By passing this legislation, we will extend eligibility for Medicare and Medicaid and provide a helping hand to individuals with disabilities who aspire to work. 
   Mr. President, this legislation also takes a step to help workers who are stricken with progressive, degenerative diseases, such as Multiple Sclerosis, HIV/AIDS, and Parkinson's Disease, which can be slowed with proper treatment. With the health coverage buy-in offered under this bill, these workers can continue to hold a job instead of leaving the workforce in hopes of meeting the need requirements for Medicaid coverage. 
   These citizens can continue to make substantial contributions to the workplace and to society while benefitting intellectually and emotionally. 
   With the Americans with Disabilities Act, Congress adopted legislation to combat discrimination and remove physical barriers from the workplace. Now, we have the chance to lift yet another barrier to work, the loss of health care coverage. 
   In my home state of Rhode Island, more than 40,000 individuals with disabilities could benefit from the work incentives bill. Across the country, more than 9.5 million people could be positively affected by this legislation. 
   Our booming economy has created millions of new jobs, and has brought thousands of Americans into the workforce for the first time. By passing this legislation, we can take another step to help a significant group of Americans participate in our national economic prosperity. 
   Mr. President, before I yield, I would like to briefly mention my concern about some offsets attached to this measure. As colleagues who have followed this bill know, it seemed as if there was a revolving door when it came to the consideration of offsets during the Conference. Provisions came and went and returned again. 
   I was pleased that a controversial offset regarding the refund of FHA upfront mortgage insurance premiums was withdrawn. This offset was essentially a $1,200 tax on approximately 900,000 low- and middle-income families and first-time home-buyers, and the conferees were right to omit it from this bill. 
   Regrettably, the bill retains two other controversial offsets, which I oppose. The first is an assessment on attorneys representing clients with Social Security disability benefits claims. Although the Administration supports this offset, I believe that it will discourage qualified attorneys from taking on these complicated, labor-intensive claims cases--which already offer little remuneration to attorneys. Ultimately, this assessment will hurt those individuals trying to secure their rightful benefits, not the attorneys. I commend the conferees for taking steps to blunt the impact of this provision by capping the fee at 6.3% and requiring GAO to study the cost and efficiency of this and alternative assessment structures. Nonetheless, I still believe that this is an inappropriate offset. 
   The other offset changes the index for student loan interest rates from the 91-day Treasury bill to the three-month rate for commercial paper. This provision saves a modest amount of money in the short-term. Unfortunately, those savings will not be transferred to students, and the offset will actually put taxpayers on the hook if the markets turn sour. Let me add that this provision flies in the face of an agreement reached in last year's Higher Education Act Amendments. Under that legislation, we were to study the impact of this type of conversion. We are still awaiting the findings of that study, and in the absence of an authoritative conclusion, I believe it is premature to entertain this change in policy. Mr. President, setting these important concerns aside, I believe that the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act is a major victory for all Americans, and we should all support it. I want to again commend the leading Senate sponsors, Senators KENNEDY, JEFFORDS, MOYNIHAN, and ROTH for their tremendous work in bringing this legislation to this point, and I urge all of my colleagues to vote for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I would like to offer a few comments about H.R. 1693, a bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) and clarify the overtime exemption for employees engaged in fire protection activities. 
   This bipartisan bill was passed on the House Suspension Calendar without objection on November 4, 1999, and just passed the Senate under a unanimous consent agreement. 
   Generally, under the Fair Labor Standards Act, workers are entitled to overtime compensation for hours worked in excess of 40 in a given week. The FLSA contains an exemption for overtime, under Section 7(k), for employees of public agencies who are engaged in fire protection activities. This exemption allows employees engaged in fire protection activities some flexibility in scheduling their work hours. It also recognizes the extended periods of time that firefighters are often on duty by allowing firefighters to work up to 212 hours within a period of 28 consecutive days before triggering the overtime pay requirement. 
   H.R. 1693 clarifies this firefighter exemption as it relates to emergency medical personnel. This bill provides that paramedics who are cross-trained/dual role firefighters, and work in a fire department and have the responsibility to perform both fire fighting and emergency medical services, be treated as firefighters for the purpose of Section 7(k) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. H.R. 1693 does not create a new exemption from the FLSA, it merely clarifies the definition of firefighter. 
   Supported by the International Association of Fire Fighters and the International Association of Fire Chiefs, H.R. 1693 ensures that unreasonable burdens are not placed on fire departments when accounting for hours worked. In effect, it elucidates the original intent of the Section 7(k) provision of the FLSA, the provisions that apply to firefighters who perform normal fire fighting duties, and hopefully the Senate's passage of this clarification addresses the concerns of the interested parties. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to join Senators ROTH, COLLINS, LINCOLN, CHAFEE, MOYNIHAN, and others in support of the Foster Care Independence Act. 
   The Foster Care Independence Act, a top priority of the late Senator John Chafee, addresses the needs of children aging out of the foster care system who are facing the loss of critical support and benefits at a point when they most need them. 
   Nationally, an estimated 20,000 foster care children ``age out'' of the system each year. In my home state of Rhode Island, approximately 30 percent of all children currently in foster care are older and will soon be leaving the system. 
   When these young people leave the foster care system, they often find themselves on their own with few financial resources; limited education, training and employment options; no place to live; and little or no support from their community. 
   The vulnerability of this population cannot be overstated. Studies show that those leaving foster care experience higher rates of unemployment and illegitimate pregnancies and are more likely to fall victim to crime. Indeed, twenty-five to forty percent of these young adults transitioning from foster care experience homelessness; only about half have completed high school; and less than half find jobs. 
   Without the emotional, social, and financial support families provide, many of these young adults are not adequately prepared for life. If we do not arm them with the resources and skills they need as they transition out of foster care, we are sentencing these kids to failure and chronic dependency. We may see them again and again--on our welfare rolls, in our prisons, living on our streets. We do not want that legacy for any of our children, particularly when we know how to prevent such tragedies from happening in the first place. 
   I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Senate's Foster Care Independence Act, which will help these young adults make a strong and sustainable transition to independent adulthood by expanding resources available through the Independent Living Program; allowing states to use Independent Living funds for basic living needs, including room and board; and allowing states to provide health care, including coverage of mental health needs, through Medicaid. 
   It is fitting that this legislation also renames the Independent Living Program after Senator John Chafee who worked so long on this issue and so hard on this legislation. 
   I am confident, however, that Senator Chafee would have said that we need to do more for these young people. He advocated strongly for requiring states to provide health care to those aging out of the foster care system that need it. This requirement is not included in the bill we are passing today, but I encourage my own Governor and others to use the flexibility in this bill to provide health care to all those aging out of foster care. While I remain committed to continuing my work on this issue, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. It is an important step in helping young people leaving foster care to live up to their fullest potential. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to the Providence Gay Men's Chorus, which celebrated its fourth anniversary on November 14, 1999. I would like to thank the Chorus for its four years of community involvement, during which time the members have shared not only their melodious voices with the citizens of Rhode Island, but also their hopes and ambitions for a better world. 
   The Providence Gay Men's Chorus, which began in 1995 as a group of eight, now has 50 members. In addition to their musical talent, one of the attributes that is most unique about the Chorus, and most appreciated, is the group's mission to promote tolerance. As we know, the real work of fostering support for people with diverse backgrounds and lifestyles usually happens slowly, and within the context of shared activities and community. The Providence Gay Men's Chorus reaches out with its concerts to expand the bounds of community. By helping to create an atmosphere of tolerance and understanding, their work benefits not only the citizens of Rhode Island, but ultimately the entire nation. 
   I am pleased to make it known that November 14, 1999 was not only the fourth anniversary of the Chorus, but also was declared Providence Gay Men's Chorus Day in the State of Rhode Island. Mr. President, I ask that a gubernatorial proclamation from the Governor of my home state of Rhode Island proclaiming November 14th as ``Providence Gay Men's Chorus Day'' be printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 
   I join in the chorus of voices supporting the Providence Gay Men's Chorus' dual mission of creating beautiful music and promoting mutual respect and understanding. I know this talented musical group will continue its good work and I wish them many, many more birthdays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the Reed-Sessions amendment to the manager's amendment to S. 625, the bankruptcy reform legislation we have been considering over the past few days. I urge my colleagues to support the passage of this important amendment. 
   The Reed-Sessions amendment deals with the reaffirmation of one's debt, and it reflects a compromise that has been worked out at length between myself, Senator SESSIONS, the Treasury Department and consumers. I believe it is a fair and balanced amendment that seeks to treat those who enter into reaffirmation agreements with their creditors in a fair and just manner, and to provide them--as well as the bankruptcy courts--with the greatest amount of information they need in order to make the wisest decisions possible. 
   For those of my colleagues unfamiliar with these agreements, a reaffirmation is an agreement between a debtor and a creditor in which the debtor reaffirms his or her debt and willingness to pay the creditor back, even after many of the other debts may have been discharged during bankruptcy. The creditor must then file this reaffirmation agreement with the bankruptcy court. The court then has the opportunity to review this agreement, but in most cases, for one reason or another, does not. 
   Recently, there have been some documented cases in which creditors have used coercive and abusive tactics with consumers in order to persuade them to reaffirm their debt, when in many of these cases there is no question that the individual can in no way afford to do so. The most visible of these cases occurred with Sears, in which the company did not even file these reaffirmation agreements with the court, therefore negating even the option of the court to review these cases. 
   The Reed-Sessions amendment would essentially provide for clear and concise disclosures when a debtor chooses to enter into a reaffirmation agreement with a creditor. Our amendment would create a uniform disclosure form, whereby everyone who is filing a  reaffirmation agreement must fill this form out. Based on the information provided on the form, certain situations will then obligate the court to review such agreements in order to determine if the reaffirmation agreement is truly within the debtor's best interests. 
   In constructing this compromise amendment, I think we have achieved some very important goals. First and foremost, we want everyone to recognize that a reaffirmation agreement is a very weighty decision, and that the individual needs to understand--whether they are represented by counsel or not--all the ramifications of the agreement into which he or she is entering. In fact, the individual needs to understand that they in no way need to file a reaffirmation agreement. 
   Another vital issue is to have the court review such cases in which the debtor wants to reaffirm his or her debt, but in calculating the difference between the person's income and all their monthly expenses, it remains impossible for the debtor to do so. In other words, there exists a presumption of undue hardship upon the person. It is at that point that we want the court to have the ability to step in and say to this person, that either they have the ability to repay some of this debt because of other sources of funds--such as a gift from the family--or that they do not, and therefore the reaffirmation cannot be approved by the court. 
   Without this amendment, we are concerned that the abuses in the reaffirmation system that we have seen will continue to occur, and the courts may continue to be left in the dark with respect to the existence of these agreements, let alone have the option to review them. This amendment is not perfect, and if given the choice, I probably would have preferred to go even further than we have in our language. With that said, I think it's still important to note that with this amendment, we have given our courts and consumers the appropriate tools that will provide them with the necessary information to make decisions that are in the individual's best interests, not the creditor's. That is a crucial point that I wanted to emphasize. 
   I appreciate all the efforts of those involved in the process that went into constructing this compromise amendment, and I am confident that it strengthens the hands of our courts, and more importantly, the minds of our consumers as they make decisions that will weigh upon them for the rest of their lives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise as a strong and proud supporter of Senator KENNEDY's amendment to raise the  minimum wage one dollar over 2 years. I commend Senator KENNEDY not only for his leadership today but for his attention to the needs of working Americans throughout his career in the Senate. 
   Today we are debating, and I hope soon adopting, legislation to address an issue vital to America's working families. The amendment before us calls for a 50-cent increase in the minimum wage in January of 2000, with another 50-cent increase in January of 2001. So in a 2-year period we would increase the minimum wage from $5.15 to $6.15. 
   This minimum wage increase is a necessity for many individuals participating in today's workforce, particularly those moving from welfare to work. Among the rationales behind welfare reform was that everyone who is able to work should work and that a job should offer a sustainable income. Unless we have a living minimum wage, a minimum wage that can support a family, a minimum wage that can allow a family to meet its basic needs, then it is something of a cruel hoax to force people into the workforce, knowing that they will not be able to support themselves on their income alone. 
   Our economy has been performing remarkably well since the last increase in the minimum wage in 1996. A record 8.7 million jobs have been created. We all recall when we were debating the minimum wage that year, one of the most persistent objections was that the increase would kill job growth; it would prevent our economy from continuing to grow. The reality is that we are in the midst of a period of record economic expansion during which a large number of new jobs have been created. 
   Increasing the minimum wage is not something that is going to hamper our economy. It will enable working families to provide for their families. Moreover, economic factors dictate that if we don't increase the minimum wage now, the modest growth in inflation will wipe out the gains of the 1996 increase. Indeed, the minimum wage is in danger of dropping below its pre-1996 level in real dollars if we do not pass this amendment. 
   I believe other economic factors dictate that we increase the minimum wage. As we look at this economy, we are discovering fantastic growth in many quarters, but we also see that the incomes of the poorest Americans are not growing as fast as they have grown in the past. 
   Between 1950 and 1978, income growth for the lowest earners grew proportionally more than any other income level. What has happened recently, because of our new information society, because of new technology, because of a booming stock market, the wealthiest Americans are increasing their incomes substantially. In fact, the wealthiest one percent of Americans, doubled their incomes between 1977 and 1999. In sharp contrast, the poorest 20 percent of Americans actually saw their incomes fall by 9 percent between 1977 to 1999. 
   There are some things that we can do to begin to reverse this trend, to ensure that every part of our American family participates in our country's economic success. The first step is to increase the minimum wage. 
   The reality is that today, workers making the minimum wage--heads of households, single heads of households with a full-time job--earn about $10,700. That is about $2,500 below the poverty level for a family of three. So essentially, what we are telling workers who are going into the workforce with minimum-wage jobs, is that they will not be able to get out of poverty. That I believe is wrong. If someone is going to go into the workforce, work 40 hours a week, and try to raise a family, they should at least be able to make enough money to live above the poverty line. 
   The other issue that has often been raised with respect to the minimum wage is that, really, this is just a benefit for kids, that kids are the only group of people who have minimum-wage jobs. They are the people working at the fast food restaurants and performing other minimum wage jobs. This is not the truth. Statistics show that 70 percent of minimum-wage earners are adults over 20 years of age. They also show that 46 percent of these minimum-wage workers have full-time jobs and that 59 percent are women. 
   This correlates closely with the startling statistics we have seen with respect to children and poverty. Frankly, one of the most disturbing statistics is the growth in the number of children living in poverty. Typically, these children are in single-parent households led by women. Since 59 percent of minimum-wage earners are women and 40 percent of minimum-wage earners are the sole breadwinners of their family, these problems seem to be directly connected. 
   One of the great shames of this Nation, at a time when we are recording robust growth in the stock markets, at a time when we are seeing extraordinary development in our economy, is that one in five children still live in poverty in the United States; that 12 percent of American households cannot meet their basic nutritional needs some part of the year; that 39 percent of the families who turn to food banks for assistance have one adult member who holds a job. These are working Americans, but their wages are so low they cannot feed their families and their children live in poverty. We can do better than this in our great country. The first way to do better is to support this increase in the minimum wage proposed by Senator KENNEDY. 
   The reality is that having a job today does not mean you are going to be above the poverty level. Having a minimum-wage job frequently guarantees you are below the poverty level. At this time in our history, with such economic progress, with the vista of a new century before us, with the information age bursting upon us, we should be able to guarantee if a person works 40 hours a week, that person should be able to raise a family above the poverty level. 
   This proposal for a minimum wage seems only to be controversial here in the Senate. If you go back to Rhode Island and ask people what they think, they think the minimum wage should go up. They recognize and understand how hard it is to support their own families. They know if they had a minimum-wage job, it would be close to impossible to do that. 
   Indeed, there was a survey done by the Jerome Levy Economic Institute which showed that 87 percent of small businesses that 
   were contacted and asked about increasing the minimum wage thought that they could absorb this modest cost. That is up from 79 percent just a year ago. So even small business believes raising the minimum wage is appropriate. That might be a direct reflection of the fact that many states have already raised the minimum wage above the federal level. Indeed, in many parts of the country with the highest minimum wages, there is a persistent shortage of labor. In fact, businesses are bidding for workers at levels above the minimum wage. 
   We are really talking about protecting the most vulnerable workers in our economy, those without the power to negotiate higher wages, those in areas of economic activity that do not require high skill levels, and therefore can be easily replaced. These are the people for whom we should have a special concern, these are the people we should help move up out of poverty, not by a handout but by simply rewarding the value of each hour they work. 
   Business Week, a magazine that is not traditionally a strong proponent of prolabor sentiments, had this to say:  
   It is time to set aside the old assumptions about the minimum wage....... We don't know how high the minimum wage can rise until it hurts the demand for labor. But with the real minimum wage no higher than it was under President Reagan, we can afford to take prudent risks.  
   Frankly, this is not a risk, it is a prudent investment in the workers of America. My own paper, the Providence Journal, adds:  
   An increase to $6.15 would help take a nick out of poverty and provide a more solid base for ..... economic expansion. Congress ought to do it.  
   I ask unanimous consent to have this Providence Journal editorial printed at the conclusion of my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I agree with the Providence Journal. It is about time Congress acted. It is about time we took a nick out of poverty. It is about time we invested in working families and gave them, through their own efforts, the  resources to raise their families, to raise them up out of poverty. We must give new hope to families who are working very hard in this economy to raise children, to move forward and seize the opportunity at the heart of the American dream. 
   I again commend Senator KENNEDY for his great efforts, not just today, but for so many days on the floor, fighting for working families, fighting for economic justice for all our citizens. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. May I be recognized for 2 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank and commend the Senator from Virginia for his very thoughtful introduction of those remarks. Like so many in our body, we were in that church. Zech Chafee's words rang so true--the clarion call about his father, his service to this great Nation.  
   Also, I join Senator WARNER in saying this is a very proud day for the Chafee family. They are proud of the accomplishments of Senator John H. Chafee and proud of the commitment to public service of Lincoln Chafee. I am pleased and proud to join my colleague from Virginia in this request. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank Senator DODD for his kind words and his great leadership, along with Senator SARBANES. 
   I rise to support the conference report on S. 900, the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999. We are on the verge of a historic transformation of the financial services industry that will take it from the Depression-era laws of Glass-Steagall and position it to meet the challenges of the next century. 
   Some may argue this legislation is a ratification of what the market has already done, but it is an important ratification because it will allow our financial institutions to be more efficient and more effective. I think it will accomplish two fundamental and very important goals. First, it will provide more efficient access to financial services which will directly benefit consumers in terms of better service and lower cost. Second, it will make our financial institutions much more competitive in a world of globalized financial transactions. These two goals have been achieved in this legislation. I am proud to support the legislation. 
   It is also incumbent upon us to understand and underscore some of the concerns that still remain after this legislation is passed. Again, let me emphasize this legislation will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our financial services industry and will benefit the American consumer. As we tear down the walls between banks and insurance companies and securities firms and open up many possibilities, we also open many potential pitfalls. I think we should be concerned about those, also. 
   As we celebrate passage today, we should also underscore and point out areas that bear close watching. Fundamental changes as we are proposing today include consequences which may have adverse effects if they are not anticipated and watched carefully. Among those is the issue of the consolidation of our financial services industry. We are witnessing the megamergers that are transforming our financial services industry from small multiple providers to large providers that are very few in number. We run the risk of the doctrine ``too big to fail;'' that the financial institutions will become so large we will have to save them even if they are unwise and foolish in their policies. We have seen this before. We have to be very careful about this. 
   The legislation does not require any market policing requirements with regard to this issue. It does mandate the Federal Reserve, within 18 months of passage of this bill, will review the impact of potential mergers and consolidations in the financial services industry. I think that is appropriate, and I look forward to the report of the Federal Reserve. Again, this is another issue of which we have to be terribly conscious because with this legislation we are allowing a huge concentration across different functional areas of financial activities in the United States. Again, I believe it is justified and warranted by the changing conditions of our economy, but we should be careful as we go forward. 
   Another issue that has been mentioned several times before is the issue of privacy. The legislation before us is taking a first step in protecting the financial information of the consumers of America, but it is just a first step. There are many more steps we must and should take. They will be demanded of us by our constituents, the consumers of financial services throughout the United States. With the growth of computer technology and the ability to store and disseminate large volumes of information instantaneously, we will continue to wrestle with these issues of privacy, not just in financial services but in every area of endeavor throughout our economy. 
   We took a first step. We have instructed companies, if they wish to share a customer's private information, they must give that customer the option to say no to that activity. We have also tried to curtail some of the more egregious predatory activities we have witnessed in the last few years with respect 
   to the abuse of consumer information by financial institutions. As I said before, we are moving ahead with this first step. We must not only contemplate but also be prepared to take other steps in the future to protect the privacy of the American people. This legislation has laid a foundation, but that foundation alone will not protect the privacy of the American people. 
   There is another issue I would like to comment upon, which has been commented upon by my colleagues also, and that is the issue of the Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act is not just a device to allocate resources in poor neighborhoods; it is a commitment by this Government, through the banking industry, to ensure that all Americans have a fair opportunity to participate in the economy and do so in a way that they can benefit themselves and their families. 
   Community Reinvestment has been a powerful success over the decade since its passage because it has, for the first time, given many communities which before were ignored, which before were denied access to credit and financial services, those very financial services and credit. As a result, not only did they get the money but they got something else: They got a feeling of participation and connection to this economy and to this country. That perception, that feeling, is just as important as any of the specific programs funded by CRA. 
   What we have done in this legislation is protect the fundamental essence of what I think CRA should be about. We have said that if any financial institution wants to partake of these new, enhanced, expanded powers, they must by law have a satisfactory CRA rating. If they do not have a satisfactory CRA rating, they will not be able to take advantage of this legislation. 
   I believe the dynamics of the financial industry are such that the opportunity to participate in these new powers will be a positive force, ensuring through competition in the marketplace that CRA is not neglected, that CRA is still a strong, vital part of any financial institution. If that is not the case, then we have to be prepared to act once again because we cannot abandon the Community Reinvestment Act. To do so would be to abandon scores and scores of our fellow citizens. We cannot do that. We should not do that. 
   This legislation with respect to CRA has been improved immensely from the Senate version. As you recall, the original provisions sent forward by Chairman GRAMM had potentially severe effects on CRA. There was a total exemption of small banks from any CRA requirements. That would represent 38 percent of the banks in this country. They would be exempt totally from any recognition of CRA responsibility. That has been eliminated from this conference report. 
   What we have done is allowed small banks that have satisfactory or better CRA records to have a longer interval between their inspections. But we have also required and provided that the regulators at any time can conduct a CRA inspection if they have reasonable cause to believe the CRA program is not being followed by that financial institution. These are steps which have strengthened CRA, particularly in contrast to the legislation we considered on this floor several months ago. 
   There is another aspect I believe deserves comment, and that is the issue of functional regulation. I am very pleased that functional regulation has become the order of the day, that 
   the Securities and Exchange Commission will look at securities activities, banking regulators look at banking activities, and the Federal Reserve will have enhanced powers to look at financial holding companies and other major financial institutions. But I believe we have to recognize we are giving these regulatory authorities new powers, some of which are somewhat novel. They have to have the capacity, both institutionally and financially, with resources, to be much more perceptive and much more thorough in their regulatory process-- again hearkening back to the point of the huge potential concentration in these financial institutions. 
   We also understand with respect to this legislation that, in this arena of functional regulation, there might be some potential stalemates. 
   Mr. President, one of the potential roadblocks or stalemates is that State  insurance commissioners still play an extremely important role. In some respects, unless they are fully integrated through this Federal financial regulatory structure, we might in fact have problems. That is another issue that bears close watching. 
   There is, I believe, something else we should comment upon, and that is the success we have had in allowing the financial services industry to choose the mode of operation which best suits their unique situation for an individual company. What I am specifically referring to is the language with respect to operating subsidiaries. I know my colleague, Senator SHELBY of Alabama, has worked long and hard on this. I, too, have worked long and hard on it. We now have a situation where national banks can choose to operate a certain limited spectrum of activities in a subsidiary or in the holding company. I believe this is sensible. It also gives the Treasury Department a significant role in the regulatory process since they, too, will be able to regulate some of these new activities. That is important also. 
   One last point I believe bears repeating. We are entering in some respects, a brave new world. The old walls have come down. We have new opportunities; new financial vistas have to be explored. It behooves us to be very watchful, very careful, and to insist on and ensure that the regulators are careful and also that they have the resources to do this job. We will all rue the day, this day, if years from now or months from now we discover that, because of this new flexibility, there are more complicated problems facing us. I think we should go forward but go forward with the notion that we, in fact, are going to regulate well and wisely these new powers we are giving financial institutions. 
   Let me conclude by saying this has been the work of many hands. I thank Chairman GRAMM for his persistent efforts. Our ranking member, Senator SARBANES, has done a remarkable job leading us carefully, thoroughly, and thoughtfully. Senator DODD has been especially important in this process, bringing us together in moments when we did not think we could come together for final resolution. Senator SCHUMER, my colleague from New York, was very active throughout this process; Senator EDWARDS, and many others--all of the conferees played critical roles. In the other body, Chairman LEACH and ranking member LAFALCE, Chairman DINGELL and Chairman BLILEY, all were very effective. 
   I reserve special words for two members of the administration with whom I have worked over the last several years: Bob Rubin, the former Secretary, and John Hawke, the former Comptroller of the Currency. 
   Finally, on my staff, I thank Jonathan Berger and Kevin Davis for their great work. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to honor an outstanding individual who has dedicated her life to the education of our young people. Karen Leach of Johnston, Rhode Island, is retiring from the Providence School Department after nearly thirty years of dedicated service. 
   Since Karen graduated from Rhode Island College in 1969 with a Bachelor's Degree in Elementary and Special Education, she has received Masters of Education Degrees in both Elementary Education and in Administration for Elementary and Middle Schools. She has also furthered her professional development by achieving certification in many areas. 
   The capital of Rhode Island, Providence is at the heart of our state's urban center and during her career, Karen has been assigned to several schools in the District. Karen began her long and accomplished career as a teacher and dedicated her efforts toward Special Education. During her tenure, the field of education has seen tremendous change--from curriculum, to technology, to teaching methods and to administrative practices. Throughout nearly three decades of service, Karen has brought efficiency, expertise and professionalism to her many challenging assignments. 
   In 1988, Karen was named Supervisor of Elementary/Pre-School Education for the Providence School Department and in 1992, she became Principal of the Sackett Street Elementary School and the Reservoir Avenue Elementary School. Since the 1992-1993 school year, she has been Principal of the Sackett Street Elementary School and she is retiring from her present administration position as Interim Acting Superintendent of Teaching and Learning. 
   Karen Leach is a person of great integrity, compassion and initiative. She is accomplished and well respected for her many contributions to the Providence School System. She has made a positive impact on the quality of education, and in the lives of students, especially those with special needs. Most recently, Karen's leadership as a Principal and as an Administrator has left a lasting mark on the City of Providence. 
   So many young people have had their lives enriched by one person's efforts. Karen Leach's commitment and her tangible accomplishments clearly demonstrate that an investment in education is indeed an investment in the future. 
   Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to join me in commending Karen Leach for her commitment to educational excellence and for her efforts to improve the overall quality of our education system. Indeed, she has made a tremendous difference in the lives of her students. As Karen Leach leaves the Providence School Department, she plans to continue as a professional educational consultant. I wish her well and remain confident that we will hear more news of this outstanding educator's good works.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I would like to express my disappointment about a provision that the Majority chose to include in the Youth Drug and Mental Health Services Act, S.976. In Section 305 of the Act, the ``Charitable Choice'' provision permits all religious institutions, including pervasively religious organizations, such as churches and other houses of worship, to use taxpayer dollars to advance their religious mission. Given the Supreme Court precedent, I believe this provision is Constitutionally suspect and be subject to greater review when this bill goes to Conference with its House counterpart. 
   Although charitable choice has already become law as a part of welfare reform and the Community Services Block Grant, CSBG, portion of the Human Services Reauthorization Act, efforts are being made to expand this change to every program that receives federal financial assistance. The inclusion of charitable choice in this legislation is particularly disturbing since, unlike its application to the intermittent services provided under Welfare Reform and CSBG, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) funds are used to provide substance abuse treatment which is ongoing, involves direct counseling of beneficiaries and is often clinical in nature. In the context of these programs it would be difficult if not impossible to segregate religious indoctrination from the social service. 
   I agree with the Majority that faith-based organizations have an important and necessary role to play in combating many of our nation's social ills, including youth violence, homelessness, and substance abuse. In fact, I have seen first-hand the impact that faith-based organizations such as Catholic Charities have on delivering certain services to people in need in my own state. By enabling faith-based organizations to join in the battle against substance abuse, we add another powerful tool in our ongoing efforts to help people move from dependence to independence. 
   However, although there are great benefits that come with allowing religious organizations to provide social services with federal funds, the Vice President recently reminded us that ``clear and strict safeguards'' must exist to ensure that the dividing line  between church and state is not erased. Even the front runner for the Republican Presidential nomination, Governor George W. Bush, acknowledged to the New York Times that these safeguards are necessary: ``Bush said . . . that federal money would pay for services delivered by faith-based groups, not for the religious teachings espoused by the groups.'' 
   In my home state of Rhode Island there is a tradition of religious tolerance and respect for the boundaries of religion and government. Indeed, Roger Williams, who was banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony for his religious beliefs, founded Providence in 1636. The colony served as a refuge where all could come to worship as their conscience dictated without interference from the state. Understandably, Rhode Islanders remain mindful of mixing religion with its political system. 
   Mr. President, I am particularly concerned that without proper safeguards, well-intentioned proposals to help religious organizations aid needy populations, might actually harm the First 
   Amendment's principle of separation of church and state. For example, the charitable choice provision creates a disturbing new avenue for employment discrimination and proselytization in programs funded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Under current law, many religiously-affiliated nonprofit organizations already provide government-funded social services without employment discrimination and without proselytization. However, the legislation before us extends title VII's religious exemption to cover the hiring practices of organizations participating in SAMHSA funded programs. As the Majority's report language points out, even if the organization is solely funded by SAMHSA, it may ``make employment decisions based upon religious reasons.'' 
   For example, a federally funded substance abuse treatment program run by a church could fire or refuse to hire an individual who has remarried without properly validating his or her second marriage in the eyes of that church--even if he or she is a well-trained and successful substance abuse counselor. 
   This is not an entirely hypothetical example. In Little v. Wuerl, 929 F.2d 944 (3d Circ. 1991) the Court held that ``Congress intended the explicit exemptions to title VII to enable religious organizations to create and maintain communities composed solely of individuals faithful to their doctrinal practices, whether or not every individual plays a direct role in the organization's religious activities.'' The Court concluded that ``the permission to employ persons `of a particular religion' includes permission to employ only persons whose beliefs and conduct are consistent with the employer's religious precepts.'' This may be acceptable when the religious organization is using its own money, but when it is using federal funds, with explicit prohibitions against proselytization, this kind of discrimination is a cause of considerable concern. 
   During markup, Senator KENNEDY and I introduced an amendment that would have addressed this issue by including important safeguards and protections for beneficiaries and employees of SAMHSA funded programs. 
   The Reed-Kennedy amendment would have removed the bill's provision that allows religious organizations to require that employees hired for SAMHSA funded programs must subscribe to the organization's religious tenets and teachings. Since section 305 prohibits religious organizations from proselytizing in conjunction with the dissemination of social services under SAMHSA programs, it is contradictory to permit religious organizations to require that their employees subscribe to the organization's tenets and teachings. Second, the amendment would have eliminated the bill's provision that extends title VII's religious exemption to cover the hiring practices of organizations participating in SAMHSA funded programs. 
   Ultimately, the modest proposal would not have reduced the ability of religious groups to hire co-religionists or more actively participate in SAMHSA funded programs. It merely would have eliminated the explicit ability to discriminate in taxpayer funded employment and left to the courts the decision of whether employees who work on, or are paid through, government grants or contracts are exempt from the prohibition on religious employment discrimination. Unfortunately, the Majority chose to vote against including the important safeguards proposed in the Reed-Kennedy amendment. 
   For the last 30 years, federal civil rights laws have expanded employment opportunities and sought to counter discrimination in the workplace. I recognize that we need the assistance of religious organizations in the battle against substance abuse, but without a far more robust and informed debate must be far more circumspect of efforts to expand current exemptions to title VII. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991102</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, under rule XXII, I yield my hour to the minority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my regret over the tragic situation in Armenia. As we all know, a few days ago gunmen broke into their Parliament and killed the Prime Minister and several other officials of the Armenian Government. Later today Senator ABRAHAM will introduce a resolution which will express our condolences to the people of Armenia and our expression of support for their continued struggle to create a viable and strong democratic tradition in their country. 
   As I said, late yesterday afternoon in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, several gunmen broke into their Parliament and killed eight Government officials and wounded seven others. They then held hostages for 24 hours, and only after the intercession of the President of Armenia in negotiations did they relent, release the hostages, and then surrender to the authorities. 
   Among those killed were Prime Minister Vazgen Sarkisian, Parliament speaker Karen Demirchian, deputy speakers Yuri Bakhshian and Ruben Miroian, Energy Minister Leonard Petrosian, senior economic official Mikhail Kotanian and lawmakers Genrikh Abramian and Armenak Armenakian. These gentlemen gave their lives as they were pursuing a democratic future for the people of Armenia. 
   It appears the gunmen were not part of any larger conspiracy. They were family members who were bent on a path of individual retribution and revenge. But the tragic incident reminds us of the fragility of constitutional government and democracy around the world, particularly in Armenia. 
   Armenia declared its independence in September of 1991. It has been struggling to ensure a free and fair electoral process. Today, Armenians continue to be determined to ensure democracy will be the rule in their country. I had the occasion to travel there two years ago. 
   We all know one of the great points of friction in the area is the area of Nagorno-Karabakh, an ethnically Armenian territory which was controlled for years by Azerbaijan. Recently, we have seen progress. Indeed, the Prime Minister was one of the key figures in forging a dialogue between the Government of Azerbaijan and the Government of Armenia. His tragic loss, I hope, is not a setback for that process. 
   Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott had just left Armenia in his efforts to try to prompt further discussions between Azerbaijan and Armenia. He has now returned there to ensure it is clear to the Government and people of Armenia that America will stand with them. 
   Today is an opportunity to send our message of support, our message of condolence; also, our message of further support for the people of Armenia as they confront the challenges of democracy. 
   I join my colleague, Senator ABRAHAM, and others supporting this legislation to, once again, signal to the world and the people of Armenia that we stand with them in this time of tragedy, and will in the future on more hopeful days. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I wonder if the Senator from Nevada shares my same frustration that the Republicans are distorting the record of Social Security and their efforts to protect it. Like you, I lived through the days of the Republican revolution back in 1995, when they literally were talking about dismantling the Social Security system. Their current track seems to be entirely bogus. But at the same time they are distorting Social Security, they are also turning their backs on the need in our country for some important legislation. 
   Many of them have been mentioned, but there is one, I think, that warrants particular emphasis. That is hate crimes legislation. After the tragic death of Matthew Shepard in Wyoming, of James Byrd in Texas, the tragedy at Columbine, and arsons at synagogues in Sacramento, it is high time we took a very simple step to provide the full ambit of our civil rights protection for those crimes that are hate oriented, that have been based upon gender or disability or sexual orientation. Yet that, too, is in, as our leader said, the landfill of legislation that has become this Congress to date. 
   I wonder if the Senator shares my frustration about that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I do, indeed, agree with the Senator. What also strikes me as particularly ironic is, when one of these incidents occurs, across the spectrum of political thought, across the spectrum of this body, there is unanimous condemnation. There is a lot of moralizing, a lot of talk about isn't this horrible. Yet we have it within our power, as the Senator suggests, to bring this legislation to the floor, to have a debate, to constructively engage, to compromise, not on principles but on details, so we can fulfill our legislative responsibilities. 
   Yet what frustrates me, and I believe also the Senator from Nevada, is the fact that none of this is taking place, that all of this is being shoved off to the sideline so that we are not able to do our jobs. And while we are being frustrated, I should say that, as the Senator pointed out so accurately, these hate crimes go on day in and day out. Some are very publicized, some are not getting attention. It is frustrating and it is wrong. All we are asking for a very simple remedy. Let's make the protections of the hate crimes bill within the ambit of our civil rights laws. Let us be able to give our enforcement authorities the power to deal with crimes that are based upon disability, gender, or sexual orientation. If we do that, then I think we will advance the cause of justice in this society. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Absolutely. One thing that resonates throughout this entire dialog this afternoon is the fact that our inaction costs individual Americans; it costs them better health care, it costs them better education, it costs them the right to have a Federal judiciary that is fully staffed by competent and committed judges, and it costs many literally their lives because our indifference to hate crimes can do nothing to stop them. In fact, one could suggest they create an environment that does not discourage them and therefore might encourage them. But, in any case, our inaction means that Americans are bearing the costs, and these costs can be avoided simply by bringing to the floor legislation and by moving with respect to this legislation in a prompt and purposeful way. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation with my colleague Senator TORRICELLI that would give the federal government clear authority to recover from the manufacturers of lead-based paint, funds spent on the prevention and treatment of childhood lead poisoning. 
   Our knowledge of lead poisoning dates back to 200 BC, when the Greek physician Galen wrote ``lead makes the mind give way.'' Benjamin Franklin knew about ``the mischievous effects of lead'' back when he wrote those words in 1786. In the late 19th century, scientific studies and medical reports began detailing the effects of lead on children. And by 1904, the source of those poisonings was identified as white lead paint used in housing. Queensland, Australia, was the first to ban certain applications of lead-based paint in 1922. Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, France, Latvia, Poland, Romania, Spain, and Sweden followed suit in the mid-1920's. In 1978, more than a half of a century later, lead-based paint was banned in the United States. 
   Today, nearly one million preschoolers nationwide have excessive levels of lead in their blood; making lead poisoning the leading environmental health disease among children. Even low levels of lead exposure can cause serious injury to the developing brain and nervous system of children, lost IQ points, learning and reading disabilities, hyperactivity, and aggressive or delinquent behavior. At high levels of exposure, lead causes mental retardation, coma, convulsions and even death. 
   Lead-based paint in housing is the major remaining source of exposure and is responsible for most cases of childhood lead poisoning. Children contract lead poisoning when they come into contact with lead-based paint chips, contaminated soil, or dust generated from deteriorated paint. An estimated three million tons of lead still coats the walls and woodwork of American homes. Approximately half of America's housing stock, roughly 64 million units contain some lead-based paint. Twenty million of which are considered hazardous because they contain paint which is peeling, cracked, or chipped. My home state of Rhode Island has the fifth oldest housing stock in the country, and, as a result, has a lead poisoning rate that is three times the national average. 
   Sadly, this disease is particularly prevalent in those communities with the fewest resources to address the problem. Poor children are eight times more likely than kids from moderate and upper income families to contract lead poisoning. Yet, while lead poisoning is most prevalent in low-income communities, 20-25 percent of children who are poisoned live in middle- or upper-income homes. They were poisoned by exposure to lead released through renovation or repainting activities. 
   Taxpayers have already paid billions of dollars to deal with the tragic consequences of childhood lead exposure, including large expenditures for medical care, special education, and lead abatement in housing. However, what has been spent so far is barely a drop in the bucket. In Rhode Island alone, we are looking at a bill of $300 million to clean up just the most dangerous housing units. There are simply not enough grant or loan programs available. Last year, one federal lead abatement program had to turn down nine applicants for every grant it made. 
   Each year, we fight to make childhood lead poisoning a priority in Congress, in State legislatures, in cities, and in communities, knowing that the real solution is getting rid of the source of a child's exposure. At the same time we are frightfully aware that it could be decades longer, and millions of poisoned children later, until we finally ``get the lead out.'' 
   The Rhode Island Attorney General recently filed a 10-count lawsuit against the manufacturers 
   of lead paint and the industry's trade association. The lawsuit documents nearly a century-long record of industry culpability. The lead industry aggressively marketed its product as safe, despite knowledge of its harmful effects that were made apparent by continuous warnings from the medical community. To date, an industry that has over $30 billion in assets has yet to make a significant contribution to addressing the problems associated with its product. 
   Clearly, victims of lead poisoning were never given a chance, not even a warning. Parents were never told that the product they used to beautify their home could prevent their children from achieving their fullest potential. Instead, the industry fought regulations in California, New York, and Maryland that would have banned the use of lead-based paint or required the product to be labeled as poisonous. In 1954, the Board of Health of New York City proposed a sanitary code provision banning the sale of paints containing more than 1 percent lead, and requiring lead paint to be labeled as ``poisonous'' and not for interior use. The lead industry opposed the proposal as ``unnecessary and unjustified'' and unduly burdensome. Ultimately, the New York City Board of Health dropped the proposed ban of lead paint in 1955, and adopted a more narrow warning label requirement. This is only one example from an extensive record of industry wrongdoing which I believe the federal government should have the authority to address. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent that privileges of the floor be granted to Rebecca Morley of my staff. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to speak with respect to National Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Week. Because of the efforts of my colleagues, Senator COLLINS, Senator TORRICELLI, and myself, this Senate passed a bipartisan resolution a last week to commemorate, during the week of October 24 to 30, National Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Week. 
   I think it is appropriate to recognize this problem that is taking place throughout this country and also recognize what we are trying to do to alleviate this great problem. 
   As a preliminary point, let me commend my colleague, Senator COLLINS, for her great efforts in this regard. She has been a true leader in this issue. She has been someone who has fought the good fight with respect to this problem. She has participated legislatively. I was very pleased and honored a few weeks ago to have her join me in Providence, RI, for a hearing on this issue. I look forward to joining her in a few weeks in Maine so we can examine the experience in her home State. 
   I also want to commend my colleague, Senator TORRICELLI, who also is very active as a leader in this effort. Indeed, Senator TORRICELLI and I have introduced legislation, the Children's Lead SAFE Act of 1999, which is critically important to the future of our children in the United States. 
   This importance has been underscored and highlighted by two recent reports--one earlier this year in January of 1999 by the General Accounting Office, and another report that has been released recently under the auspices of the Alliance To End Childhood Lead Poisoning and the National Center for Lead-Safe Housing. 
   Both of these reports underscore the need for additional efforts to eliminate childhood exposure to lead and also to provide additional support for screening and treatment of children who are exposed to environmental lead. 
   Regrettably, there are too many children in this country who are exposed to lead, typically through old lead paint that may be in their home. It is particularly critical and crucial to children who are at a very young age, under the age of 6, because their body is much more likely to absorb this environmental hazard, and also because those are exactly the times in which brain nervous systems are developing, where cognitive skills are being developed. We know lead is the most pernicious enemy of cognitive development in children. 
   In the United States, too many children are poisoned through this constant exposure to low-levels of lead in their atmosphere. This exposure leads to reduced IQ, problems with attention span, hyperactivity, impaired growth, reading and learning disabilities, hearing loss, and a range of other effects. 
   Lead poisoning is entirely avoidable, if we have the knowledge and the resources and the effort to prevent young children from being exposed to lead. 
   In January of this year, as I indicated, the General Accounting Office highlighted the problems in the Federal health care system with respect to lead screening and followup services for children. 
   We have policies that require all Medicaid children to be screened for lead. Sadly, we have not achieved that level of 100 percent screening. We want to reach that goal. Then after screening all of the children in the United States who may be vulnerable to lead poisoning, we want to ensure these children have access to followup care. Identifying poisoned children is only the first step and is only effective when coupled with proper follow-up care. 
   Most recently, we received information about that follow-up care from a report, the title of which is: ``Another Link in the Chain: State Policies and Practices for Case Management and Environmental Investigation for Lead-Poisoned Children.'' As I indicated, this report was sponsored by the Alliance To End Childhood Lead Poisoning and the National Center for Lead-Safe Housing. 
   This report presents a State-by-State analysis of data which suggests, first, there have been some innovative steps taken by the States, but unfortunately there are disappointing gaps in the screening and treatment of children who are exposed to lead throughout the United States. 
   There is also a great range among the States in their response to this problem of childhood lead poisoning. In my own State of Rhode Island, we have taken some very aggressive steps. Last week, we dedicated a lead center in Providence, RI, which provides comprehensive services for lead-poisoned children, including parent education, medical followup for children who have been exposed, and transitional housing. Many times the source of the pollution is in the home of these children, and because of their low income, there is no place for them to go unless there is this transitional housing. This is an innovative step forward. I am very pleased and proud to say it has taken place in my home State. 
   If you look across the Nation, you find much less progress. Nearly half of the States have no standards for case management and, thus, the quality of care lead poisoned children receive is often not consistent with public health recommendations. There is no real way to ensure these children are getting the type of care they need because there are no case management policies. Only 35 States have implemented policies that address when an environmental investigation should be performed to determine the source of a child's lead poisoning. There are many States where there is no way to determine where the source of the pollution is coming from that is harming the child. 
   In addition, the report points out that despite the availability of Medicaid reimbursement for environmental investigation and case management, more than half the States have not taken advantage of this Medicaid reimbursement. In addition, despite the emphasis we have in Medicaid on screening children, only one-third of the States could report on how many of their lead poisoned children were enrolled in Medicaid, suggesting that screening data are not being coordinated, and there really is not comprehensive, coherent screening policy in all too many States. 
   Senator TORRICELLI and I have proposed legislation that would address these deficiencies. The legislation will improve the management information systems so States know how many children are screened and how many children have been exposed. We also encourage them to integrate all the different agencies and institutions and programs that serve children so we can  have a comprehensive approach. This would include involving the WIC program in the screening, early Head Start, maternal and child health care block grant programs, so we have a comprehensive approach to identifying, treating, following up and educating with respect to lead exposure. 
   We are committed to doing that. We are committed to ensuring that every child in this country, particularly those children who are beneficiaries of the Medicaid system, have this kind of screening and followup. 
   Unfortunately, we have found too many States that are not following through on their obligations. Of the 38 States that have enrolled Medicaid children to managed care plans, only 24 reported that their State's contract with the managed care organization contained any language about lead screening or treatment services. So, many States are leaving it up to the managed care company or merely leaving it up to chance whether or not there are good protocols to follow up on lead exposure. 
   In addition to that, more than 40 percent of States reported that no funding is available to help pay for even a portion of the hazard control necessary to make a home lead safe for a lead-poisoned child. There are not the resources to help these families cope with the reality of homes that are literally poisoning and harming their children. That is one reason why I joined my colleague, Senator TORRICELLI, to address this problem 
   with respect to the Children's Lead SAFE Act of 1999. We would like to see clear and consistent standards for screening and treatment to ensure that no child falls through the cracks. We would to help communities, parents and physicians take advantage of every opportunity they have to detect and treat lead poisoning. 
   This bill is just one element in a comprehensive, coherent approach to eliminate this preventable disease that afflicts too many children in this country today. 
   I was pleased that during the appropriations process, the Senate supported the President's request for full funding of the lead hazard control grants program--indeed, particularly pleased when the conferees agreed with the Senate and maintained this funding. It is absolutely critical. We will continue to press forward in terms of screening and treatment, in terms of reducing lead hazards in the homes of children, and in terms of education, so there is no place in this country that fails to recognize the gravity of this situation where children are poisoned by exposure to lead. 
   Indeed, that is why we are here today. This week is National Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Week. We hope by reserving 1 week a year to emphasize the challenges we face, to emphasize the steps which must be taken in the future, we can galvanize additional support so there is no child in this country who is poisoned by lead, whose development--physical, mental, social development--is harmed by such exposure. 
   At the heart of this effort is the work of many people, but, once again, I thank my colleague and friend, Senator SUSAN COLLINS, who has taken it upon herself to charge forward to make this hope of a lead-safe environment for all our children a reality. I am pleased to be with her sponsoring this resolution, sponsoring this week of commemoration and also, in the days ahead, working to ensure that all the children are as free as we can make them from the harm and the danger of lead exposure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize Lt. Col. Alkie Carl Kaufman (RET) on the occasion of his ninetieth birthday. 
   Lt. Col. Kaufman enlisted in the United States Army, Company E, 121st Infantry, Georgia National Guard in January 1927. In September 1940, he was called to active duty with the 121st Infantry, Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Lt. Col. Kaufman bravely served as a company commander in the 30th Infantry Division, 8th Infantry Division and 77th Infantry Division during World War II. Later, Lt. Col. Kaufman served as company commander, battalion executive officer, battalion commander, and Regimental S-2 (Intelligence Officer) with the 94th Infantry Division in the European Theater of Operations during World War II. 
   Following World War II and the Korean Conflict, Lt. Col. Kaufman proudly served his country across the country and around the globe. His assignments included Fort Lewis, Washington, Fort Bragg, North Carolina, Tokyo, Japan, and Giessen, Germany. Lt. Col. Kaufman retired from the Army in 1960 with more than 33 years of service to the nation. 
   After retiring from military service, Lt. Col. Kaufman joined the staff of the First National Bank of Brunswick and retired as Vice President for Loans in 1977. 
   Lt. Col. Kaufman and his wife Frances had two children who chose to follow in their father's footsteps and join the armed services. Carl Kaufman retired from the U.S. Air Force with twenty-two years of service, and Col. Daniel Kaufman has served the United States Army for thirty-one years and is currently professor and Head of the Department of Social Sciences at the United States Military Academy. 
   I am proud to salute Lt. Col. Kaufman for his great service to his nation and his family and I wish him well as he celebrates his ninetieth birthday.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to join the majority leader and my colleagues in paying tribute to the senior Senator from Rhode Island, JOHN H. CHAFEE. I do so not only on my own behalf but on behalf of the people of Rhode Island, for they have suffered a grievous loss. 
   First, I extend my condolences to Mrs. Chafee and the Chafee family. Above all else, JOHN CHAFEE was a devoted husband, a devoted father, and a loving and caring father and grandfather. Indeed, his family is a living tribute to his remarkable life. 
   This is a personal loss to his family, to his friends, to his colleagues, but it is also a personal loss to the people of Rhode Island. For over 40 years, he has played a central role in the life of our State, and Rhode Island is a special place for many, many reasons, but it is a special place in particular because it is a place where everyone knows everyone else, and literally every Rhode Islander knew Senator JOHN H. CHAFEE. 
   If you had to ask Rhode Islanders what they felt and thought about this man, one word would come quickly to their lips: respect. This respect transcended party politics, social position, every category that we ascribe, sometimes arbitrarily, to people. 
   This respect was a function of a recognition, first, of his qualities as a man. He was a man of integrity, intelligence, tenacity, and fairness. He was a gentleman. When I arrived in the Senate--and previously as a Member of the other body--he treated me with graciousness and cooperation and help, and I thank him for that from the bottom of my heart. 
   The respect which Rhode Island holds for this great man is also a function of his selfless service to the Nation. He began that service as a young marine on Guadalcanal. He spent his 20th birthday there. JOHN CHAFEE, the son of privilege, could have found an easier way to serve his country during World War II, but he chose the very hardest way, so typical of the man. He chose to go ashore with the invasion force of Guadalcanal at a time when it was not clear we would prevail. It was only clear we would give everything to win, and JOHN CHAFEE was prepared to do that for his country, for his community, indeed, for decency throughout the world. 
   Later, after serving in World War II and going back to law school, he was ready to assume the privileges and the rights which such service won him. But another war beckoned, and characteristically, JOHN CHAFEE heard the summons of that trumpet and went to Korea to lead a marine rifle company. Again, he could have found less dangerous assignments but, once again, if American sons were at risk, JOHN CHAFEE would lead them. 
   After his service in the Marine Corps, he did return home, finished his law school studies, and came back home to Rhode Island. He served as a member of our general assembly with distinction, and in 1962, he was elected Governor of our State, clearly the most Democratic State in the country, but through arduous campaigning and through his personal qualities, he was elected by over 300 votes. Not a landslide, but enough to give him a chance to serve the people of Rhode Island, and serve he did. 
   Long before it was popular and chic to be an environmentalist, JOHN CHAFEE was an environmentalist. With innovative visionary legislation, he began our State's acquisition of open spaces so our quality of life would not be diminished by economic development. In fact, long before many others, he recognized that a good economy and a good environment not only can go hand in hand but must go hand in hand. This was the early sixties, long before Earth Day, long before the organized environmental movement, but he knew in his heart that quality of life was important to maintain. He knew also that our environmental legacy is a gift from God which we must revere, we must cherish, and we must pass on. And he did so. 
   He was also a builder because it was this time in our history that route 95 was being developed right through the heart of Rhode Island, and he was there. In fact, he joked that it was a great opportunity for a Governor because every time they completed 2 or 3 miles of interstate, he could hold a  press conference and talk about the progress. But it was something that was close to him, not because of notoriety, but because he saw this as a way to improve the economy of Rhode Island, to link us more closely to the national economy. Indeed, even up to his last days, he was working to improve the infrastructure, particularly the transportation infrastructure of Rhode Island, a mission he began as our Governor more than 30 years ago. 
   As my colleague, the senior Senator from Virginia, pointed out, he served with great distinction as Secretary of the Navy. After his family, his State of Rhode Island and the Marine Corps were his great loves. These two passions--his State and the naval service--helped mold his life and, indeed, he in turn helped mold these great institutions--our State and the naval service. 
   He served with distinction at a time when the Navy was being stretched, the tumult of Vietnam was spilling out into our streets, and still we had to fight a superpower adversary in the form of the Soviet Union. He served with characteristic vision, innovation, and distinction. 
   He was then elected to the Senate, and for four terms he has shown us all what it is to be a Senator. In fact, it is characteristic that Senator JOHN H. CHAFEE literally died on active duty serving his Nation and serving his State as a Senator. He spent his whole life in service to the Nation. 
   The respect for Senator CHAFEE also emanated from the recognition that he always had an unswerving commitment to principles. He was schooled in the hardest test: Always do the harder right rather than easier wrong. 
   There are extraordinary numbers of examples to attest to this dedication of principle. I can think of several, but let me just suggest that, again, before so many people took up the cause of gun control, Senator CHAFEE stood solidly to control the violence in the life of America, 
   to reasonably restrict access to weapons, to ensure that the lives of our children are protected. 
   I can recall being with him at a rally he organized in Providence, RI, where he had Sarah Brady come in. We were literally enveloped by a large group of counterdemonstrators with bullhorns, pressing in on us, trying to literally disrupt this rally to control guns in our society. 
   But anyone who waded ashore at Guadalcanal and fought in Korea was not easily intimidated. And he was not. He not only stood his ground that day, but he stood his ground every day to try to argue for more sensible rules with respect to handguns. And that is just one example of where he did, in some respect, the unpopular thing because it was the right thing to do. 
   This respect also emanates from the recognition by my fellow Rhode Islanders that, more than so many others, he always sought to find the common ground that would bring different groups together, that would result in progress, both in terms of legislation but more importantly progress in terms of the lives of the American people. 
   He was a pragmatist. He was committed to advancing the well-being of his constituents and the people of this country, and, indeed, the people of the world. He was always looking for practical ways to do that. He was wedded to the strong principles of the Constitution. But he was able to find ways, through the details, to advance those principles, to bring others aboard, to move forward. 
   When he became impatient, it was an impatience borne of the distractions that we sometimes find ourselves in in this institution and the posturing that we sometimes find ourselves in in this institution--because he was here to do the job of the people of Rhode Island: To improve their lives, to give them more opportunities, to give them more freedom, so they can use it not only for their advancement and the advancement of their children but the advancement of this great country. 
   He had a special concern for children and those Americans with disabilities. It was a concern that he did not trumpet about, but it was a concern that resonated throughout his entire legislative career. 
   Today, we have done much to ensure that the poorest children of America have health care through our Medicaid Program. And that was the handiwork of JOHN CHAFEE--not through press releases but through the hard work of legislation, the detailed intricacies of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Social Security laws. He expanded coverage because, while others would be disheartened by failure of comprehensive reform, he dug in and every day advanced the cause of health care, particularly for children in this country. 
   He always had a special place in his heart and in his service for disabled Americans. I know that because the disabled citizens in Rhode Island revere and treasure this great man for what he has done--again, long before public acclaim or public notoriety. And why did he do it? Because it was the right thing to do. 
   In March of this year, Senator CHAFEE announced he was leaving the Senate and going home. Last evening, he began that final journey home--home to Rhode Island, a State made infinitely better by his effort and example, a place that mourns but will forever revere his service and take pride in his achievements and inspiration from his life. 
   In the words of the Poet William Butler Yeats: 
 The man is gone who guided ye, unweary, through the long bitter way. Ye by the waves that close in our sad nation, Be full of sudden fears, The man is gone who from his lonely station Has moulded the hard years....... Mourn--and then onward, there is no returning He guides ye from the tomb; His memory now is a tall pillar, burning Before us in the gloom!  
   Senator CHAFEE will allow us to mourn, but insist that we move forward to do the unfinished work, which is the hope and promise of America. And with him as a guide we shall. And he would want it that way. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. LOTT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Could I---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I withhold. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, thank you. 
   First, let me thank the Senator from Michigan for graciously allowing me to precede him. I also understand he may have a parliamentary inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise with regret. Again, we are on the verge of abandoning substantive votes on campaign finance reform. This is an issue of vital importance to the American people. It is of vital importance to the majority of Members of this body. 
   We are here today because of the efforts of many, but particularly the efforts of Senator MCCAIN and Senator FEINGOLD, who have advanced this issue relentlessly over the course of the last several years. I regretfully and unfortunately fear we will step away once again from this debate, step away once again from consideration of this important topic. This is detrimental not only to this body, but also to the American people, who desperately want to see changes to our campaign finance system. I am disappointed because we have come very close collectively in this Congress to a principled reform of our campaign finance system.  
   The other body has passed legislation which is comprehensive. They have passed legislation which is now embodied in an amendment filed by Senator DASCHLE and Senator TORRICELLI. I believe this legislation goes a long way towards addressing many of the problems that confront our campaign finance system. It is not perfect. It is not absolutely complete. But it is a powerful corrective to the current problems we find in our campaign finance system. 
   The amendment which Senator DASCHLE and Senator TORRICELLI have advanced, known popularly as the Shays-Meehan amendment for the sponsors in the other body, does several important things. First and foremost, it bans soft money. Unlike the McCain-Feingold legislation, it bans all soft money--not just soft money directed at political parties. 
   Although we speak in these terms constantly, soft money, hard money, et cetera, I want to point out that soft money is unregulated contributions from corporations and individuals, typically very wealthy individuals, that are increasingly commonplace in elections throughout this country. 
   The Daschle legislation bans all such soft money contributions with respect to Federal elections. I believe that is the best way to proceed. Even though the McCain-Feingold bill is noteworthy and important, I fear simply banning money from political parties will drive these contributions to other formats, other forms, other forums. 
   Campaign dollars, like water, find their own level. When one channel is blocked, another channel will be pursued. Unless we have a comprehensive approach, unless we ban all soft money, rather than eliminating this problem we will merely redirect and reposition these soft dollars into other forms. 
   The second important point with respect to the Torricelli and Daschle legislation, is that it recognizes a relatively new phenomena in campaigns, sham issue ads, which are really campaign ads which are unregulated. They are dressed up to talk about an issue, but they are really about attacking candidates. Unless we have some disclosure, some regulation, these ads will become more prevalent and more pernicious in our campaign system. 
   The third point that the Daschle-Torricelli bill addresses is improving disclosure by the Federal Elections Commission and enforcement by the Federal Election Commission. It is not sufficient to have laws and rules on the books; they must be enforced. We all understand and believe that the more knowledge the American public has about campaign contributions and their sources and uses, the more comfortable they will feel with the political system. 
   Finally, this legislation which Senator DASCHLE and Senator TORRICELLI introduced establishes a commission to study further reform. All of these points are necessary. They don't completely solve all the issues that confront our campaign finance system, but they go a long way towards advancing the cause of fundamental 
   campaign finance reform. 
   Personally, I believe one of the problems we face is the escalation of spending on elections throughout this country and that we should address this issue of unlimited spending. None of the legislation currently before the Senate goes that far, but I believe we have to review and visit that issue when we again commence our debate on campaign finance reform. 
   This issue of campaign finance reform is not an academic, hypothetical, theoretical concern. It comes directly from the concerns of the American people. It is manifested by their increasing cynicism about the political system. It is manifested by their increasing indifference to the forms of government, to elections, to voting. This cynicism and indifference weakens our civic connections, weakens the foundation of our government--which is at heart the belief by our people in its fairness, efficiency and its service to them. All of this can be traced in part to the growing cynicism towards the campaign finance system. 
   These public phenomena have been measured by various surveys. In August, the Counsel for Excellence in Government released a survey conducted by Peter Hart and Robert Teeter, a Democratic pollster and a Republican pollster. They found less than 40 percent of the American people believe in the immortal words of President Abraham Lincoln: Our government is by and for the people. 
   Rather, they believe it is a captive of special interests, and the lure the special interests use are campaign finance dollars. 
   In the past, people have been disillusioned with big government and unaccountable bureaucrats. Today, they are cynical and disillusioned about the flood of cash flowing through the campaign finance system. 
   Another survey in January of this year, the Center on Policy Attitudes, found continuing record high public dissatisfaction with government. This finding supports the notion that people believe that government, and particularly elections, are not about ideas and policies, but about money. Money is talking and the American public's voice is being drowned out. 
   We must counter this--but we don't counter this type of public perception by walking away and abandoning campaign finance reform; rather, we counter it properly, correctly, and appropriately by debating and voting on substantive campaign finance reform. 
   I have made it clear my preference is for legislation along the lines of Senator DASCHLE's and Senator TORRICELLI's amendment, essentially accepting the work of the other body in the Shays-Meehan legislation, moving it forward, letting the President sign it, and letting the American people know that we are listening to them; we hear them, and we want to respond positively to their concerns and their growing uneasiness with our campaign finance system. 
   We are all trapped in a system that no one seems to like. The public does not like it and candidates are increasingly uneasy and concerned about the need to raise huge amounts of money, the constant effort needed to do that, and the perception of their efforts with respect to their obligations as public servants. Donors are increasingly troubled by the system. Indeed, many prominent business men and women throughout the country have banded together to support comprehensive campaign finance reform. It seems we are engaged in a race to the bottom--a race to see not what idea will prevail but how much money one can raise; to not just express a message but to drown out all other messages. 
   Another disturbing aspect of this process, campaigns now are being wrenched away from the candidate. One of the more disconcerting aspects of recent campaigns, a candidate can be out there making his or her case and suddenly be informed there is a TV ad from some unknown group from someplace in America arguing against them, advocating their defeat. All of this suggests we have to do something about our campaign system. 
   As I mentioned, the other body has stepped forward. They have given us legislation. We are very close, if we embrace this legislation, to passage of fundamental campaign finance reform. I hope we will take this step, but it appears increasingly clear we are abandoning our obligation to the American people. We are stepping away from votes on the substance of campaign finance reform, be it the McCain-Feingold legislation or the Daschle-Torricelli legislation. I believe that is a mistake. I believe the American people want us to act responsibly; they want us to act promptly; they want us to do what they sent us here to do, which is their business. And their business in the campaign finance area is putting in place reasonable restraints on spending. 
   A lot has been said about the marketplace of ideas, and that any fetters on campaign contributions would somehow affect the marketplace of ideas. There very well might be a marketplace for ideas in today's campaigns, but it is a market with very high barriers to entry, barriers that require extensive fundraising to overcome. It certainly is not perfect competition because the American people believe their voices cannot compete with the voices of large corporations or wealthy individuals who can, through direct contributions to candidates and indirect contributions of soft money, get their messages across on television or in the advertising media. What many people fear is that elections have become less about candidates and ideas and more about auctions. They find that instinctively repelling.  
   We have a chance to act. We should act. Regretfully, today we are forsaking that obligation. We are turning away from campaign finance reform. We are abandoning an obligation we should meet. I regret that. I hope we can proceed with this debate and move to votes on these measures, but I fear that will not be the case. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to encourage communities to foster school-based or school-linked family centers. These centers would provide a comprehensive array of information, support, services, and activities to improve the education, health, mental health, safety, and economic well-being of children and their families. 
   As we strive to ensure the academic and future success of our students, we must recognize that the increasingly complex needs of children cannot be met by the education system alone. 
   Some facts to illustrate this point: 
   Today, 11.3 million children--more than 90 percent of them in working families--have no health insurance. 
   7.5 million children under the age of 18 require mental health services, while the National Institute of Mental Health estimates that fewer than one in five receive the help they need. 
   It is estimated that nearly five million school-age children spend time without adult supervision during a typical week. Meanwhile, FBI data show that the peak hours for violent juvenile crime occur during the after-school hours of 3:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
   Also according to the FBI, juveniles accounted for 17 percent of all violent crime arrests in 1997, and juveniles are victims in nearly 25 percent of all crimes. 
   To address these and other serious issues facing our children and families, a few states and localities have established centers and developed programs designed to provide families with access and linkages to needed social services in a location that is easily accessed by families--their children's school. All too often, the programs and services currently available to assist children and families, like health and mental health care, nutritional programs, child care, housing, and job training, exist in a fragmented fashion, making it difficult for many families to find a point of entry. The aim of my legislation is to bring these vital services under one familiar roof so children and families have easy access to needed services. 
   Research indicates that school-linked family center programs are a cost-effective way to provide supports to children and families. According to a report by the Northeast and Islands Regional Educational Laboratory, school-linked services can also ``help to increase student achievement, save money and reduce overlapping services, reach those children and families most in need, make schools more welcoming to families, increase community support for the school, and help at-risk families develop the capacity to manage their own lives successfully.'' 
   My legislation, the Child Opportunity Zone Family Centers Act, builds on a successful model in my home state of Rhode Island, the Rhode Island Child Opportunity Zone (COZ) Family Center initiative. 
   The Child Opportunity Zone Family Centers Act would provide grants on a competitive basis to partnerships consisting of a high poverty school; school district; other public agency, such as a department of health or social services; and non-profit community organizations, including a family health center that provides mental health services. Partnerships would be required to complete a needs assessment, and then use this information to provide children and families with linkages to existing community prevention and intervention services in the core areas of education, health, and family support. In addition, partnerships would provide violence prevention education to children and families and training to enable families to help their children  meet challenging standards and succeed in school. 
   The guiding principle of Rhode Island's COZ Family Centers is to help children and families get the assistance they need. This principle is reflected in my legislation, which contains accountability provisions to ensure that partnerships focus on improvements in student achievement, school readiness, family participation in schools, access to health care, mental health care, child care, and family support services and work to reduce violence-related problems, truancy, suspension, and dropout rates in order to continue to receive funding. 
   As we prepare to work on the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, I believe that it is critical that we do all we can to provide a seamless, integrated system of support for children and families. By giving families an opportunity to get the support they need, we can truly help children succeed in school and life. I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this important legislation and work for its inclusion in the upcoming reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Wisconsin for yielding and also thank him and the Senator from Mississippi for their efforts on behalf of this legislation. But I must come to the floor today in opposition to this bill because it is not fair legislation for all the farmers of America--certainly not fair to the farmers of the Northeast, in Rhode Island, New England, the Mid-Atlantic States, because they have suffered a tremendous loss this year because of a drought that has historic implications. It was the worst drought in the history of this region in over 105 years of record keeping by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. This has had a devastating impact on the farmers of my State and of the region. 
   Most people do not consider the Northeast to be a place where there are lots of farms, but in my own small State of Rhode Island there are over 700 farmers who grow vegetables, turf, nursery stock, cranberries, strawberries, and potatoes. We also have numerous orchards and dairy farms. All of these farms have suffered devastating losses. And these are family farms; these are not large agricultural combines--certainly not in Rhode Island. They are family farms that are struggling to make do. This year they had a difficult struggle because of this historic drought. 
   We originally thought that farm losses would be about 50 percent of the crop--a serious blow. But I have just been given data today from our agricultural authorities where in Rhode Island they are suggesting that the August estimates were not as severe as the reality is turning out to be. In fact, the estimate is that the percentage loss of sweet corn in the State is 80 percent, silage corn is 70 percent, potatoes is 60 percent, mixed vegetables is 75 percent, and hay is 50 percent. These are difficult losses to bear, particularly difficult to bear without assistance. 
   We have received some rain through the last few weeks, but it has not been enough to reverse the damage that already was done April through August with the worst drought in the history of our region. 
   That is why I am here today, because, frankly, the resources in this legislation that are being made available to the Northeast, to the Mid-Atlantic farmers, are insufficient. We have tried, over the last several months, to structure a meaningful relief package that would help the farmers throughout this country--every region. 
   In the 1999 emergency supplemental appropriations bill, Democrats offered an amendment to provide disaster relief for America's farmers and ranchers which would have taken care of all of our farmers throughout the country. This provision was rejected by the majority. Later, Democrats offered additional disaster relief amendments to the fiscal year 2000 Agriculture appropriations bill as it was being considered in the subcommittee. Those amendments were rejected also. 
   On the floor of the Senate in August, I joined my Democratic colleagues in supporting an emergency farm package that would provide over $10 billion to producers in need of relief, including $2.6 billion in disaster relief and $212 million in emergency conservation assistance, both of which 
   would have been very critical to my farmers in Rhode Island and throughout the Northeast. Sadly, that proposal was also rejected. There was even discussion to try to work out a compromise, a bipartisan effort, on the order of $8.8 billion. This, too, failed. 
   Finally, I think in the hopes of moving the process forward, we did agree to the final $7 billion package proposed by the majority, as a downpayment, if you will, on the necessary support we hoped we could obtain through the conference process and we hoped we would be voting on today in this final conference report. 
   But today we are faced with a bill which we cannot amend, which we must either accept or reject; and, sadly, despite all the efforts, all the earnest efforts of my colleagues, I must vote against it because it does not provide the kind of assistance that is necessary for the farmers of my State and my region. 
   Of the $8.7 billion in emergency farm relief in the appropriations bill, only $1.2 billion is set aside for all disasters declared by the Secretary of Agriculture in 1999. In the Northeast alone, our Governors have told us we are facing nearly $2 billion in total losses. And as today's data indicates, those are probably conservative estimates. For the Department of Agriculture to cover 65 percent of our region's losses alone would cost about $1.3 billion. Yet we have only appropriated $1.2 billion for the entire country--every region, for every natural disaster from January 1 to December 31. 
   So as you can see, all of this money that is within this bill could easily be used in the Northeast, in the Mid-Atlantic alone, but it will be spread throughout the country and, in fact, be spread in such a way that my farmers will be particularly disadvantaged. 
   It is unlikely this $1.2 billion of disaster relief money will be available to my farmers until sometime in the middle of next year because, as the legislation is written, the Secretary must wait until the end of the year to calculate all of the damages throughout the country and then begin the cumbersome process of proration and distribution of these funds, which could take months. That is another problem with the legislation. Not only are there insufficient funds available to the Northeast, but these funds may not come until the middle of next year. 
   That is in contrast to what my colleague from Wisconsin pointed out with respect to those farmers who are part of the Agricultural Market Transition Act. There is $5.5 billion there. That money will be flowing out immediately. They will get assistance immediately. Not only will they get this assistance, but they will also qualify for this $1.2 billion of natural disaster money if they suffered their loss through a natural disaster. They will get essentially two bites of the apple, where my farmers in the Northeast will get what is left. 
   There are many States throughout this country that qualify for this disaster program, this $1.2 billion--33 States, in fact. So there will be a long line of farmers who have to be satisfied by this insufficient amount of money. 
   There are things we could have done, I believe we should have done, in addition to putting more money into the natural disaster program so we could take care of the real needs of all the farmers across the country. 
   I had hoped we could have increased the Crop Loss Disaster Assistance Program, which is something that has been helpful in the past. 
   There is also a Livestock Feed Assistance Program which is also critically important to my farmers in the Northeast because much of the silage has been lost. In our dairy farms particularly, that is a critical loss. 
   We also, as we go forward, should think about the structure of the program for noninsured crop disaster assistance, the NAP program. There is a trigger in that program that requires a 35-percent areawide loss. Sometimes we can't meet that loss, but, frankly, most of the crops in my State are noninsured. They are strawberries, vegetables, et cetera. They individually sometimes can't meet this trigger, and they are denied any assistance whatsoever. If that program were more flexible, we could address some of the concerns we are talking about today in terms of insufficient funding. 
   In addition to this lack of resources, in addition to the unfairness of the distribution, in addition to the lack of timely response to the problems of my farmers in the Northeast and Rhode Island, there is also the issue of the dairy compact. Failing to extend this undercuts a program that was working, a program that provided not only support to the dairy industry in my State but, frankly, provided consumers with milk at reasonable prices. It also provided tremendous environmental benefit to the State of Rhode Island and other States because of the pressure of development, particularly in the Northeast. Many of these dairy farms, given the choice of producing at a loss each year or selling out to developers, will sell out. In Rhode Island, the little green space we have becomes less and less and less. 
   For all these reasons, I must oppose this legislation. I hope in the remaining days of this session we can, in fact, find ways and other legislative vehicles, perhaps even a supplemental, to  direct assistance to the farmers throughout this country, including farmers in the Northeast, particularly in my home State of Rhode Island. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my support for the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. I believe the real question before us is whether or not the world will be safer with or without the nuclear test ban treaty. I believe we are safer. 
   From a very self-interested standpoint, if this treaty is adopted, it gives us the very real potential of locking all of our potential adversaries into permanent nuclear inferiority because they will not be able to conduct the sophisticated tests necessary to improve their technology, particularly when it comes to the miniaturization of nuclear warheads. It will, also, I think, contribute to an overall spirit which is advancing the cause of nuclear disarmament and also ending the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
   On the other side of the coin, if we step back from this treaty today and vote it down, I think we will set back this progress in trying to reduce nuclear arms throughout the world. All of us have come to this floor with different viewpoints, but I suspect we would all say the process we have undertaken is somewhat suspect. I spent 12 years in the Army, and I learned to grow up under the rule of ``hurry up and wait.'' Well, this process resembles ``wait and hurry up.'' The President submitted this treaty to the Senate over 2 years ago. Yet for months, no action was taken. Then last week, suddenly it was announced that we would conduct a very limited debate, that we would have hastily constructed hearings, and that we would move to a vote. 
   I think that process alone suggests that we wait, at least--as we consider more carefully this treaty to discharge our obligations under the Constitution--for a thorough and detailed analysis of all the consequences. Indeed, this is a very complex subject matter, as the debate on the floor today and preceding days has indicated. 
   I believe we need to take additional time. I hope we can take additional time. But if the measure were to come before this body for a vote, I would vote to support the treaty because, as I have said, I think passing this treaty would provide a safer world. Rejecting this treaty would, I think, disrupt dramatically any further attempts at a significant comprehensive reduction of nuclear weapons throughout the world. 
   I think it is somewhat naive to suggest that if this Senate rejected the treaty, we could simply go back next week and begin to negotiate again on different terms. I think we would be sending a very strong and dangerous signal to the world that we, rather than carefully considering this treaty, have rejected it almost outright. I think, also, together with other developments, such as our genuine attempts to look for a relaxation of the ABM Treaty, rejection could be construed as not suggesting we are serious about nuclear disarmament but, quite the contrary, that we ourselves are beginning to look at nuclear weapons and nuclear technology in a different light, a light less favorable. 
   Let me suggest something else. This treaty will not prevent us from testing our nuclear technology. It will prevent us, though, from conducting tests involving nuclear detonation. We can in fact go on and test our technology. We have been testing our technology constantly over the last 7 years without a nuclear detonation. 
   This treaty would not ban nuclear weapons. This treaty also would provide for an extensive regime of monitoring sites--over 300 in 90 countries. It would allow for onsite inspection if, in fact, a significant number of signatories to the treaty were convinced that a violation took place. These additional monitoring sites, together with the onsite inspections, are tools that do not exist today to curb the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the development of new nuclear weapons. 
   There has been some discussion about our ability to monitor the development of nuclear weapons and, indeed, to monitor clandestine tests of nuclear devices. I think the suggestion has 
   been made--and I think it is inaccurate--that a nuclear detonation could take place without anybody  knowing anything at all about it. That is not the case at all. Just last week, there was an article in the Washington Post entitled ``CIA Unable To Precisely Track Testing.'' If you read the article, it is clear that the CIA was able to detect two suspicious detonations at a Russian test site in the Arctic from seismic data and other monitoring devices. What they could not determine is whether this detonation was high explosives of a nonnuclear category or a nuclear detonation. But certainly we will have indications, if there is a clandestine test, that the possibility of a nuclear detonation has taken place. That alone will give us, I believe, the basis to go forward and ask for onsite inspections and for an explanation, to use the levers of this treaty which we do not have at this moment. 
   So the issue of verification, I think, is something that is quite obvious and prominent within this treaty, and the means of verification were discussed at length by my colleague from Nebraska who pointed out all the different techniques our intelligence service has to identify possible violations of this treaty and, with this treaty, to be able to press those violations in a world forum so we can ascertain whether the treaty has been adhered to or violated. 
   The whole notion of controlling nuclear testing is not new. Throughout this debate, my colleagues have discussed the initiatives that began as early as the 1950s with President Eisenhower. Then, in 1963, President Kennedy was able to sign, and the Senate ratified, the Limited Test Ban Treaty which outlawed nuclear explosions in the sea, atmosphere, and in outer space. In 1974, we entered into a treaty with the Soviet Union--the Threshold Test Ban Treaty--which prohibited underground testing with yields greater than 150 kilotons. In 1992, Congress passed the Hatfield-Exon-Mitchell amendment which called for a moratorium on testing. We are still observing today. 
   Also, I think it would be appropriate to point out that in fact for the last 7 years, we have not detonated nuclear devices. Yet each and every year, our scientists, the experts in the Department of Defense and Department of Energy, have certified that our nuclear stockpile is both safe and reliable. So the assertion that we can never assure the reliability and safety of our nuclear stockpile without testing has been disproven over the last 7 years. We have done that. 
   Now, I believe we can in fact maintain a nuclear stockpile that is both safe and reliable. We can do it using the new technology we are developing, including but not exclusively related to, computer simulations. We can do it by investing, as we are each year, billions of dollars--over $4 billion--so we can ensure that we have a safe nuclear stockpile and that these weapons would be reliable if we were forced to use them. 
   There is something else I think should be pointed out. This treaty has been endorsed and recommended to us by the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Secretary of Energy. These are individuals who take very seriously their responsibility for the national security of the United States. But some might suggest, well, they are part of this administration and we really know that, reading between the lines, their recommendation might not be as compelling as others. 
   But such logic would not suggest or explain why individuals such Gen. John Shalikashvili, a former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Gen. Colin Powell; Gen. David Jones; or Adm. William Crowe would in fact be supportive of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Nobody would suggest why other prominent military officers, such as John Galvin, former Supreme Allied Commander in Europe; Gen. Charles Horner, who commanded the air forces in Desert Storm; Bernard Rogers, another former Commander of NATO and Supreme Commander in Europe, would also recommend and support this treaty. These individuals are concerned about security and have spent their lives in uniform dedicated to the security of this Nation and the protection of our people. They believe, as I do, that this will be a safer world with this treaty rather than if we reject this treaty. With this treaty, I think we can curtail dramatically the development of nuclear weapons by opposing powers to the United States. 
   It is true that you can develop a nuclear weapon without a test. You can develop the unsophisticated rudimentary weapons that were used in World War II. But you cannot develop the sophisticated technology which is the key to strategic nuclear power without nuclear testing. 
   If we accept this treaty, if we join with other nations, then we will be in a much stronger position, and the world will be in a much stronger position, to ensure that countries such as India, Pakistan, and North Korea will be very challenged to develop the kind of sophisticated nuclear weapons that will alter the strategic balance throughout the world. That in and of itself, I believe, will make it a safer world. 
   Of course, the elimination of testing will have a positive environmental effect. Even though our tests now throughout the world are restricted underground, there is always the possibility of leakage of radioactive material. And we know how devastating that can be. 
   There are those who have been here today who argued that we should reject this treaty because it is not 100 percent verifiable. I would suggest that we can, in fact, verify this treaty--that 100 percent is not the standard we would reasonably use. As I have indicated previously, we have already detected what we suspect are suspicious detonations in Russia. We would be even better prepared to do that with 300 more monitoring stations in 90 countries around the world. In fact, we would then have an international forum to take our complaints and to force an explanation, and, if necessary, an onsite inspection of a test. 
   I think we have an obligation to carefully review and consider this treaty. I believe that we do. And that consideration would be enhanced by additional time. I think it would be appropriate to take additional time. But it would be a terrible, I think, disservice to the process of nuclear disarmament, of nuclear nonproliferation, and of a saner world if we were to reject this treaty out of hand. And the world is watching. 
   President Clinton was the first head of state to sign this treaty. One-hundred and fifty nations followed. Forty-one nations have ratified the treaty, and several more, including Russia, are waiting again for our lead in ratifying. Unless we are part of this treaty, this treaty will never go into effect because it requires all of the nuclear powers--those with nuclear weapons or with nuclear capabilities--to be a party to the treaty before it can go into effect. I hope we either in our wisdom consider this more, or in our wisdom accept ratifying this treaty. 
   Thirty-six years ago when the Limited Test Ban Treaty came to this floor, a great leader of this Senate, Senator Everett Dirksen, was one of the forces who decided to take a very bold step that was as equally daunting and challenging as the step we face today. His words were:  
   A young President calls this treaty the first step. I want to take a first step, Mr. President. One my age should think about his destiny a little. I should not like to have written on my tombstone, ``He knew what happened at Hiroshima, but he did not take a first step.''  
   The treaty is not the first step. But it is, I believe, the next logical step that we must take. I believe none of us want to look back and say that we were hesitant to take this step, that we were hesitant to continue the march away from the nuclear apocalypse to a much saner and a much safer world. 
   I yield my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to support the amendment sponsored by my colleague from New Mexico. I commend him for his commitment and dedication. 
   During the 1994 reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, I was a member of the other body. There I proposed an accountability amendment in committee which strengthened our oversight and accountability for title I and other elementary and secondary school programs. When we came to the conference, it was Senator JEFF BINGAMAN of New Mexico who was leading the fight on the Senate side to ensure accountability was part and parcel of the 1994 reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. I am pleased to work with him today on this very important amendment. 
   What we propose to do is to provide $200 million so the States can move from talking about accountability and intervening in low-performing schools to actually taking the steps to do just that. There are scarce Federal dollars that we provide for elementary and secondary education programs, the principal program being title I. Although we allocate $8 billion a year for title I, there still appears to be insufficient resources to ensure that accountability reforms and oversight are effectively taking place in our schools. 
   This amendment provides for those resources. It ensures we get the best value for the money we invest in title I. It allows schools to not only provide piecemeal services to students but to look and seek out ways to reform the way they educate the students in their classrooms. 
   We will continue as the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act approaches to stress this issue of accountability. But today we have an opportune moment to invest in accountability and school reform. What we find is that the States, either through lack of financial resources, lack of focus, or due to other commitments and priorities, are not intervening in low-performing and failing schools as they should. They are not directing the kind of school improvement teams, for example, that have been authorized under title I. This amendment gives them not only the incentive but the resources to do that. In effect, what we are trying to do is make title I not just a way to distribute money to low-income schools but to stimulate the reform and improvement of these schools. 
   It should be noted that the amendment targets the lowest performing schools to try to lift up those schools which are consistently failing their students. We all know if the schools are not working, these young people are not going to get the education they need and require to be productive citizens and workers and to contribute to our community and to our country. That is at the heart of all of our efforts on both sides of the aisle in the Senate. 
   It is vitally important to turn around the lowest performing and failing schools. The 1994 reauthorization focused attention in the States on accountability, improvement, and reform. 
   The States have taken steps to adopt accountability systems. But today we are here to give States and school districts the tools to ensure the job of turning around failing schools can be done effectively and completely. I urge passage of this amendment. 
   Once again, I commend the Senator from New Mexico for his leadership and look forward to working with him as we undertake the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act in the months ahead. 
   I yield whatever time I have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased that Chairman SPECTER and Ranking Member HARKIN as part of the managers amendment have included an additional $50 million for the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnership (LEAP) program. 
   I had offered an amendment to provide this level of funding along with Senators COLLINS, GORDON SMITH, SNOWE, JEFFORDS, KENNEDY, MURRAY, LEVIN, CONRAD, HUTCHINSON, DEWINE, CHAFEE, BINGAMAN, KERRY, FEINGOLD, and LAUTENBERG. 
   Since 1972, the Federal-State partnership now embodied by LEAP, with modest federal support, has helped states leverage grant aid to needy undergraduate and graduate students. 
   When this program was funded at greater than $25 million, nearly 700,000 students across the nation, including almost 12,000 students from my home state of Rhode Island, benefitted from LEAP grants. At $25 million, the amount included in the Committee's  original bill, we estimate that many of these students lose their grants. 
   Without this important federal incentive, many states would not have established or maintained their need-based financial aid programs, and many students would not have attended or completed college. 
   Indeed, as my colleagues, students, parents, and those involved in higher education know, the purchasing power of our main need-based aid program--the Pell Grant, created by and named for my predecessor, Senator Claiborne Pell--has fallen drastically in comparison to inflation and skyrocketing education costs. 
   Students have searched for other sources of need-based higher education grants and have come to rely on LEAP. 
   Two years ago, this program was on the brink of elimination. But it was this body which recognized the importance of LEAP and overwhelmingly voted--84 to 4--for an amendment I offered with my colleague from Maine, Senator COLLINS, to save it from elimination. 
   Then, just last year, the Senate reaffirmed its support for LEAP by approving the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998, which updated and added several key reforms to this program to leverage additional state dollars for grant aid. 
   Prior to the reforms, federal funding for LEAP was matched by the states only on a dollar for dollar basis. Now, every dollar appropriated over the $30 million level leverages two new state dollars. 
   States in turn gain new flexibility to use these funds to provide a broader array of higher education assistance to needy students, such as increasing grant amounts or carrying out community service work-study activities; early intervention, mentorship, and career education programs; secondary to postsecondary education transition programs; scholarship programs for students wishing to enter the teaching profession; and financial aid programs for students wishing to enter careers in information technology or other fields of study determined by the state to be critical to the state's workforce needs. 
   The $25 million included in the Committee's bill falls far short of the funding level necessary to increase student aid and trigger the reforms included in the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998. 
   In fact, LEAP, if funded at $75 million, as called for in our amendment, would leverage at least $120 million in new state funding--thereby securing almost $200 million in grant aid for our nation's neediest students. 
   Let me emphasize, LEAP is the only federal aid program that contains this leveraging component. It is the only program for needy college students that is a state-federal partnership. 
   The bill does provide increased funding for many of the other student aid programs, but without providing additional funding for LEAP, the Senate will miss an opportunity to expand access to college and make higher education more affordable for some of our neediest students. 
   LEAP is a vital part of our student aid package, which includes Pell Grants, Work Study, and SEOG, that make it possible for deserving students to achieve their higher education goals. All of the student aid programs must be well-funded if they are truly going to help students. 
   Moreover, since there are no federal administrative costs connected with LEAP, all grant funds go directly to students, making it one of the most efficient federal financial aid programs. 
   All higher education and student groups support $75 million in funding for LEAP, including the American Council on Education (ACE), the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), the National Association of State Student Grant and Aid Programs (NASSGAP), the United States Student Association (USSA), and the U.S. Public Interest Research Group (USPIRG). 
   By providing $75 million for LEAP, the Senate has an opportunity to help states leverage even more dollars to help students go to college. As college costs continue to grow, and as the grant-loan imbalance continues to widen--just 25 years ago, 80% of student aid came in the form of grants and 20% in the form of loans; now the opposite is true--funding for LEAP is more important than ever. 
   I thank Chairman SPECTER and ranking member HARKIN for their willingness to accept this amendment. I look forward to working with them during the Conference to retain this level of funding, which is critical to providing greater access to higher education for our Nation's neediest students. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to submit a resolution which would designate October 24-30, as ``National Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Week.'' Despite steady progress over the past two decades to regulate inappropriate uses of lead, the tragedy of childhood lead poisoning remains very real for nearly one million preschoolers in the U.S. 
   Most children are poisoned in their own homes by deteriorating lead-based paint and lead-contaminated dust. While lead poisoning crosses all barriers of race, income, and geography, most of the burden of this disease falls disproportionately on low-income families or families of color who generally live in older, poorer quality housing. In the United States, children from low-income families are eight times more likely to be poisoned than those from high income families. African American children are five times more likely to be poisoned than white children. Nationwide, almost 22 percent of African American children living in older housing are lead poisoned, a staggering statistic, particularly given the overall decline in blood lead levels in the last decade. 
   Unfortunately, many communities have not experienced a major decline in blood lead levels. In fact, in some communities, more than half of the preschool children are lead poisoned. Baltimore, Providence, Philadelphia, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and Chicago all have lead poisoning rates that are three to nine times the national average. 
   Even low levels of exposure to lead impair a child's ability to learn and thrive, causing reductions in IQ and attention span, reading and other learning disabilities, hyperactivity, aggressive behavior, hearing loss, and coordination problems. These effects are persistent and interfere with their success in school and later in life. Research shows that children with elevated blood lead levels are seven times more likely to drop out of high school and six times more likely to have reading disabilities. State health officials believe that the need for certain education services is 40 percent higher among children with significant lead exposure. 
   Mr. President, lead poisoning is entirely preventable, making its prevalence among children all the more frustrating. In addition, lead poisoning has many dimensions, and therefore we have to tackle it from all directions. Specifically, our efforts should include screening and treating poisoned children, identifying and removing the source of their exposure, educating parents, landlords and entire communities about the dangers of lead, and ensuring that resources to address the problem are available and accessible to all who need them. 
   I have been working on a number of initiatives in the Senate to address this problem including urging Senate leaders to provide for more funding for lead abatement. Last year, I sponsored an amendment that resulted in an increase of $20 million in funding to eliminate lead hazards in the homes of young children. This year, the Senate has supported a similar figure. 
   Also, I have become deeply concerned, along with my colleague Senator TORRICELLI, about recent reports that children at risk for lead poisoning are not adequately screened or treated for the disease, even if they are enrolled in Medicaid. Although children enrolled in Medicaid are three times more likely than other children to have high amounts of lead in their blood, the General Accounting Office (GAO) recently reported that less than 20 percent of these young children have been screened for lead poisoning. Even more disconcerting is that half of the states do not have screening policies that are consistent with federal requirements. For this reason, we have introduced the Children's Lead SAFE Act (S. 1120) to ensure that all children at risk of lead poisoning receive their required screenings and appropriate follow-up care by holding states accountable. 
   Mr. President, I have been working on making important, yet common-sense, policy changes to ensure that children are screened and treated for lead poisoning and to provide critical funding for leadsafe housing. Beyond these efforts, I believe we need to take further steps to raise pubic awareness about the dangers of lead poisoning. Last month, Senator COLLINS and I hosted a Public Health Subcommittee hearing in Rhode Island to highlight the importance of the issue and to hear about the successful approaches undertaken by organizations in my home state to address the problem. We plan to hold a similar hearing in Maine next month. Because lead poisoning is a national problem, we believe it deserves national attention. 
   That is why Senator COLLINS and I, along with 26 original co-sponsors are introducing this bipartisan resolution that would commemorate the week of October 24-30, 1999 as ``National Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Week.'' Designation of a national week for lead poisoning prevention would raise public awareness about the issue and highlight the need to protect children from lead poisoning to ensure their healthy development. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank Senator KENNEDY for those kind words, and also for offering this very important amendment. I am a very proud cosponsor of this amendment with Senator KENNEDY. 
   Last Congress, on an overwhelming bipartisan vote the Senate passed the Teacher Quality Enhancement Grants program as part of the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998. This was the first time we looked seriously at reforming the way our teachers are trained by enhancing the linkage between teacher colleges and elementary and secondary schools. 
   What we tried to emphasize is the connection between the teacher colleges and the real-life experiences of teachers in the classroom. The best way to enhance the quality of teaching in America is at the level of the entry teacher. 
   This is something the Kennedy-Reed amendment will provide more resources for. What we want to do is form a strong, vibrant, and vital link between the teacher colleges and the elementary and secondary schools. We want to ensure that teachers who leave teacher colleges are not just experts in theoretical and pedagogical subjects. We want them to be, first and foremost, experts on the subject matter that they teach, be it mathematics or science or any other subject. In addition, we want to ensure that they have extensive clinical experience. 
   The model to follow is our medical education system. No one would dream of certifying and licensing a physician after simply going to school and hearing lectures and then maybe having 2 or 3 weeks in a hospital. It is a long-term, extensive clinical education. That model is applicable also, I believe, to education. 
   In fact, what we have found from our hearings is a disconnect between what teaching students are learning in college and the reality of the teaching experience in the classroom. We want to eliminate that disconnect. 
   The Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998 sought to do just that by authorizing partnerships between teacher colleges and elementary and secondary schools. There are examples of partnerships that already existed and inspired us; examples such as Salve Regina University in my home State of Rhode Island, which has a partnership with the Sullivan School in Newport. It is exciting and challenging, not only to the young students in that school, but also to the prospective teachers who learn a great deal. In fact, at the heart of these partnerships is the attempt not only to change the culture of elementary and secondary schools but also to change the culture of teacher colleges. 
   Too often the teacher college in a great university is a poor cousin without a great endowment, neglected by other parts of the university. What we want to do is get the university involved in this great effort so that professors in the math, English, and history departments are also part of this great reawakening of teacher preparation at the university level. This cultural change at the college level, together with extensive clinical involvement with local elementary and secondary schools, I believe, is a fundamental way to enhance the quality of teachers. 
   The Kennedy-Reed amendment will provide more resources to do this very important and critical job that lies before us. We have gone through the first  round of grants with respect to the partnership grants. The Department of Education funded $33 million in the first round to 25 institutions of higher education and their elementary and secondary school partners. This is a first and important step, but we need to do more. That is precisely what this amendment proposes to do. It will appropriate additional resources so we can broaden dramatically these partnerships, as well as increase our investment in the state and recruitment grants also included in the Teacher Quality Enhancement Grants program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent for an additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator. 
   If we, in fact, pass this amendment, we will be able to fund up to 100 additional partnership, state, and recruitment grant proposals, thereby enabling this important innovation in teacher preparation to be accessible throughout our nation. 
   I am strongly supportive of this amendment. I think it is something that will allow us to make great progress. Once again, emphasizing a point made so well by Senator KENNEDY, if you look at public education, and if you search for the most powerful lever that we have to improve it, to reform it, and to continue it as an excellent system, teacher training is that lever. 
   This amendment will give us the power to move forward, dramatically and decisively to improve the quality of teaching in the United States. I strongly support it and commend the Senator from Massachusetts for his efforts. 
   I yield back to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank Senator KENNEDY. 
   Let me emphasize one additional point that bears repeating. The classroom today is very different from those in the 1950s or 1960s--different because of technology; different because families are in much more distressed conditions in many parts of the country; different because of the various cultural factors that go into the makeup of many classes, particularly in urban America. In fact, we are still teaching in too many colleges as if it were the class of 1950, as if it were the time of ``My Three Sons'' and ``Leave It To Beaver.'' 
   That is not what American education is today. What we have to do today--and this amendment will help immensely--is refocus our teacher training to confront the issues of today, such as multiculturalism, children with disabilities in the classroom, and technology. This is absolutely critical. Unless we enhance our commitment to this type of education--partnerships between schools of education and elementary and secondary schools, drawing on the resources of the whole university, focusing these resources on new technology and the challenges that are particular to this time in our history--we are not going to succeed in educating all of our children to the world-class standards that we all know have to be met. 
   I urge passage of this very important amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-7-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-8-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask that amendment No. 1866 be called up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-9-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-10-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this amendment is a result of a tragic accident in my home State of Rhode Island where a young worker on a farm was killed accidentally. 
   The police came immediately and determined that there was no foul play and concluded their investigation. But the parents were deeply concerned because no one could explain to them what happened. 
   As we looked into the matter for them, we discovered that for many years, because of a rider on this appropriations bill, OSHA has been prohibited from investigating deaths on farms that employ 10 or fewer workers. 
   If this terrible, tragic accident had taken place in a McDonald's, OSHA would be there. There would be an investigation. They would discover the cause. They would suggest remedies. They would do what most Americans expect should be done when an accident takes place in the workplace. But because of this small farm rider, OSHA is powerless to investigate. 
   I think it is wrong. I think it is wrong not only because these parents don't know what circumstances took the life of their child, but they also regret that it might happen again because there might be some type of systematic flaw or some type of problematic process on the farm that could also claim the life of another youngster. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-11-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-12-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me continue. 
   My amendment would simply state that OSHA has the authority to conduct an inspection when a minor, someone under 18 years of age, is killed on a farm regardless of the size of the farm, but they would also be prevented from levying any type of fine or enforcement action. Their role would be very simple and very direct: Find the cause of the action; then, not with respect to that particular farm, not with respect to any particular sanction of penalty, generally, if they can learn something that would help protect the lives of others, they would incorporate that, of course, in their overall directions and regulations for farming and other activities. 
   These goals are very simple and straightforward: Identify the cause of the accident so that the employer knows what steps are needed to prevent similar deaths, and make that information available so that other farmers can take steps to avert similar tragedies. 
   This is not an academic or arcane issue because there are numerous youngsters working on farms. There are also in the United States about 500 work-related deaths reported each year. Moreover, although only 8 percent of all workers under the age of 18 are employed in agriculture, more than 40 percent of the work-related deaths among young people occur in the agricultural industry. 
   So this is an issue of importance. 
   Let me stress something else. This particular amendment would only apply if the individual youngster was, in fact, an employee of the farm. This would not affect a situation where a son or daughter are doing chores around the farm. This is a situation when someone is hired to work on the farm, and that person is involved in a fatal accident. 
   I think it is only fair because I believe the parents in America, when they send their children into the workplace--be it a supermarket or McDonald's or a farm, large or small--expect their children will at least have the coverage of many of the safety laws we have in place; but failing that, at least we will have the power, the authority, the ability to determine what happened in the case of a fatal accident. 
   This proposal is not unique to the situation I found in Rhode Island. The National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Science, issued a report entitled ``Protecting Youth at Work,'' and among the recommendations:  
   To ensure the equal protection of children and adolescents from health and safety hazards in agriculture, Congress should take an examination of the effects and feasibility of extending all relevant Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations to agricultural workers, including subjecting small farms to the same level of OSHA enforcement as that apply to other small businesses.  
   My proposal goes not to that great length, not to that extreme. It is much more constrained and limited. It simply says when there is a fatality involving an employee under 18 years of age on a farm--small or large--OSHA can conduct an inspection to determine the cause and perhaps propose remedial actions but cannot invoke any type of sanction or fine. 
   That is the height of reasonableness, given the experiences we have seen, given the report of the National Academy of Science, given all of these factors. 
   I believe this should be done. In fact, it is long overdue. It is simple justice, not only for the families of those youngsters who are fatally injured on these small farms, but also it will give us the impetus to save lives in the future. 
   Some have criticized this amendment as potentially imposing an undue burden on small farms. This is erroneous criticism. There is no burden here other than facing up to the facts and finding out what happened. Indeed, I believe knowledge is power; if we know what caused these accidents, we can prevent them and, even, I hope, make the operators of these farms more conscious of what they are doing, particularly as they employ youngsters. 
   This is an amendment I believe is important; it is critical. I offered a variation on this amendment in the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions when we were considering  the SAFE Act. We had a vigorous debate but, I will admit, it met resistance. 
   I believe passionately we can do something and we must do something. I also recognize this process will not end today, that in the last few hours or moments of this debate it is unlikely this amendment will pass. I will, as I indicated to the Senator from Pennsylvania, withdraw the amendment. Such withdrawal does not signify retreat by me on this issue. I will continue to look for ways in which we can have investigations of fatalities on small farms, not because of any animus toward large or small farms but because when someone loses a child, I believe they deserve an answer. What happened? How did it happen? How can other children be spared from such a fatality? 
   In that spirit, I will continue to advance this issue and look for additional ways we can get an investigation. Again, the emphasis is not on being punitive; the emphasis is on being, first of all, fair to the family; and second, of being remedial so we can address problems that may be systematic and prevalent not just on the site of the particular fatality but endemic and systematic throughout the farming community. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Madam President, I rise to address an issue of great importance for our Nation's environment and economic security. 
   Today the Senate will pass the fiscal year 2000 Transportation Appropriations bill. In that bill, for the fifth year in a row, is a House-passed rider that would block the Department of Transportation from conducting a legislatively-mandated study of Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards. 
   The current CAFE standard for passenger cars is 27.5 miles per gallon, while the standard for so-called ``light trucks'', including SUVs and minivans, remains at just 20.7 miles per gallon. Today, with SUVs and minivans accounting for almost half of all new cars sold in the United States, we need to give serious consideration to improving fuel economy standards for these vehicles. By doing so, we could cut harmful air pollution, help curb global warming, and reduce the amount of gasoline we consume. The existing CAFE standards save more than 3 million barrels of oil every day. Improving these standards, particularly for light trucks, is especially important when our nation is importing increasing amounts of oil every year. 
   For the past four years, Congress has denied the American people access to existing technologies that could save them thousands of dollars at the gas pump, technologies that the auto industry could implement with no reduction in safety, power, or performance. 
   The House rider blocking consideration of improved CAFE standards was attached to the DOT spending bill without any hearings or debate. While I will not object to passage of this important appropriations measure today, I want to state in the strongest terms my disappointment, shared by many of my colleagues, that the statutory requirement to study ways to improve fuel efficiency standards is being blocked. 
   We should lift this gag order and give the Department of Transportation the opportunity to consider this important issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19991001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the city of Pawtucket, Rhode Island's celebration of October as Polish American Heritage Month. 
   Famous leaders, musicians and scientists of Polish descent have made numerous contributions to society. Pope John II, of Wadowice, Poland was the first non-Italian Pope chosen by the Roman Catholic Church in more than 400 years. Fryderyk Chopin of Zelazowa Wola, Poland is remembered for his unique approach to the piano and is considered one of the greatest composers of all time. Marie Curie, of Warsaw, Poland was awarded a Nobel Prize for physics in 1903 and in 1911, a second Nobel Prize for chemistry. Madame Curie is still the only woman in history to be awarded two Nobel Prizes. 
   The Polish heritage is so alive today because Polish Americans play an active role in their cities, towns and communities. Millions of Polish immigrants have settled in cities like Pawtucket all across America. The Polish people brought their traditions, faith and pride to communities across the country and established schools, churches and organizations to help celebrate their heritage in America. With over 47,000 people of Polish descent in Rhode Island alone, one cannot talk about the history of Rhode Island or the history of America without recognizing the contributions of people of Polish descent. 
   Therefore, I urge my colleagues to join with the Polish community of Pawtucket in celebrating the city's Polish American Heritage Month.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of Senator MURRAY's amendment to provide funding for the class size reduction initiative. 
   Last year, the Congress, on a bipartisan basis, made a down payment to help communities hire 100,000 teachers so they could reduce class sizes to an average of 18. 
   As Tennessee's efforts with class size reduction show, qualified teachers in small classes can provide students with more individualized attention, spend more time on instruction and less on other tasks, and cover more material effectively, and are better able to work with parents to further their children's education. 
   The class size reduction initiative is flexible, and communities are using innovative locally-designed approaches to give children the individual attention they need. 
   Every state is using the funds, and every state that needed a waiver to tailor the class size reduction program to its specific needs or to expand class size reduction to other grades, received one. 
   1.7 million children are benefitting from smaller classes this year. 
   29,000 teachers have been hired with FY99 Class Size Reduction funds. 
   1,247 (43 percent) are teaching in the first grade, reducing class sizes from 23 to 17. 
   6,670 (23 percent) are teaching in the second grade, reducing class size from 23 to 18. 
   6,960 (24 percent) are teaching in the third grade, reducing class size from 24 to 18. 
   2,900 (10 percent) are in kindergarten and grades 4-12. 
   290 special education teachers were hired. 
   On average, 7 percent of the funds are being used for professional development. 
   Mr. President, the debate is not a simple either/or proposition on class size versus teacher quality. We need to do both. That is why last year on an overwhelming bipartisan vote we passed a new teacher quality grants program as part of the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998. Indeed, those who claim they support improvements in teacher quality have a clear chance to do so when Senator KENNEDY and I offer an amendment to fully fund the teacher quality grants at $300 million. 
   We must continue to meet the bipartisan commitment we made on class size reduction. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the Murray amendment to do just that and reject the Gorton amendment which could result in children being forced to return to larger classes and the firing of 29,000 newly hired teachers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of Senator KERRY's amendment. Also, I recognize the very thoughtful analysis that Chairman BOND has done about the budget problems that face this committee as it struggles to fill many different needs in the area of housing. 
   All this discussion underscores a very fundamental question that transcends all of our considerations in the Senate and that is, we have many unfulfilled obligations in the country which make us very wary of significant reductions in our revenues and significant changes in policy until we address these very fundamental concerns: 
   How would we provide going forward with resources so every American can have a safe, decent, affordable home? 
   I also agree with Senator BOND that we have to do a lot more in terms of construction policies, in terms of encouraging the creation of housing units. But the section 8 program is particularly critical to so many people throughout this country. 
   I think it is also very important to note that this is one of those very significant and very efficient combinations of public purpose and private enterprise because we are not, in most cases, operating at public facilities these housing units. They are private housing units which are receiving, through the section 8 subsidies, supports which are available to low-income people--again, a very efficient, very effective way to use very scarce Federal resources to allow individual Americans access to safe and decent housing. 
   I think we have to, in this situation--even recognizing the significant budgetary constraints--move forward because this is one of those situations where if we make the commitment we will find a way to fund it. 
   I think the essence of Senator KERRY's amendment is: Let's make this commitment. Let's make this commitment this year again to expand the section 8 voucher program so we can offer the real possibility of safe, decent, affordable housing to more citizens of this country. 
   I, too, agree with Senator BOND's analysis, which I have been listening to intently over the last several days, about the need to go deeper with our targeting for the low-income housing tax credit program, to support the HOME program, to support the CDBG program. All of these contribute to the housing market, to the availability of  adequate, decent housing for all of our citizens. All of them will contribute to the solution of the dilemma facing us all: How do we provide affordable, decent, safe housing for all of our citizens? 
   I support very strongly Senator KERRY's amendment and commend him for doing this. I also commend, as I have said before, both Senators BOND and MIKULSKI for their great efforts to try to work through this very difficult thicket. 
   Let me, before I conclude, also raise another topic which I have addressed previously on the floor; that is, the staffing level within the Department of HUD, but in particular the HUD Community Builders Fellowship. I must confess I did not know too much about this particular program until we began this debate. But it has come to my knowledge this is an innovative program which is essentially selecting through some very rigorous means professionals in the area of urban policy planning, housing policy, to spend 2 years as a fellow at the Department of HUD after training at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, to try to create an entrepreneurial spirit in HUD, to go beyond the box to create new opportunities in housing. Then these individuals, having served their fellowship, have the opportunity to go back to their communities and take these skills, this training, and their expertise and again contribute to their communities. 
   I think it is a worthwhile program. But I am prompted to speak not so much because of what I have heard on this floor but because of what I am hearing back in Rhode Island as a result of the success of this program. Stephen O'Rourke is the executive director of the Providence Housing Authority. He is a tough-minded administrator who stepped into a difficult situation decades ago in a housing 
   authority that was crumbling, both physically and in terms of its management style, a housing authority that was beset with all the problems of urban cities--crime, drug use, violence, dilapidated units--and he has done a remarkable job. He has done it by being hard-nosed, aggressive. I suspect people would probably characterize his approach as ``tough love.'' And it has worked. 
   He has seen every fad and fancy in housing in the last two decades. He has taken it upon himself to communicate with the regional HUD office, commending the Community Builders Fellowship Program. In fact, in his words:  
   I find their enthusiasm and ``can-do'' attitude infectious. They constitute a new, special breed of government workers.  
   When I start hearing about that kind of performance from a local official, I think there is something here we cannot discard totally. 
   In Rhode Island, this program is working to do things that people have wanted to do for years. But they have never been able to think outside the box or cross the bureaucratic lines of organization to get the job done. These fellows are doing that. They started a statewide ownership center so we can do what I think we all want to see--get people into their own homes. 
   They are working with the Welfare-to-Work Program to develop an innovative program where a housing authority is sponsoring a microbusiness, a van service, that not only employs individuals but contributes to one of the most significant issues facing people making the transfer from welfare to work--how do you physically get to work? This van service helps that. 
   These are the types of out-of-the-box, innovative, entrepreneurial solutions we should encourage and not discourage. There have been several preliminary assessments of the program. 
   Anderson Consulting company has looked at the program and has concluded that it has a positive effect on the ability of HUD customers to conduct their business and get the job done. Ernst & Young has interviewed many people involved in this program. They, too, are convinced. These are their words:  
   They consider Community Builders to be responsive to their concerns and timely in addressing them.  
   Finally, the individuals at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government who were training these professionals believe the program is worthwhile. So I think at this juncture, after barely a year of experience, to totally eliminate the program is the wrong approach. 
   The other aspect we should know is that HUD has already seen significant reductions in its personnel rolls from 13,000 to 9,300. In fact, both GAO and the HUD IG are arguing that perhaps they have reached the limits of cuts that can be made reasonably. There is no way we can demand a new reformed, reinvigorated, entrepreneurial HUD if they do not have physically the men and women to hold the jobs and to do the jobs. If this program is eliminated totally, as proposed in this appropriation, 81 communities throughout the country will be affected, including Providence, RI, and others. In fact, for the sheer lack of personnel, many significant functions of HUD will be lost if this program is abandoned. If we are asking HUD to be more efficient, more effective, more customer conscious, I do not think at this juncture we should eliminate a program that shows promise. 
   There also has been a suggestion on the floor that there are some internal criticisms. There was reference, I think, to the Commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, of Mr. Apgar's criticism. He, in fact, indicates there is potential for this program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Again, this is an example of a program that has great potential. I think it would be unfortunate to eliminate it in its first year of operation. Let us step back objectively and review it, look at it, and make a judgment. I think that judgment, based on what I am hearing from my home State of Rhode Island, would be a very favorable one. So I urge reconsideration of this program to go forward. 
   Again, I thank Senator KERRY for his leadership on this issue of Section 8. I recognize the difficulty both Senators BOND and MIKULSKI face, but this might be an issue, when it comes to section 8--particularly if we move forward boldly to serve the people who sent us here--we will find the means to do that. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I join my colleague, Senator SARBANES, and commend both Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI for their extraordinary work in trying to fashion an appropriations bill under very difficult fiscal constraints and to meet the demands for so many different programs. 
   I, too, am concerned that the amount of resources devoted to the Department of Housing and Urban Development is not sufficient to meet the demands for all Americans for adequate and safe housing. I am also concerned that some of the reductions in staffing may impair the operations of HUD in the delivery of effective services to Americans throughout the country. 
   Again, I recognize the extraordinary conflicting demands that both Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI faced and the remarkable job they have done in fashioning the bill to date. It is my hope that as we go into conference, we can find additional resources to address two critical issues. First and foremost is access to affordable housing for all of our citizens. There is, in fact, an affordable housing crisis throughout this country. The second issue, as I mentioned before, is related to the issue of staffing at HUD. 
   Let me talk about the crisis that many Americans face with regard to affordable housing. As Senator SARBANES articulated, there is a request within the President's budget for 100,000 new vouchers that will allow individuals to move into adequate, decent, and safe housing. It is estimated that there are 5.3 million households in the United States that suffer from 
   worst-case housing needs. These needs, as has previously been explained, are either the fact that the family is paying more than 50 percent of their income for housing or that they are living in very substandard housing. This is not an academic problem anywhere in the United States; it is a real problem. In Rhode Island, for example, it is estimated that there are 23,000 families suffering worst-case housing needs. They are spending a huge amount of their income simply to find a place to live. Sometimes these places are inadequate. Others are in places in which, frankly, we would not live, nor would we want to see anyone else live. So we do have a problem. This problem is worsening. 
   We used to build affordable housing units at a fairly substantial rate. Between 1979 and 1980, we built a significant number of houses. That was a trend that had begun all through the 1970s. In the 1980s, we essentially stopped building affordable housing throughout this country. In 1995, the Government went further and stopped issuing any additional rental vouchers for needy Americans. So as a result, predictably and understandably, we have a shortage of decent, affordable housing throughout the United States. 
   This problem of a lack of supply has been further exacerbated by a booming economy that is driving up the price of everything, including the price of houses. So we have limited housing stock and increased demands. We have accelerating prices. We have families that are in crisis. 
   Last year we authorized 100,000 new vouchers--I commend the leadership for doing that--but still there are more than 1 million Americans on waiting lists for public housing or for section 8 vouchers. They are not waiting for days or weeks; the average waiting time for section 8 vouchers in our country is 28 months. In most large cities, the waiting time is much longer. For example, in Philadelphia, the waiting time is 11 years. In Cincinnati, it is 10 years. In Los Angeles, it is 8 years. In my own home State of Rhode Island, the average waiting time for public housing is not quite that severe, but it is still 7 months. That is a long time for a family to wait to get into public housing. In addition, there is a long waiting list and waiting period for section 8 vouchers. That is estimated to be months and months, if not years. 
   So we have a problem we have to address. In light of this great problem, we should this year, once again, authorize at a minimum 100,000 new rental assistance vouchers. We haven't done that. We haven't been able to do that in this particular appropriations bill. I hope in the conference we can, in fact, achieve that objective. Even if we do that, we will not be totally satisfying the tremendous housing needs of the American people, but at least it will be another forward step in that appropriate march to a goal of adequate, safe, decent, and affordable housing for all of our citizens. 
   The second issue I will mention is the issue of staffing in the Department of HUD; in particular, the Community Builders Program. My colleague, Senator SARBANES, mentioned the concerns that I, too, share. This is a program which is now, under this legislation, scheduled to be eliminated. It has only been in operation for about a year. We haven't given it a chance to operate. If, in fact, we eliminate this program, not only will we miss the opportunity to truly and effectively evaluate this program, we will also take away many of the workers who are doing all the work in some of the regional and district offices of HUD. We will effectively impair the ability of HUD to deliver their services, and that is not something we want to do. 
   There are reports already that the cuts HUD has made in their staffing--and they have been significant over the last several years--have reached a point where both GAO and the IG at HUD are questioning whether or not HUD has reduced too many employees. In this context, where they have already made significant reductions and where we have a new program that shows some promise, although there has been some criticism, I think it is premature to eliminate the Community Builders Program. 
   I hope we will study it carefully, evaluate it objectively, make changes, if necessary, but certainly not at this juncture eliminate a program that deserves, I think, additional time to prove its worth and merit. 
   Let me conclude by thanking Senators BOND and MIKULSKI for their extraordinary work. Also, I will work with them over the next several weeks and months in conference to see if we can find and dedicate these resources to addressing many of the issues I have raised. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Ms. MIKULSKI addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk which I ask be called up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me thank my colleague, Senator FEINGOLD from Wisconsin, who was here before but graciously allowed me to go ahead to introduce this amendment. 
   Also, having come to the floor earlier today and not only commended Chairman BOND and ranking member MIKULSKI for their valiant efforts to reach priorities in very limited financial circumstances, I will announce up front I am going to propose this amendment which would increase lead funding as a means to talk about the issue, but I will withdraw the amendment in recognition of not only the serious efforts the chairman and ranking member have made, but also in recognition that last year when I came to the floor, both Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI were instrumental in increasing the appropriation by $20 million and, indeed, holding that appropriation at conference. So I am very confident, with their efforts, they will continue to work hard to make sure this remains a critical priority. 
   The problem of lead exposure to children in the United States is something that I believe is critical, one that we must address. I have been supported in that opinion by many of my colleagues. 
   Earlier this year, 14 of my colleagues joined me in a letter urging the chairman and the ranking member to do all they can to increase appropriations for lead abatement in this appropriations bill. Those colleagues include Senators JEFFORDS, SPECTER, LEAHY, LAUTENBERG, CHAFEE--my colleague from Rhode Island--SCHUMER, DODD, LIEBERMAN, KERRY, BOXER, KOHL, SNOWE, TORRICELLI, and DURBIN. All of them from across this country recognize the critical need to eliminate lead exposure, particularly with respect to children. 
   But there are two of my colleagues who deserve particular praise. Senator COLLINS and Senator TORRICELLI are cosponsors of this amendment. Senator COLLINS has been a strong and very effective advocate for this program of lead abatement. 
   I was pleased to join her in Providence, RI, several weeks ago for a hearing of the Public Health Subcommittee, where we looked at lead paint exposure to children in Rhode Island. It was a very good hearing. I am pleased to say I will be able to join Senator COLLINS in Maine in a few weeks to have a similar hearing. 
   Senator TORRICELLI and myself have been very active not only with respect to this issue but also with respect to the issue of appropriate screening and treatment for children who have elevated levels of lead in their blood systems. 
   I admit that over the last 20 years we have made significant progress in our society with respect to exposure to lead principally because we have banned lead paint, we have banned lead solder in food cans, and we have deleaded gasoline. This has resulted in significant reductions. 
   But, nevertheless, nearly a million children enter kindergarten each year with elevated levels of lead in their blood. This is a preventable problem. This is a problem, if it is not prevented, that causes serious cognitive development problems with children. This is also a problem that is not exclusive to one part of the country. 
   In fact, if you look at cities across the country, you will see there are elevated blood lead levels in children. 
   In Baltimore, for example, there is a lead poisoning rate of 27.9 percent. Almost 30 percent of the children who are tested have elevated lead levels. In Milwaukee, 22.5 percent; St. Louis, 23 percent; Chicago, 20.6 percent; Philadelphia, 38 percent; and Memphis, 12.1 percent. This is a nationwide problem. The major cause of this exposure is lead paint in the homes of these children. 
   Indeed, children who are in low-income circumstances, particularly children who are living in housing that was constructed before 1974, are significantly vulnerable to lead exposure and lead poisoning. 
   More than half the U.S. housing stock was built prior to 1978, so as a result we have thousands and thousands of units that still contain lead paint which is the source of contamination for these young children. 
   In fact, it has been estimated that 20 million housing units throughout the United States contain hazardous levels of lead paint. 
   In my home State of Rhode Island, it is estimated that about 90,000 units present moderate to high lead paint exposure risks to children who live there. 
   This is a very difficult and expensive problem to deal with. It has been estimated that to modify and to remediate all these homes in my own home State, it would cost about $300 million. To deal with every seriously contaminated residential unit in the United States would cost something on the order of $500 billion. But those costs also must be measured against the cost of doing nothing, the cost of allowing children to be exposed to lead paint, and those costs are dramatic and severe. 
   Many educators point to lead paint exposure as one of the reasons why special education costs are so high. In  fact, it has been estimated that children with elevated levels of lead in their blood are seven times more likely to drop out of school before finishing high school. These costs are significant and severe. I think we have the obligation to try to remedy this problem before these children are exposed, before their academic, intellectual, and emotional development is impaired by exposure to lead. 
   Since 1992, the Office of Lead Hazard Control in HUD has been dealing with this issue, principally through their Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control Grant Program. They have been able, since 1993, to provide $435 million to the States--31 States and the District of Columbia--to deal with this issue. 
   These States have used the money for testing young people for exposure, inspecting and testing homes, modifying homes; in fact, to even relocate children who are exposed and the home cannot be modified. 
   I have seen the results in Rhode Island. 
   Since 1993, in Rhode Island, we have been able to perform lead abatement in more than 500 homes. But it costs money, the kind of resources that we need to incorporate in this bill, the kind of resources that are necessary to address a problem that spans this Nation. 
   My amendment would propose an increase of $20 million for the Office of Lead Hazard Control. It would be offset by an across-the-board cut in salaries, expenses, and other program management budget items in the HUD budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I again thank the chairman and the ranking member and yield the floor. 
   Mr. FEINGOLD addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded so I can speak on the pending amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the Gorton-Bryan-Feinstein-Reed sense-of-the-Senate resolution that is being considered today. 
   As my colleagues have stated, our resolution calls on the House of Representatives to drop a rider which they have incorporated in the Transportation appropriations bill that effectively blocks the Department of Transportation from studying ways to improve the corporate average fuel economy standards for vehicles in the United States. These standards are currently referred to as the CAFE standards. 
   The current CAFE standard for passenger cars is 27.5 miles per gallon, while the standard for the so-called light trucks is just 20.7 miles per gallon. 
   A few years ago, this lower standard for trucks might have been less critical, but what we have seen over the last several years has been an explosion in the popularity of SUVs, sport utility vehicles. They are seen in places that are more akin to shopping malls than the rugged terrain for which originally they were designed. SUVs and minivans are everywhere. 
   As a result, we have to take a serious look at whether this light truck exemption makes sense, given the current 
   marketplace. Their impact--these SUVs and minivans--on the air we breathe and on the amount of gasoline we consume, including increasing amounts of imported gasoline, cannot be ignored. 
   We know this is a simple law of supply and demand. When you have many more vehicles subject to lower CAFE standards on the road, the demand for gasoline goes up, the price of gasoline  goes up, and the amount of gasoline that is consumed goes up, all of which ultimately affects our atmosphere. 
   In my State of Rhode Island alone, it is estimated that consumers face about $39 million in excess annual fuel costs because of this light truck loophole. Nevertheless, the CAFE freeze rider has been inserted into the House DOT spending bill every year for the past 4 years. Each time that happens, Congress denies the American people the benefits of fuel-saving technologies that already exist, technologies that the auto industry could implement with no reduction in safety, power, or performance. 
   The existing CAFE standards save more than 3 million barrels of oil every day. If we did not have these standards, we would be paying much more for oil and strategically we would be much more vulnerable in terms of our oil supply from around the world. Each year, these CAFE standards reduce pollution by keeping millions of tons of carbon dioxide out of our atmosphere. 
   Shouldn't we at least give the Department of Transportation the chance to study this issue? That is at the essence of our request--not that we should move immediately or precipitously to the adoption of new standards but at least give the Department of Transportation the opportunity to study particularly this light truck loophole. 
   The House version wrongly precludes any consideration, study, or analysis. That, to me, is the wrong way to approach a public policy issue. Let's at least study it. It is time we lift this somewhat gag order that has been placed on our ability to consider the costs and benefits of higher CAFE standards. I believe, by readjusting the CAFE standards particularly in terms of these light trucks we can make significant progress in terms of fuel oil economy and also environmental quality. But at least we have to begin this analysis. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important amendment. I commend the sponsors for their work and hope it will be incorporated in this legislation. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Bennett-Jeffords-Reed amendment. For the past 34 years, the National Endowment for the Arts has served the public good by nurturing the expression of human creativity, supporting the cultivation of community spirit, improving our children's education, and fostering the recognition and appreciation of our nation's artistic accomplishments. 
   The arts and humanities have an immense positive impact on the lives of all Americans. Children and adolescents in particular benefit tremendously from artistic expression. Studies show again and again that comprehensive arts education programs in schools with at-risk student populations improve academic achievement; student self-assurance; creative and critical thinking skills; attendance; as well as student and parent attitudes about school. 
   And yet, we as a society have consistently underfunded arts education and community arts programs at the local, state and federal level. In recent years, Congress has exacerbated this situation by dramatically reducing funding to the National Endowment for the Arts. 
   The NEA has not seen a budget increase in 8 years--not since 1992, when the agency had a budget of $175.9 million. In 1996, the NEA's budget was slashed by 40% to $99 million, and it has remained near that level ever since. 
   This year, the President requested an increase of $52 million for the NEA, nearly all of which would have been used to pay for a major new initiative called Challenge America. A priority of Challenge America would be to get NEA funds to areas of the country that have not received sufficient funds in the past. Challenge America would focus on outreach projects for education, after-school programs using the arts, historic preservation, and upgrading the arts infrastructure in our communities. In effect, Challenge America would put the arts at the center of family and community life. 
   Mr. President, by reaching out to new communities and new regions of the country, the Challenge America program would directly address the concerns that members of this body have expressed with regard to the distribution of NEA funds. 
   Unfortunately, the Interior spending bill before us contains no funding for the Challenge America initiative. The Appropriations Committee's report indicates, however, that the lack of funds for Challenge America ``should not be interpreted as a lack of support by the Committee for the Endowment's proposal.'' 
   The problem, of course, is the budget. The distinguished Interior Subcommittee Chairman and Ranking Member have done an outstanding job to report a bill within the tight allocations provided to them. I commend them for their effort and fully appreciate the constraints within which they operate. 
   However, I believe we can, and should, find the money to make the Challenge America program a reality and to allow the NEA to do what so many members of this body want it to do. At a time when we are considering an $800 billion tax cut, I think it is not unreasonable to provide a small increase to an agency that has such a meaningful impact in communities across the country. This amendment, which would provide $4 million in additional funding to the NEA in fiscal year 2000, would permit the NEA to get the Challenge America initiative off the ground. Every dime of additional money would be used for project grants--mostly the small, expedited grants that will get funding to previously underserved areas of the country. 
   Mr. President, the NEA is under new management. Chairman Bill Ivey has worked hard to reform the Endowment's operations and to respond to the concerns expressed by members of Congress in recent years. 
   It is time we gave the NEA a chance to show that it has changed. Let's give it the opportunity to do what we've asked it to do--to get more grants to new rural and urban areas, to do more in the area of arts education, and to help us rebuild our cities and make them more attractive places for people to live and work. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the legislation introduced by my colleague, Senator FEINGOLD of Wisconsin. I do so because of the gravity of the situation and also because of the fact that just 2 weeks ago I had the opportunity to travel, along with Senator HARKIN of Iowa and Congressman McGovern of Massachusetts, to East Timor. 
   We visited the town of Dili, the capital. Then we went into the countryside. We saw the bravery and courage of people who are willing, quite literally, to risk their lives to vote to determine their own future. We went to a town called Suai, which was a small village in the western part of East Timor. There we found 2,000 displaced persons huddled in the shadow of a half built Catholic church being protected from roving bands of militia, basically armed thugs, supported, encouraged, and, at times, directed by the Indonesian military authority. They were there not only for protection but also because they wanted to vote. They knew if they went back into the countryside, they might lose their chance to physically be present to vote. 
   As I stood before those thousands of poor people who have been denied water and food by the authorities, who literally were being starved away from their right to vote, I told them that the vote is more powerful than the army. They believed that. A few days later, with great courage, they went to the polls, and, in overwhelming numbers, they voted overwhelmingly for independence. 
   That vote now is being undermined systematically and deliberately by the military authority within Indonesia. Regretfully, we have just learned that the priest, Father Hilario, who was providing sanctuary in Swai, has been reported to have been killed by those violent militia bands. 
   This is an issue that should trouble every person of conscience throughout the world. It should particularly trouble the United States, because for many years we have maintained a relationship with the Government of Indonesia in an attempt to provide the kind of support that would allow them to evolve into a democratic country that would fulfill its promises. 
   The Government of Indonesia has pretensions of being a great power, but a great power keeps its word. The Government of Indonesia has not kept its word. It promised the United Nations that it would provide security and protection for the election. It promised it would respect the results of the election. It promised it would protect the lives and the property of the people of East Timor, and it has failed utterly and miserably in doing that. 
   The military of Indonesia has pretensions of being a professional military force, but a professional military force always follows legitimate orders of its civilian and military commanders. This army is failing miserably in doing that. 
   There is only one choice. They must either restore order, stability, and safety in East Timor, allow people to live freely and safely, respect the results of the election, or cooperate with the introduction of international peacekeepers. 
   At the heart of the bill Senator FEINGOLD, myself, and Senator LEAHY are introducing is a very clear message to the government and the military of Indonesia: Unless you restore order immediately or allow international peacekeepers to enter East Timor, we will cut off all multilateral assistance. We will cut off all bilateral assistance. We will cut off all military cooperation. Essentially, the future relationship of Indonesia with the world community depends fundamentally on whether or not they will respect their own agreement to provide safety and security for the people of East Timor and respect the results of this election. 
   I hope they do. If there is cooperation, if a United Nations peacekeeping force can enter that country, it is fortunate that our allies, the Australians and other countries, are ready, willing, and able at this moment to send personnel forward in this peacekeeping force. We should be able to assist this force with 
   some of the unique capacities and capabilities we have: intelligence capabilities, satellite observation, air lifts, sea lift. I don't think it is necessary to commit our forces on the ground, but we should be part of this effort to secure the peace and stability and reaffirm the validity of this election. 
   While we were in East Timor, we had occasion to visit with Bishop Belo, the Nobel prize winner. We had supper with him, very humble fare from a very humble and saintly person. His house has already been destroyed by roving mobs. East Timorese who took sanctuary there have been scattered and slaughtered. Mercifully, Bishop Belo has been able to escape to Australia. 
   These scenes of carnage and mayhem and madness are convulsing East Timor. It is the responsibility of the Government of Indonesia to stop the violence or to allow international forces to enter at the soonest possible time to stop this violence. As I indicated initially, this referendum was not foisted upon the Government of Indonesia. It was agreed to by the Government of Indonesia. They made solemn pledges to the United Nations to respect the results of the vote, to conduct the vote fairly without intimidation. Now they must live up to their word or allow the United Nations and the world community to see that this vote is respected. 
   A final image I have of our time in East Timor is going to a polling place. This was days before the election. We were talking to these very brave international volunteers from many nations who have risked their lives, literally, to be in these small towns to take the registration. There was a young man who had come to make sure his name was on the rolls so he could vote. We spoke with him. We asked him if he was afraid. 
   He said: Yes, very much so, but I will vote. My friends will vote. We want to determine the future of our country. We want to determine the future of our families and our communities. 
   They did that. We have to respect that courage and that faith in democracy and the power of the vote. We have to, internationally and individually as a nation, prove that the vote is more powerful than the army. 
   I am pleased and proud to join my colleagues in this resolution. I urge its speedy consideration and passage. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, here we are again, debating a conference report on a ten year, $800 billion tax cut. 
   This tax cut works on the assumption of a budget surplus that has not been realized yet--a surplus that is generated in no small part by already unattainable budget caps which will lead to a significant, 23% to 38% reduction in essential programs, including Pell Grants, special education, community policing, and drug enforcement. 
   In my home state of Rhode Island, my constituents stand to lose $15.9 million in Title I education funding and $11 million in Special Education funding. In addition, more than 17,000 Rhode Island students would be denied Pell Grants, and more than 2,000 children would be cut from Head Start programs. At a time when one in five children lives in poverty, can we really bear cuts of this magnitude? 
   At a time when we are asking the government to respond quicker and perform better, particularly with respect to domestic and international crises, we are considering legislation that trades away the essential services that the American people count on in exchange for speculative tax cuts whose benefit will be fleeting. 
   This legislation is also a threat to the future of Medicare. Indeed, at the point that Medicare teeters at the brink of insolvency in the next ten to twenty years, the cost of this tax cut could balloon to $2 trillion. 
   We know that we must take steps as soon as possible to shore up Medicare and Social Security. A responsible use of the surplus would be to make a reasonable allowance for essential programs, address the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare, and pay down the federal debt. Then, we should consider a targeted reductions for America's working families. 
   Of course, everyone realizes that we cannot continue to live under the spending caps. In May, a group of eight House Republicans wrote the President, stating, ``A rational compromise is needed to adjust the caps and maintain them for future years at achievable levels.'' If the most ardent architects of the caps are now having second  thoughts, there is little reason to expect they can be observed in the future. 
   But, we are already breaking the caps with ``emergency'' appropriations--appropriations that do not count against the caps. 
   What is an ``emergency'' appropriation exactly? Apparently, it is anything the Majority wants it to be. Just the other day, the House passed legislation designating part of the funding for the 2000 Census an ``emergency''. As conservative columnist George Will noted, we have known about next year's Census since 1790. How could it be an ``emergency''? Mr. President, since the end of fiscal year 1998, Congress has approved approximately $35 billion in ``emergency'' spending. One wonders how many other ``emergencies'' like the decennial census are looming. 
   Beyond the massive cuts to essential domestic initiatives, this tax bill depends on the performance of the economy. But, Mr. President, after the longest peacetime economic expansion in history, can we continue to count on a robust economy for another year, for another five years, for another ten years? The bill before us depends on this sort of gamble. 
   Ironically, this tax cut could be just the thing that stalls our economic growth. Recently, fifty economists, including 6 Nobel Laureates, wrote that this tax bill will stimulate the economy at precisely the wrong time. 
   Even Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, usually a strong supporter of tax cuts, has taken a cautionary view toward these tax reductions. The New York Times reported of his testimony on the Hill last week.  
   The subject [of tax cuts] came up several times, and Mr. Greenspan's message was stern: Don't do it. ``I'm saying hold off for a while,'' Mr. Greenspan said ..... ``And I'm saying that because the timing is not right.'' 
   Mr. Greenspan urged Congress to pay down the debt and delay any tax cut until the economy begins to turn down. ``The business cycle is not dead,'' he warned, telling lawmakers that whenever an economic slowdown hits, ``a significant tax cut'' may be needed to ward off recession.  
   In all respects, this legislation lacks proportionality. Fortunately, this bill, even if it passes the Senate and is sent on to the President, will be vetoed. It is regrettable that we have wasted so much time on this bill, when, instead, we could have focused on truly important issues like preserving Social Security and Medicare. Now that the political play has been made, I hope that we can return to substantive work on issues that really matter to the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise tonight to express my regret that I am unable to sign the conference repot on the Fiscal Year 2000 Department of Defense Authorization Act. 
   This was my first year as a member of the Armed Service Committee. I want to commend Chairman WARNER and Senator LEVIN for their leadership and commitment to our nation's defense. The committee provided ample opportunity for me to learn about the issues, participate in the discussion, and express my views. I believe that the process which created this bill was, overall, thoughtful and fair. 
   This bill has many excellent provisions. It provides for a significant increase in defense spending but allocates the funds wisely. In creases funds for research and development which we must invest in if we are to remain the world's finest fighting force. It adds additional funds to the service's operation and maintenance accounts which should ease the strain of keeping our bases and equipment in good condition. The bill also funds many of the Service Chief's unfunded requirements, items, that are not flashy but are vital to military readiness. 
   Certainly the most important parts of this bill are those that address the issue of recruitment and retention. This bill provides for a pay increase, restoration of retirement benefits, and special incentive pays. The bill also begins to address some of the problems identified in the military healthcare system. Our men and women in uniform work tirelessly every day to defend the principles of this country and they deserve the benefits that are included in this legislation. 
   I have grave concerns, however, over the sections of this bill which affect the Department of Energy. A reorganization of the agency which manages our nation's nuclear arsenal should not be undertaken quickly or haphazardly. Yet this conference report contains language which was not considered by any committee or debated on the floor of either the House or the Senate. The ramifications of these provisions are unclear. Regrettably, I am unable to support a report which contains such provisions until I have had the opportunity to study them further. 
   I hope that further analysis reveals that this reorganization is workable and that ultimately, I am able to vote in favor of this report. However, at this time, I am reserving my judgment and will not sign the conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss legislation I am introducing, the Campaign Spending Control Act of 1999. I introduced similar legislation in 1997. Unfortunately, in the last two years we have only seen the financial excesses of our campaign system grow, further disenfranchising and disillusioning voters. If our government is to regain the confidence and participation of the electorate, enactment of this legislation is more necessary today than it was two years ago. 
   Mr. President, two independent public policy groups recently released surveys gauging the public's opinion of their federal government. The news, once again, was not good for our democracy. 
   Earlier this month the Council for Excellence in Government released a nonpartisan poll, conducted by respected pollsters Peter Hart and Robert Teeter, which demonstrated that less than four in ten Americans now believe that President Lincoln's refrain, that our government is ``of, by, and for the people'' is accurate. While past disillusionment with government was directed at so-called ``unaccountable bureaucrats,'' today most Americans blame the moneyed special interests and the politicians and their political parties for the fact that government is not accountable to the average citizen. Patricia McGinnis, the Council's President, characterized the poll as demonstrating that ``we have an anemic democracy, badly in need of involvement and ownership by its citizens.'' 
   Back in January of this year the Center on Policy Attitudes, released a nonpartisan poll which showed continued record high public dissatisfaction with government. This finding is disconcerting given that our nation is experiencing an unprecedented economic boom coupled with military security. Nonetheless, the Center's study showed that less than one in three Americans ``trust the government in Washington to do what is right'' most of the time. The study concludes that ``[t]he public's dissatisfaction with the US government is largely due to the perception that elected officials, acting in their self-interest, give priority to special interests and partisan agendas, over the interests of the public as a whole.'' Specifically, the survey found that three in four Americans believe that the government is ``run for the benefit of a few big interests.'' 
   Mr. President, I believe that the biggest culprit fueling the public perception that politicians, political parties, and representational government is beholden to special interests, not the needs of the average citizen, is our campaign financing system. When politicians depend upon wealthy special interests, which represent less than one percent of the citizenry, for the political contributions that fuel campaigns the public is left to conclude that its voice will not, cannot, be heard, never mind addressed. 
   The 1996 elections produced record spending: over 2.7 billion dollars, or approximately 28 dollars per voter. All this money produced record-low voter participation. These two tragic facts are inextricably linked. Most Americans believe our current campaign system is tainted by a flood of special interest money, drowning out their voice, making their participation meaningless, and leaving their concerns unaddressed. 
   Mr. President, unfortunately, the excesses of 1996 were only multiplied in 1998. Funded by unregulated, unlimited ``soft money'' contributions, the use of unaccountable ``issue ads'' tripled. Without the ability to check either the facts or the sponsors of these ads, Americans became more cynical and less likely to participate. Candidates, on the other hand, are forced to raise money to not only match the resources and the advertising, of their opponent, but also outside groups that are running ``issue ads.'' 
   Those challenging sitting Members of Congress are most disadvantaged by our financing system: in 1998 almost half of the House of Representatives faced opponents with little or no funding. The money chase saps a candidate's time, limiting the ability and incentive to debate, attend forums, and otherwise engage voters. Even the donors dislike the current system: with many corporate leaders announcing their opposition to, and unwillingness to participate in, the current system. We are trapped in a system that no one, not the voters, not the candidates, not the donors, thinks proper. 
   The roots of this abysmal situation can be traced to a misguided Supreme Court decision. In Buckley v. Valeo, a 1976 case which challenged the 1974 campaign reform legislation, the Court held that, in order to avoid corruption, or its appearance, political contributions could be limited. However, the Court invalidated campaign expenditure limits. The Court surmised that, given the contribution limit reforms, expenditure limits were not only unnecessary but would stifle unlimited and in-depth debate stimulated by greater campaign spending. This conjecture has been proven absolutely false by over twenty years of practical experience. 
   The single most important step to reform elections and revitalize our democracy is to reverse the Buckley decision by limiting the amount of money that a candidate or his allies can spend. 
   For this reason Senator JOHNSON and I are introducing legislation which directly challenges the Buckley decision and places mandatory limits on all campaign expenditures. These limits do not favor incumbents. Historically, these limits would have restricted almost four out of five incumbents, while impacting only a handful of challengers. Additionally, this legislation would fully ban corporate contributions, as well as unlimited and unregulated contributions by wealthy individuals and organizations. Further, our bill would limit campaign expenditures by supposedly, neutral, independent groups, and restrict corporations, labor unions, and other organizations from influencing campaigns under the guise of issue advocacy. The end result of this legislation would be to eliminate over a half-billion dollars from the system, encourage challenges to incumbents, and further promote debate among both candidates and the electorate. 
   What effect would these limits have on political debate? Contrary to the Supreme Court, I believe such limits would increase dialogue. Candidates would be free from the burdens of unending fundraising and thus be available to participate in debates, forums, and interviews. With greater access to candidates and less reason to believe that candidates were captives of their contributors, voters might well be more prepared to invest the time needed to be informed on issues of concern and ask candidates to address them. 
   Some of the most extreme defenders of our current campaign financing system will argue that this legislation impinges upon freedom of speech. In analyzing this criticism it is important to remember that the vast majority of Americans, ninety-six percent, have never made a political contribution. The bill will marginally restrict the rights of a few to contribute and spend money--not speak--so that the majority of voters might restore their faith in the process. Campaign finances will be restricted no more than necessary to fulfill several compelling interests, the most important of which is the people's faith in their government. Such a restriction conforms with 
   Constitutional jurisprudence and has been demonstrated as necessary by history. The fact is all democratic debates are restricted by rules. My legislation would simply reinstall some rules into our political campaigns while directly impacting very few Americans. 
   Another criticism of this bill will be that it goes too far. Many reform proponents argue that we should concentrate on more modest gains. It is irrefutable that today, Congress struggles to consider even the most modest of reforms, such as banning so called soft money: unlimited donations by corporations, labor unions, and wealthy individuals to political party committees. Unfortunately the debate in Congress has regressed terribly from the original McCain-Feingold bill,  which addressed runaway campaign expenditures with voluntary spending limits. Yet, there are also reasons to be optimistic about implementation of substantial campaign reform. 
   Reform has broad public support and has grown into a major grass-roots initiative outside of Washington, DC. Elected officials from thirty-three states have urged that the Buckley decision be revisited and limits implemented. Legislative bodies in Ohio and Vermont have implemented sweeping reform by enacting mandatory caps on candidate expenditures. Other states, such as my own, have embraced public financing as a more modest, but significant, means of reform. On election day in 1998 voters in Arizona and Massachusetts approved significant reforms, both of which would ban so called ``soft money'' as well as encourage contribution and spending limits through voluntary public financing. Currently, campaign finance reform is enacted or being pursued in more than forty states. While significant reform may be a major step for Congress; our constituents and their state and local representatives are implementing important reform throughout the nation. 
   Unfortunately, because of the overly restrictive and confused jurisprudence flowing from the Buckley decision, many of these popular initiatives face years of special interest challenge in court. Indeed, the most effective reforms will, most likely, be struck down by trial courts. While I enthusiastically support any substantive reform, if we are to address the underlying cancer which has disintegrated voter trust and participation, the problem of unlimited expenditures must be directly confronted. As I have already stated, this is a step that one municipality and two states have embraced. Many more state officials as well as prominent constitutional law scholars have urged such a course. Expenditure limitations have been proposed by Congressional reformers in the past, and it is time to rededicate ourselves to this goal. The largest impediment to such reform is the Supreme Court, and I believe that there is, again, reason to be optimistic that the Court will accommodate such reform in the near future. 
   Currently, the Court has before it a case which challenges the Buckley decision. In Buckley, the Court upheld against First Amendment challenge the $1,000 federal contribution limit passed by Congress. In Shrink Missouri Government PAC v. Adams, the case currently under review by the Supreme Court, the Eighth Circuit struck down as unconstitutional Missouri's virtually identical state-wide contribution limit of $1,075, holding that only proof of corruption can justify contribution limits. I have led several members of Congress in an amicus brief to the Court. 
   Mr. President, our brief makes two arguments. First, it demonstrates that the Eighth Circuit's decision is inconsistent with the Supreme Court's decision in Buckley and should be reversed on that ground alone. Second, it contends that the Court should give legislatures the leeway to pass reforms that will respond meaningfully to the erosion of public confidence in the government created by the current campaign financing system. 
   This leeway can be provided in two ways. First, the Court should review campaign finance reforms under a deferential standard of review--``intermediate'' scrutiny rather than ``strict'' scrutiny--as long as the legislature does not justify the reforms on the communicative impact of the speech at issue. Second, the Court should recognize the institutional competence uniquely possessed by legislatures both to identify threats to the integrity of the electoral system and to implement corresponding reforms. 
   The amicus brief does not advocate any particular type of reform, but rather urges the Court to provide leeway for legislatures to enact necessary reforms. It is my hope that this case, while not changing the fundamental holding of Buckley, will stimulate the Court to provide greater deference to legislatures that seek to address the threat that campaign financing, and the cynicism it creates, poses to our democracy. 
   Once such leeway has been provided, the Court will be forced to revisit its holding that spending money is the functional equivalent to speaking. Experience since this 1976 decision should force the Court to realize that while money fuels speech, at some point, financial expenditures only increase a speaker's volume. Spending has now reached a shrill pitch that the vast majority of Americans want addressed. Elected representatives in thirty three states and countless grassroots officials agree with this sentiment. The legislation I have introduced today will implement such reform, restoring rules to our political debate, encouraging public participation, and thus stimulating faith in our democracy. I thank Senator JOHNSON for his support in this endeavor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to make a few comments concerning legislation which I am introducing to deal with the problem of slamming. 
   Telephone ``slamming'' is the illegal practice of switching a consumer's long distance service without the individual's consent. This problem has increased dramatically over the last several years, as competition between long distance carriers has risen, and slamming is the top consumer complaint lodged at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), with 11,278 reported complaints in 1995, and 16,500 in 1996. In both 1997 and 1998, more than 20,000 complaints were filed. It is very clear that this problem is on the rise, and unfortunately, this represents only the tip of the iceberg because most consumers never report violations to the FCC. One regional Bell company estimates that 1 in every 20 switches is fraudulent. Media reports indicate that as many as 1 million illegal transfers occur annually. Thus, slamming threatens to rob consumers of the benefit of a competitive market, which is now composed of over 500 companies which generate $72.5 billion in revenues. As a result of slamming, consumers face not only higher phone bills, but also the significant expenditure of time and energy in attempting to identify and reverse the fraud. The results of slamming are clear: higher phone bills and immense consumer frustration. 
   Mr. President, we are all aware of the stiff competition which occurs for customers in the long distance telephone  service industry. The goal of deregulating the telecommunications industry was to allow consumers to easily avail themselves of lower prices and better service. Hopefully, this option will soon be presented to consumers for in-state calls and local phone service. Indeed, better service at lower cost is a main objective of those who seek to deregulate the utility industry. Unfortunately, fraud threatens to rob many consumers of the benefits of a competitive industry. 
   Telemarketing is one of the least expensive and most effective forms of marketing, and it has exponentially expanded in recent years. By statute, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) regulates most telemarketing, prohibiting deceptive or abusive sales calls, requiring that homes not be called at certain times, and that companies honor a consumer's request not to be called again. The law mandates that records concerning sales be maintained for two years. While the FTC is charged with primary enforcement, the law allows consumers, or state Attorneys General on their behalf, to bring legal action against violators. Yet, phone companies are exempt from these regulations, since they are subject to FCC regulation. 
   While the FCC has brought action against twenty-two of the industry's largest and smallest firms for slamming violations with penalties totaling over $1.8 million, this represents a minute fraction of the violations. FCC prosecution does not effectively address or deter this serious fraud. State officials have become more aggressive in pursuing violators. The California Public Utility Commission fined a company $2 million in 1997 after 56,000 complaints were filed against it. Arizona, Arkansas, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio, Vermont, and Wisconsin have all pursued litigation against slammers. Public officials of twenty-five states asked the FCC to adopt tougher rules against slammers. 
   As directed by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the FCC has moved to close several loopholes which have allowed slamming to continue unabated. Most important, the FCC has proposed to eliminate the financial incentive which encourages many companies to slam by mandating that customers who are slammed do not have to pay fees to slammers for the first thirty days after the switch occurred. At present, a slammer can retain the profits generated from an illegal switch. Additionally, the FCC has proposed regulations which would require that a carrier confirm all switches generated by telemarketing through either (1) a letter of agency, known as a LOA, from the consumer; (2) a recording of the consumer verifying his or her choice on a toll-free line provided by the carrier; or (3) a record of verification by an appropriately qualified and independent third party. The regulations, which were recently finalized by the FCC, unfortunately have been blocked by court order until long distance carriers have time to analyze the implications of the rules. If and when these rules are finalized, I still believe that these remedies will be wholly inadequate to address the ever-increasing problem of slamming. The problem is that slammed consumers would still be left without conclusive proof that their consent was properly obtained and verified. 
   My legislation encompasses a three-part approach to stop slamming by strengthening the procedures used to verify consent obtained by marketers; increasing enforcement procedures by allowing citizens or their representatives to pursue slammers in court with the evidence necessary to win; and encouraging all stakeholders to use emerging technology to prevent fraud. 
   Mr. President, let me also thank the National Association of Attorneys General, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners which through both their national offices and individual members provided extensive recommendations to improve this bill. Additionally, I have found extremely helpful the input of several groups which advocate on behalf of consumers. I was particularly pleased to work with the Consumer Federation of America to address concerns which its members expressed. 
   Mr. President, let me take a few minutes to outline the specific provisions of my bill. My legislation requires that a consumer's consent to change service is verified so that discrepancies can be adjudicated quickly and efficiently. Like the 1996 Act, my bill requires a legal switch to include verification. However, my legislation enumerates the necessary elements of a valid verification. First, the bill requires verification to be maintained by the provider, either in the form of a letter from the consumer or by recording verification of the consumer's consent via the phone. The length that the verification must be maintained is to be determined by the FCC. Second, the bill stipulates the form that verification must take. Written verification remains the same as current regulations. Oral verification must include the voice of the subscriber affirmatively demonstrating that she wants her long distance provider to be changed; is authorized to make the change; and is currently verifying an imminent switch. The bill mandates oral verification to be conducted in a separate call from that of the telemarketer, by an independent, disinterested party. This verifying call must promptly disclose the nature and purpose of the call. Third, after a change has been executed, the new service provider must send a letter to the consumer, within five business days of the change in service, informing the consumer that the change, which he requested and verified, has been effected. Fourth, the bill mandates that a copy of verification be provided to the consumer upon request. Finally, the bill requires the FCC to finalize rules implementing these mandates within nine months of enactment of the bill. 
   These procedures should help ensure that consumers can efficiently avail themselves of the phone service they seek, without being exposed to random and undetectable fraudulent switches. If an individual is switched without his or her consent, the mandate of recorded, maintained verification will provide the consumer with the proof necessary to prove that the switch was illegal. 
   The second main provision of my legislation would provide consumers, or their public representatives, a legal right to pursue violators in court. Following the model of Senator HOLLINGS' 1991 Telephone Consumer Protection Act, my bill provides aggrieved consumers with a private right of action in any state court which allows, under specific slamming laws or more general consumer protection statutes such an action. The 1991 Act has been adjudicated to withstand constitutional challenges on both equal protection and tenth amendment claims. Thus, the bill has the benefit of specifying one forum in which to resolve illegal switches of all types of service: long distance, in-state, and local service. 
   Realizing that many individuals will not have the time, resources, or inclination to pursue a civil action, my bill also allows state Attorneys Generals, or other officials authorized by state law, to bring an action on behalf of citizens. Like the private right of action in suits brought by public officials damages are statutorily set at $1,000 or actual damages, whichever is greater. Treble damages are awarded in cases of knowing or willful violations. In addition to monetary awards, states are entitled to seek relief in the form of writs of mandamus, injunction, or similar relief. To ensure a proper role for the FCC, state actions must be brought in a federal district court where the victim or defendant resides. Additionally, state actions must be certified with the Commission, which maintains a right to intervening in an action. The bill makes express the fact that it has no impact on state authority to investigate consumer fraud or bring legal action under any state law. 
   Finally, Mr. President, my legislation recognizes that neither legislators nor regulators can solve tomorrow's problems with today's technology. Therefore, my bill mandates that the FCC provide Congress with a report on other, less burdensome but more secure means of obtaining and recording consumer consent. Such methods might include utilization of Internet technology or issuing PIN numbers or customer codes to be used before carrier changes are authorized. The bill requires that the FCC report to Congress on such methodology not later than 180 days after enactment of this bill. 
   Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to discuss my initiative to stop  slamming. Last year we came close to passing significant anti-slamming legislation. I hope that this issue can be addressed quickly this Congress. As a result, I would urge all my colleagues to cosponsor this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Parental Accountability, Recruitment, and Education National Training (PARENT) Act of 1999, which seeks to increase parental involvement in the educational lives of their children. 
   Mr. President, research, experience, and reason tell us that providing parents with opportunities to play active roles in their children's schools empowers them to help their children excel. When parents are actively involved in their child's education, not only do their own children go further, but their child's school also improves to the benefit of all students. And, as I have witnessed in Rhode Island, and I am sure my colleagues can attest to this in their home states, our best schools are not simply those with the finest teachers and principals, but those which strive to engage parents in the education of their children. 
   A recent National PTA survey revealed that 91% of parents recognize the importance of involvement in their children's schools. Unfortunately, even as we extol the virtue of parental involvement, we must recognize that reality falls far short of the goal. The National PTA survey also found that roughly half the parents surveyed felt they were inadequately informed about ways in which they could participate in schools, or even gain access to basic information about their children's studies and their children's teachers. There are also other obstacles to greater parental involvement, such as working parents who find it difficult to get to schools and be involved or parents who have had negative schooling experiences and are wary of entering schools to participate in their children's education. 
   With 73% of parents favoring a federal effort to help schools get parents more involved with their children's education, the upcoming reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) provides an opportunity to help bring schools and parents together, and to ensure parents have the tools to meaningfully and effectively get involved in their children's education. While the ESEA currently contains parental involvement provisions, they mainly apply to Title I schools and students, and have not been fully implemented. 
   That is why I am pleased to be joined by Senators MURRAY, KENNEDY, HARKIN, and BINGAMAN and Representative LYNN WOOLSEY in the other body in introducing the PARENT Act. This legislation would amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to bolster existing and add new parental involvement provisions. 
   The PARENT Act requires that all schools implement effective, research-based parental involvement best practices. It also seeks to improve parental access to information about their children's education and the school's parental involvement policies; ensure that professional development activities provide training to teachers and administrators on how to foster relationships with parents and encourage parental involvement; utilize technology to expand efforts to connect schools and teachers with parents; and promote parental involvement in drug and violence prevention programs. In addition, the PARENT Act requires any state seeking funding under ESEA to describe, implement, and evaluate parental involvement policies and practices. 
   To succeed in the endeavor of increasing parental involvement, we must depend on parents, teachers, and school administrators throughout the country to work collaboratively to implement effective programs. However, federal leadership is needed to provide schools, teachers, and parents with the tools adequate to this task. 
   Mr. President, the bottom line of federal support for education is to increase student achievement. Parental involvement is an essential component to ensuring that our students succeed. This legislation is strongly supported by the National PTA, and I urge my colleagues to join Senators MURRAY, KENNEDY, HARKIN, BINGAMAN, and me in supporting the PARENT Act, and working for its inclusion in the ESEA reauthorization. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent that a fellow in my office, Ms. Barbara Murray, be granted floor privileges during the pendency of my discussion on the child care quality incentive bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to talk about a crisis that is affecting the families of this country. That crisis is the child care system, the ability to obtain safe, affordable, high-quality child care. 
   Today there are an estimated 13 million children, 6 million of them infants and toddlers, who require some form of day care. For working families, the price of this day care is exceedingly difficult to meet each and every day. 
   Full-day child care ranges from $4,000 to $10,000 a year. For some low-income families, that represents 25 percent of their income. 
   This is a huge obligation. We have, I fear and believe, the responsibility to ensure that we can help these families meet this obligation to protect their children. Not only is this necessary simply for the custodial protection and care of children, it is necessary for their enhancement, their advancement, for their intellectual development. 
   We have discovered over the last several years, because of all the research that is being done at the National Institutes of Health, and other places, the crucial role of the early development of children in their ultimate intellectual and social development as adults. 
   We know if we have good, nurturing care in the early days of life, this care will lead to better cognitive performance later on. It will increase classroom success. It will lead to more fully developed individuals who can cope with the challenges of this next century that is just upon us. 
   So our investment in child care is not simply something that is altruistic--something we want to do because it is for the kids and for working families--it is in the best interests of this country in order to provide for the citizens of this country of the next century. 
   We know also, as we look around, that one of the problems in child care, I say to Senators, is that because of the low reimbursement rates that the child care centers receive from the States, that they are not able to retain good employees and that they are not able to train the employees they can retain--particularly in this booming economy we see today. 
   So what you have in so many child care centers is a situation where they cannot retain their employees, they cannot attract the very best employees, they do not have the resources to fully develop the potential for these employees, and as a result, ultimately, children suffer. 
   In fact, there have been numerous studies. The one that I found most disturbing is one where four States were studied in the United States, and it was found that in those States only one out of seven child care centers provided care that promoted the healthy development of the child. 
   Even more shocking, one in eight of these child care centers actually provided care that threatened the health of the child. We have to do something about it. 
   Prior to welfare reform, there was a law on the books that said the State, when they were subsidizing day care for low-income parents, had to at least try to achieve the 75th percentile in terms of their reimbursement rate. What that means is that they had to have a reimbursement rate that could at least meet the cost of 75 out of 100 of the centers in their particular State. That has gone by the wayside. But in order to keep quality in our child care system, we have to get to reimbursement rates that will, in fact, provide the resources for child care centers to have quality, enhancing care to benefit the children of this country. 
   What has also been abandoned in the last several years is even the attempt by the States to go ahead and do surveys of the market so they know what it costs different child care centers to provide care and know what it costs for the parents to send their children to day-care centers. Having abandoned these market surveys, essentially there is no connection between their subsidy rate and, in fact, the cost of day care. So working families who receive these subsidies--and there are more and more families who are receiving subsidies as we move welfare recipients to work--have no correlation between what they are getting and essentially what the cost of child care is in the real world. 
   What I have done, along with some of my colleagues, is introduce legislation that would, in fact, give the States an incentive, first to do their market surveys, to find out the cost of day care in their communities, and then to strive to meet those market rates. 
   I have been very pleased to be joined by Senators CHRIS DODD and TED KENNEDY, who are leaders in the field of improving child care in this country, together with Senators FEINSTEIN, INOUYE, and MURRAY in introducing the Child Care Quality Incentive Act. Essentially, this legislation would establish a new mandatory pool of funding, $300 million each year over the next 5 years, as part of the Child Care Development Block Grant Program. This funding would be an incentive for States to first conduct a market survey and then to make significant movement towards raising their subsidy rates to that market rate. In so doing, we can directly contribute to the bottom line of these child care centers. They, in turn, can retain personnel, train their personnel, and create a more enhancing environment for the development of children. This, I think, is a goal we should have. 
   Increased reimbursement rates also expand the number of choices parents have in finding quality child care. 
   We will also, I hope, at the same time try to increase the overall scope of the child development block grants. One of the consequences of simply increasing funding for the child care development block grant, is many States will not increase the subsidy they pay for children; they will simply try to enroll more children. This puts centers in a very cruel dilemma because the more children they have at that far-below-market rate the greater the economic pressure on the centers. 
   The program I am presenting today with my colleagues would do what child care providers have argued must be done, and that is to give them additional resources so they can, in fact, improve the quality of day care--not simply the number of children in day care but the quality of day care. If we do these things we are going to be in a strong position to face the challenges ahead. 
   One of the greatest challenges for working families is the cost of day care for their children. I have been very pleased to note that this legislation has been endorsed by the USA Child Care, the Children's Defense Fund, Catholic Charities of the United States, the Child Welfare League of America, the YMCA of the United States, the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies, the National Head Start Association, the National Child Care Association and a host of other agencies and organizations throughout the country. They recognize, as I do, and as my colleagues who are introducing this legislation do, that we can talk a lot about child care, we can emphasize how important it is to families, we can stress the importance to our economy and to our long-run future in this country, but until we put real resources to work, we will not be able to meet the real needs of families. These needs grow each day.  
   I urge strong support for this legislation. Again, I thank and commend my colleagues who have joined me in this effort: Senators DODD, KENNEDY, FEINSTEIN, INOUYE, and MURRAY, and encourage others to join us. I believe if we make this investment in quality child care, we will be making one of the most important investments we can make in the future of this country and in the individual future of families throughout the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to His Holiness Karekin I, Catholicos of the Armenian Orthodox Church. His Holiness passed away on June 29, 1999 at the Holy See of Etcmiadzin, Armenia. 
   In 1997, I had the opportunity to meet personally with His Holiness, the supreme patriarch of the Armenian Church, in Yerevan. I was moved by his devotion to his church and the love and compassion he had for all people. His Holiness Karekin I was not only respected and loved by Armenian people throughout the world, but his wisdom, compassion and courage was renowned in international religious circles. Throughout his life, His Holiness traveled to many countries, including the United States and my home state of Rhode Island, to strengthen and reconfirm the faith of the Armenian community. He was truly an inspiration to all who knew him. 
   His Holiness dedicated more than fifty years to his faith, and his devotion raised him rapidly to the highest ranks of the Church. He was born in the village of Kessab, Syria in 1932 and was ordained as a priest in the Church's celibate order in 1949 after his graduation from the Armenian Church Seminary in Antilias, Lebanon. His Holiness was recognized as an exceptional scholar and sent to Oxford University for theological studies. After completing his studies, he returned to Antilias to serve as Dean of the seminary. His Holiness was recognized for his leadership skills by being asked to lead church dioceses in Iran and the United States. In 1977, he was elected Catholicos of the Catholicosate of Cilicia, based in Lebanon. 
   The people of Armenia elected Karekin I Supreme Catholicos of the Armenian people in 1995. Karekin I was the first Catholicos in centuries to reign within an independent Armenian state. His Holiness worked tirelessly for the spiritual revival of the Armenian Orthodox Church in Armenia. His Holiness also decentralized the infrastructure of the church in Armenia by adding new diocese throughout the country, and he restored churches and monasteries which had been closed during the era of Soviet rule. 
   The Armenian people throughout the world are mourning the death of His Holiness, and Armenia will be paying tribute to his extraordinary life by holding a period of national mourning through August 8. 
   I urge my colleagues to join with the Armenian community in remembering the legacy of hope, courage, and compassion left by His Holiness Karekin I.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I oppose this amendment on procedural grounds. This is a highly complex subject. It is a subject that I am sure will be debated extensively as we consider the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. But in principle also I think it is inappropriate to divert these resources to private education when we have so many unmet needs in public education. 
   I believe also that if we adopt the underlying tax bill there will be even less resources to devote to public education and it will exacerbate the demands that we already must meet with respect to public education. 
   There is a difference between private schools and public schools. Private schools can exclude children. Public schools must educate every child in America. 
   I believe our obligation and commitment is to public education, and this amendment will defeat that. 
   I also note that the pending amendment is not germane. 
   Therefore, I raise a point of order that the amendment violates Section 305(b)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I note that the banking committee is meeting at this time, and objection to that meeting has been made for the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am proud to join Senator ROCKEFELLER in proposing a prudent, fiscally responsible tax cut alternative. 
   Like many, we are skeptical with the underlying assumption that there will be nearly a trillion dollar surplus. Indeed, the numbers show that much of the surplus is generated under the assumption that Congress will significantly slash investments in education, veterans, and defense below the level needed to keep pace with inflation. Such cuts in key investments are not what the American people want. Moreover, the current majority has already exceeded last year's spending limit by $35 billion in the first 10 months of this fiscal year. 
   The real surplus from our current economic growth is closer to $112 billion when one eliminates the unrealistic, rosy scenarios painted by the Republican's $800 billion tax bill. 
   Mr. President, our great economic growth has presented us with an opportunity to do many things. Sensible, modest, and targeted tax cuts for working families is part of that mix along with domestic investments and Medicare reform. 
   In that spirit of balancing priorities, I supported the proposal of Sen. MOYNIHAN to provide $290 billion in targeted tax relief, while extending the life of Medicare and preserving funding for our most pressing domestic needs. That proposal was realistic and based on sound footings. 
   But, we should not enact an $800 billion tax cut based on mere projections; which slashes domestic investments; and which does nothing to preserve Medicare. 
   Our $112 billion tax cut proposal is tied to a realistic review of the actual unencumbered surplus. This is the judgement of many outside experts including former Congressional Budget Office Director Robert Reischauer. Using this figure we can still provide marriage penalty relief, education tax credits, preserve Medicare, and meet the expectations of America's families. That is why Senators ROCKEFELLER, LEAHY, and I have put forth this proposal. 
   Mr. President, my hope is that our colleagues on the side of the aisle will take a moment to review the real surplus numbers and join us in our effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, we are at a historic juncture. In the 1980's, we faced massive deficits and growing debts. In sum, Congress debated red ink. 
   On the edge of the millennium, we are debating the question of what to do with about $1 trillion in anticipated budget surpluses. 
   Why are we here debating a surplus? We are here because of the tough  choice we made in the past: a choice to use fiscal discipline. We started down the road of deficit reduction with the 1993 budget package, which passed without a single Republican vote. In fact, some members on the other side of the aisle claimed the bill would lead to economic collapse. However, because of the courageous stand we took then, we have gone from a $290 billion deficit in 1992 to an estimated $70 billion surplus in 1999. 
   But we did more than reduce the deficit and restore fiscal discipline, we spurred tremendous economic growth and unprecedented economic expansion. For the sake of perspective, I would like to list the following facts: we have seen 3.5% annual growth since 1993, 18.9 million new jobs, 4.3% unemployment, and the median family income grow by more than $3,500 since 1993. This is good news, and we cannot afford to squander it. 
   The days of red ink as far as the eye can see are gone. Instead, based on various budget projections, we can suppose that there will be a total surplus of approximately $3 trillion over the next ten years. More than $2 billion of that total comes from Social Security payroll taxes and must absolutely be set aside to preserve Social Security for current and future beneficiaries. Social Security is a promise to those Americans who worked and fought to make this nation great, and it is a program that must be preserved. 
   The Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office both project that the remaining non-Social Security surplus totals roughly $965 billion. But these are merely projections, dependent upon the performance and vagaries of the economy. And, I would caution that the Office and Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office have a history of predictions that fall far short of the mark. Indeed, Mr. President, because of changes in the economy between April and July of 1999, the Congressional Budget Office revised its ten year projections, adding $300 billion to the surplus. Imagine--a swing of $300 billion in three months. 
   But how are we generating the surplus, or more accurately, why is the Congressional Budget Office predicting a budget surplus? 
   Quite simply, the vast bulk of the non-Social Security surplus, nearly $600 billion of it, comes from the continuation of arbitrary spending caps established in the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. When we passed that legislation, we still had a deficit, but many of us realized then that if these budget caps were maintained beyond the period they were required to balance the budget, they would prevent us from meeting our long-term obligations for education, health care, and the environment. 
   The American people cannot afford, as my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have asked of them, to retain these caps for the next 10 years. We cannot afford $600 billion in cuts to Pell Grants, Head Start, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women Infants and Children, Brownfield cleanup, Community Policing, Veterans benefits, and the National Institutes of Health, to name a few essential initiatives. Let me emphasize that the $600 billion figure is not for new, outlandish investments. Rather, that figure represents the resources we need to maintain current levels of funding. Make no mistake, these are cuts, not ``reductions in the rate of growth'', but real cuts. 
   Moreover, if we adopt the Republican $800 billion tax cut plan and if we fund the President's plan to meet the military's personnel and equipment needs, as the Republican leadership has said it will do, non-defense domestic spending will be cut by a whopping 38% in 2009. Under this scenario, 375,000 children will not get Head Start services, 1.4 million veterans will lose medical care, and 6.5 million poor students will lose Title I education aid. Simply put, the $800 billion tax cut before us today crowds out every priority we know must be met in the future. 
   Mr. President, the most serious shortfall of the Republican tax bill is that it disposes of the entire surplus without making any provisions to shore up Medicare. By using all of the projected surplus for tax cuts, we leave ourselves severely restricted in the options we will have in the future. 
   Actuarial reports from the Medicare Trustees project that, under current economic conditions, we will have to contend with the inevitable fact that the Medicare program will be insolvent by 2015. Regrettably, by allocating the entire federal budget surplus for tax cuts, we will be forced to make radical changes to the program, either in the form of dramatic benefit reductions, large increases in premiums, or tax increases. 
   In addition, the Republican tax cut plan completely ignores the impending burdens of a retiring baby boom generation. The truth is that by 2030, there will be about 70 million Americans 65 years or older, more than twice their number in 1996. In terms of the total population, seniors will grow from 13% to 20% between 1999 and 2030. 
   In spite of these imminent demographic challenges, the Republican tax cut bill is structured in a way that tax breaks would explode during their second ten years. As the baby boom generation retirements occur, the cost of the tax cuts would explode to $2 trillion. 
   Prudence dictates that we should take the opportunity the surplus presents to make meaningful changes to the Medicare program. I believe that we should be looking at the possibility of adding a prescription drug benefit as well as additional preventive benefits to the basic package of health care benefits. For elderly Rhode Islanders the cost of prescription drugs is a major concern and a major expense. Unfortunately, Medicare does not cover this expense nor does the COLA for Social Security accurately represent the medical expenditures of today's seniors. 
   While consideration of these matters should be made in the context of overall structural reform, we must ensure that there are adequate resources to guarantee a basic benefit package upon which Medicare beneficiaries continue to rely. 
   Sadly, the Republican tax bill saps these resources before the debate can even begin. The massive size of the Republican tax plan threatens to unravel the many years of fiscal austerity that have brought us to this important juncture. Their unrealistic and dangerous proposal sacrifices the future for short-term gratification. 
   Mr. President, these are good times in our nation. More Americans are employed. More Americans own a home. Crime is down. Productivity is up, and inflation is low. 
   Working families in Rhode Island expect us to be responsible and prepare for the future. They want us to preserve Medicare, but the Republicans say ``no''. They want us to invest in education, but the Republicans say ``no''. They want us to care for our veterans, but the Republicans say ``no''. They want us to address the shameful fact that 1 out of every 5 children in America lives in poverty, but the Republicans say ``no''. 
   Mr. President, saying ``no'' to the needs of the American people is not an acceptable legacy for this Congress. On the edge of the Millennium, we should not put politics ahead of what is fair and responsible. Let's build for the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Senator from New Mexico for yielding the time but also for his farsightedness. He recognizes, as the American people recognize, that the key to our future is investing in education. His amendment would precisely do that. It would sustain our education investment at least at the rate of inflation. 
   We are here debating what to do with a surplus. This debate is a direct result of some very difficult choices we made starting in 1993 and continuing for the last several years. We now have before us a supposed $3 trillion surplus. But we all recognize and agree that $2 trillion of that is the Social Security account. We are in various ways recognizing that we don't want to disturb those accounts. So we are really talking about roughly $1 trillion, or $965 billion. 
   As the Senator from Massachusetts so eloquently pointed out and so accurately pointed out, within that surplus we have already made significant commitments. 
   One of the problems with the proposals that have been made by the Republicans--the almost $800 billion tax cut, or the $500 billion tax cut--is that the assumptions they are using have to be seriously questioned. They are theoretical assumptions, first, that we will enjoy the same kind of economic growth over the next 10 years that we have enjoyed recently. 
   As Chairman Greenspan pointed out in his appearance both before the Senate Banking Committee and the comparable committee in the other body, the business cycle has not been repealed. We will run into, particularly over a 10-year time span, situations in which projections do not provide the resources that we think of today. 
   But the second assumption and the one that is of critical importance to Senator BINGAMAN's amendment is the unrealistic assumption that we will continue these caps on discretionary spending as we have proposed in the 1997 balanced budget amendment. 
   These discretionary caps are already constraining what we do. In fact, we have already violated these caps. As the Senator from Massachusetts suggested, we will probably in October somehow formally or informally avoid these caps. 
   But the premise of this supposed trillion-dollar surplus is that we will live within these caps. You can see from Senator BINGAMAN's presentation that if we do not do our investment, education will collapse. We will find ourselves underinvesting in education as we have in so many other programs. 
   The reality is, as was suggested before, that if we, in fact, simply fund the President's proposal by the year 2009, we will be spending 38 percent in domestic discretionary spending. There is no way that we can do that. Frankly, the political reality is that there is no way we will do that. 
   We have to recognize that we will be investing in these programs. We have to recognize, as Senator BINGAMAN has said, that one of our first priorities is to continue to invest in education. 
   Looking at these Republican proposals, I am reminded of what happened in the early 1980s. George Bush, when he was campaigning against President Reagan, described his economics as ``voodoo economics.'' It turned out to be that way. The supply side theories of cutting taxes will stimulate the economy, pay for themselves, and lead to surpluses proved dangerously in error during the 1980s. 
   Perhaps what we are talking about today when we look at these Republican proposals is ``de ja voodoo economics.'' The theory is that we will return to the same kind of deficits, the same kind of economic instability that plagued us through the late 1980s and into the early 1990s until we did take some difficult votes in 1993. 
   What Senator BINGAMAN is saying is let's recognize the reality. Let's recognize that we have to fund educational programs at least at the level of inflation. If we do that, we will have to invest at least about $132 billion. 
   That is what we should be doing. If we don't do that, we are going to lose out tremendously in the title I programs--a Federal program that provides assistance and support for low-income students. Frankly, we understand the crisis in urban and rural education that this money is so effective in dealing with. Without it, urban systems and rural systems would be situated even worse. Without it, we would be fostering and contributing to two separate and terribly unequal societies. We have to keep our commitment to these young people. 
   We would also lose opportunities to reform education, for professional development programs, for opportunities to have smaller class sizes, for opportunities to go ahead and fix crumbling school buildings throughout the country. We would do something that all Members say we would never want to do, and that is renege once again on our commitment to special education. 
   I don't know how many times I have been on the floor listening particularly to my colleagues on the other side who have been talking about how we have to put more money into IDEA, the Individuals with Disability Education Act, how we have imposed programs on localities promising robust spending, and we have never delivered. If we have not delivered on IDEA yet, if these tax proposals pass, we will never have a chance to deliver on our contribution to local school systems. 
   When we move to the area of higher education and Pell grants, work-study programs, the new LEAP program, which is an outgrowth of the State Student Center Grant Program, all of these provide opportunities for Americans to educate themselves beyond high school. We all recognize that might be the most critical issue we face as a nation--educating our citizens to enable them to assume challenging roles in the next century. 
   Yet we dramatically cut these programs, denying opportunities to thousands and thousands of Americans. We say to them again: This is not the land of opportunity; this is the land of advantage and affluence. Anyone lucky enough to pay for college with their own resources can go but don't look to the Government to provide the kind of help provided in the last several years. 
   All of these cuts lead Members to ask a very simple question for the working families of Rhode Island, for the working families of New Mexico, for the working families across this country, when they lose the Pell grants or see the urban school systems getting less and less support and local property taxes going up: are they better off with whatever tax cut they receive than these proposed programs? I think not. 
   One other aspect of the Republican proposal is a terribly distorted benefit that goes to the very wealthy at the expense of middle- and low-income America. Our constituents know education is the most important aspect facing our society. They want Congress to continue to support families. They want precisely what the Bingaman education amendment does. I believe if we listen to those people who sent us here, they will say vote for this amendment. They will say reject this deja voodoo economics that is underlying the proposals by the majority party. In fact, I hope we respond to that clarion call from our constituents. 
   I commend and thank the Senator from New Mexico for his efforts and for his time. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Professional Development Reform Act to strengthen and improve professional development for teachers and administrators. 
   I have long worked to improve the quality of teaching in America's classrooms for the simple reason that well-trained and well-prepared teachers are central to improving the academic performance and achievement of students. 
   Last Congress, I introduced the TEACH Act to reform the way our prospective teachers are trained. The TEACH Act sought to foster partnerships among teacher colleges, schools of arts and sciences, and elementary and secondary schools. 
   Such partnerships were a central recommendation of the National Commission on Teaching and America's Future to reform teacher training, and I was pleased that my legislation was included in the renewed teacher training title of the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998. 
   As Congress turns to the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the focus shifts to new teachers and teachers already in the classroom. 
   Mr. President, the legislation I introduce today would reform professional development, which too often consists of fragmented, one-shot workshops, at which teachers passively listen to experts and are isolated from the practice of teaching. 
   We don't expect students to learn their ``ABCs'' after one day of lessons, and we shouldn't expect a one-day professional development workshop to yield the desired result. 
   Research shows that such professional development fails to improve or even impact teaching practice. 
   Moreover, a recent survey of teachers found that professional development is too short term and lacks intensity. In 1998, participation in professional development programs typically lasted from 1 to 8 hours--the equivalent of only a day or less. 
   As a consequence, only about 1 in 5 teachers felt very well prepared for addressing the needs of students with  limited English proficiency, those from culturally diverse backgrounds, and those with disabilities, or integrating educational technology into the curriculum. 
   Instead, research shows that effective professional development approaches are sustained, intensive activities that focus on deepening teachers knowledge of content; allow teachers to work collaboratively; provide opportunities for teachers to practice and reflect upon their teaching; are aligned with standards and embedded in the daily work of the school; and involve parents and other community members. 
   Such high-quality professional development improves student achievement. Indeed, a 1998 study in California found that the more teachers were engaged in ongoing, curriculum-centered professional development, holding school conditions and student characteristics constant, the higher their students' mathematics achievement on the state's assessment. 
   Community School District 2 in New York City is one district which has seen its investment in sustained, intensive professional development pay off with increases in student achievement. Professional development in District 2 is delivered in schools and classrooms and focused on system-wide instructional improvement, with intensive activities such as observation of exemplary teachers and classrooms both inside and outside the district, supervised practice, peer networks, and offsite training opportunities. 
   Unfortunately, a recent national evaluation of the Eisenhower Professional Development program found that the majority of professional development activities in the six districts studied did not follow such a sustained and intensive approach. 
   And, in a recent article in the Providence Journal, some teachers noted that professional development for them has revolved around sitting and listening to experts talk about standards, rather than working closely with teachers and students to refine new methods of teaching those standards. 
   Unlike the bill passed last week in the other body which would do little to address these issues or change professional development, my legislation would create a new formula program for professional development that is sustained, collaborative, content-centered, embedded in the daily work of the school, and aligned with standards and school reform efforts. 
   To achieve this enhanced professional development, the legislation funds the following activities: mentoring; peer observation and coaching; curriculum-based content training; dedicated time for collaborative lesson planning; opportunities for teachers to visit other classrooms to model effective teaching practice; training on integrating technology into the curriculum, addressing the specific needs of diverse students, and involving parents; professional development networks to provide a forum for interaction and exchange of information among teachers and administrators; and release time and compensation for mentors and substitute teachers to make these activities possible. 
   The Professional Development Reform Act also requires partnerships between elementary and secondary schools and institutions of higher education for providing training opportunities, including advanced content area courses and training to address teacher shortages. In fact, preliminary U.S. Department of Education data show that the Eisenhower Professional Development activities sponsored by institutions of higher education are most effective. 
   My legislation will also provide funding for skills and leadership training for principals and superintendents, as well as mentors. Indeed, ensuring that our principals have the training and support to serve as instructional leaders is critical, as is ensuring that mentors have the skills necessary to help our newest teachers and other teachers who need assistance in the classroom. 
   Funding is targeted to Title I schools with the highest percentages of students living in poverty, where improvements in professional development are needed most. 
   My legislation does not eliminate the Eisenhower program, but it does require that Eisenhower and other federal, state, and local professional development funds be coordinated and used in the manner described in our bill--on professional development activities that research shows works. 
   In addition, the Professional Development Reform Act offers resources but it demands results. Strong accountability provisions require that school districts and schools which receive funding actually improve student performance and increase participation in sustained professional development in three years in order to secure additional funding. 
   In sum, my legislation seeks to ensure that new teachers have the support they need to be successful teachers, that all teachers have access to high quality professional development regardless of the content areas they teach, and that the professional development does not isolate teachers, but rather is part of a coordinated and comprehensive strategy aligned with standards. 
   Not only does the research bear this out as the way to improve teaching practice and student learning, but education leaders in my home state of Rhode Island, as well as witnesses at a recent Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing stressed the importance of this type of professional development. 
   Mr. President, the time for action is now as schools must hire an estimated 2.2 million new teachers over the next decade due to increasing enrollments, the retirement of approximately half of our current teaching force, and high attrition rates. 
   Ensuring that teachers have the training, assistance, and support to increase student achievement and sustain them throughout their careers is a great challenge. But we must meet and overcome this challenge if we are to reform education and prepare our children for the 21st Century. 
   The Professional Development Reform Act, by increasing our professional development investment and focusing it on the kind of activities and opportunities for teachers and administrators that research shows is effective, is critical to this effort. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in this essential endeavor by cosponsoring this legislation and working for its inclusion in the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I, too, wish to join Senator CHAFEE in paying tribute to the Very Reverend Abdulahad Gabriel Doumato on the occasion of his fiftieth anniversary as leader of the parish of Saint Ephraim's Syrian Orthodox Church in Rhode Island. 
   A proud and patriotic ``American'', Father Doumato loves his adopted country and is happiest when helping the new immigrants within his flock assimilate into American society. Mr. President, Father Doumato is responsible for sponsoring hundreds of new citizens to our great nation, granting them the opportunity to live the American dream. He has educated these families--including those of six of his brothers and sisters--about our system of government and the privilege, opportunity, and responsibility of American citizenship. 
   Father Doumato is often heard telling his parishioners, ``There is no country like the United States. It truly is the land of opportunity and you should thank God for the opportunity you have to live in this great land.'' A good shepherd, Father Doumato has been a shining example to his family and his flock. 
   The Doumatos are a sizable and considerable clan in Rhode Island--the extended family numbers over 120 persons. We cannot imagine that there has been a single elected official in the Blackstone Valley area, or across the State, that has not come into contact with a member of the family. Indeed, father Doumato's children, grandchildren, nephews and nieces have been industrious citizens and have served our country in numerous positions of distinction, including as officers in the Armed Forces, diplomats, university educators, U.S. Senate aides and senior advisors, engineers, and leaders in law, the arts, medicine, commerce and industry. He and his family have richly contributed to the betterment of our community in Rhode Island. 
   Mr. President, in closing, I would also like to wish Reverend Doumato and his wife, Victoria, a happy and healthy 57th Anniversary, which they will celebrate later this year. 
   May his children and grandchildren--along with his parishioners--continue to benefit from his wisdom!  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to acknowledge Mrs. Pearl Salotto of Warwick, Rhode Island for her dedicated work in establishing the ``Respect for Living Things Day'' in the state of Rhode Island. Mrs. Salotto has established a number of programs in Rhode Island including the D.J. Pet Assisted Therapy University Certificate Program, the D.J. Pet Assisted Therapy High School Program, and the D.J. Respect for Living Things Elementary School Program. Mr. President, I ask that Mrs. Salotto's op-ed on July 21st, 1999 in the Providence Journal be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of this amendment. There are many very important provisions, but I want to focus on one provision, and that is the creation at the State level of ombudsman programs or consumer assistance centers. I have been working on this provision, along with Senators WYDEN and WELLSTONE. We introduced separate legislation, and today, as part of this amendment, we are considering this very valuable and very important opportunity to empower consumers of health care services in this country. 
   One of the persistent themes we have heard throughout this debate is how do we give consumers more leverage in the system against these huge HMOs, against what appears to be illogical, indifferent decisions about the health of themselves and their families. 
   We rejected some proposals which I believe we should have embraced. For example, we just defeated an opportunity to give people a chance, in extremist, to go to court if necessary. This is something that has been adopted in Texas and is working very well. If we cannot do any of those things, then I think we must do at least this; and that is, to give the States the incentive to develop consumer assistance centers so individual health care consumers--patients--when they have frustrating denials, have someplace to turn. 
   We all know, because we all listen to our constituents, that every day there are complaints about the inability to get straight answers from their HMO, of the inability to get coverage, the inability to get what you paid for. Where do they turn? Too many Americans cannot turn anywhere today. If we pass this amendment, we will give them a chance to turn to a consumer assistance center. 
   I will briefly outline the provisions of the legislation. We provide incentives to four States to set up consumer assistance centers. These centers will operate as a source of information. They can give direct assistance in terms of advice or assistance to someone who is in a health care plan who has a question about their coverage. They will operate a 1-800 hotline. They will be able to make referrals to appropriate public and private agencies. They will not be involved in any type of litigation. This is not an attempt to provide an opportunity to recruit litigants. This is a consumer assistance center concept. I hope also that these centers will educate consumers about their rights. 
   This is something that has been promoted by many different organizations. The President's health care advisory commission in 1997 pointed out this is efficiency and every State, every region should have these types of centers. 
   We have similar centers with respect to aging and long-term care ombudsman programs working very well. Several States--Vermont, Kentucky, Georgia, and Virginia--have adopted these programs because they want to give a voice and give some type of power to their consumers in health care. Florida and Massachusetts have programs they are trying to get up and running, and just a few weeks ago on this floor in response to profound concerns we have about the military managed care program, the TriCare program, we adopted legislation that would set in motion the creation of an ombudsman program for military personnel. It is not a controversial idea. We passed this idea with overwhelming support. 
   This is something we can do. This is something we should do, and, frankly, if we rejected all the remedies we are 
   proposing to give to consumers, we have to adopt at least this one. We have to give an incentive to States for working through not-for-profit agencies to set up these consumer assistance programs. Frankly, this is something that is long overdue, noncontroversial, and it should be done. 
   I see the Senator from Oregon, who has been a stalwart on this issue, is standing. He might have a comment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank my colleague from Oregon. Let me reaffirm what my colleague said. This whole concept of ombudsman and consumer assistance centers is designed to allow the consumer in the first few hours, or even minutes, when they encounter problems in the health care system, to get advice and assistance. This is not a theoretical concept. It works already in several States. 
   California has a model program around the Sacramento area. People have benefited from this. This is what we want to see in every State in the country. 
   Again, if we cannot be sensitive enough to recognize the need for consumer assistance early in the process, then I believe we are failing the American public miserably. I hope we can embrace, support, and adopt this amendment, particularly this provision with respect to the ombudsman consumer assistance program. 
   I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I rise this evening with great regret, regret that we have  not done what we should have done to protect the children of America who are in a managed care plan. The bill before us that we will vote upon is a litany of missed opportunities and missed statements with respect to the status of children in managed care. For example, access to pediatricians. They are classified as specialists, so they cannot be automatically the primary care provider to children. Frankly, most Americans believe that is exactly who they are. 
   Second, there is no guaranteed access to pediatric specialists. We have language in this Republican proposal that talks about age-appropriate specialists. That is language written by HMO lawyers to ensure that they can magically transform an adult specialist, who might have seen a child at 1 year or 2 years, into an age-appropriate specialist, just as they do today. 
   We have a situation in which we have not provided for expedited internal and external appeals based upon developmental needs of a child. Children are different from adults. They have conditions for which an adult could wait months and months and months for adequate care, but in a child they become critical because the child's development is critical. These are shortcomings that will leave the children of America shortchanged. 
   We can and must do more. We could have done more, and we could have given all the individuals in managed care the right at least to go to consumer assistance centers, ombudsman programs, so they could have their questions resolved, and we pushed that aside. 
   Frankly, the greatest disappointment I have is that we heard a lot of discussion this evening and the last few days about the cost of this bill. We could give all these protections to children, every item in the Democratic proposal, and the cost would be negligible, because one of the good news issues is that children are generally healthy. But for those chronically ill children, it would have made all the difference in the world. 
   Today is not the day we are helping the children of America in managed care, but I hope we will some day, and that day will come, and it must come. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I will discuss several issues that are central to the debate we are having on managed care in the Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   First, I was very disappointed that the Senate rejected Senator KENNEDY's amendment which would have extended the protections of the Patients' Bill of Rights to all privately insured Americans. Those in favor of much more limited coverage, very much restricted coverage, argue that the cost in the Democratic alternative would cause many Americans to lose their health insurance through increased premiums. They argue, as we have heard time and time again, that premiums would rise and that employers would drop coverage. 
   When you actually talk to many employers, particularly those in small businesses who are represented by the American Small Business Alliance, for example, they tell quite a different story. They talk about a situation in which they have already seen premiums rise, but they get very little for what they pay for. 
   For example, Mr. Brian McCarthy, President of McCarthy Flowers and Cabs, from Scranton, PA, had this to say. His words:  
   Workers who spend time out sick or are consumed in battles with their health plan wreak havoc on the bottom line. That lost productivity costs my business a lot more than the modest premium increases that may result from this legislation.  
   He went on to add:  
   The Patients' Bill of Rights is about giving people the care they need and deserve, and it clearly gives small businesses a better deal for their health care dollar.  
   That is not the voice of a Senator, but of a small businessperson who has seen the effects of managed care on his own bottom line. 
   Another small business owner, Mr. Tom Reed, who owns Lake Motors in Eagle Lake, TX, said:  
   My premiums go up now and I get nothing, or sometimes even less coverage. The Patients' Bill of Rights at least will give me something tangible, bringing me better value for the health care money I spend.  
   Those are the words of businesspeople who are struggling with the issues. They are in favor of this legislation because they want to get what they have been paying a lot for, and that is quality health care. They will only get that with the Democratic Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   There have been studies that have supported these anecdotal comments. The Kaiser-Harvard Program on Health Policy surveyed small business executives from the small business sector, and they found that 88 percent support independent appeals such as those that are in the Democratic alternative; 75 percent support the right to see a specialist without prior approval; 61 percent favor giving people the right to sue their health plan; and fewer than 1 percent suggested that they might drop coverage if rates increased. 
   These are small business executives. This is compelling and persuasive evidence that, in order to be responsive to the needs of small businesses throughout the country, it is imperative that we pass the Democratic alternative. 
   There is another aspect of this legislation which deserves discussion, and that is the fact that health care plans, HMOs, are immune from liability because of what is apparently a loophole in the ERISA law. 
   A physician can be sued for malpractice, a physician can be sued for making misjudgments, but an insurance company, often working through nonphysicians, administrators, and reviewers, are immune from such suits. 
   This aspect of accountability is critical to making sure that 
   we have rights that are enforceable and that actually produce tangible results throughout the country. 
   In another survey, the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 73 percent of those surveyed believe that patients should be able to hold their managed care plans accountable through the courts. 
   This is not to suggest that anyone is encouraging a mass exodus to the courthouse. In fact, there is quite a bit of experience that suggests this probably will not happen. 
   In Texas, in May of 1997, bipartisan legislation was passed making it the first State where managed care organizations can be sued for medical malpractice. Like the Democratic plan, the Texas liability law is closely tied to tough, independent external review processes. In fact, you cannot take advantage of the right to sue until you have been through this independent review process. 
   Despite all the warnings about a flurry of lawsuits--the same thing we are hearing today--this has not been the experience in Texas. Neither has the State experienced increased premiums. What has happened is that both sides now are claiming success. HMOs are saying: Look, this is working. And consumers are saying: This is helping us out. In fact, according to Texas State Senator David Sibley---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent for an additional minute 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   According to one of the sponsors, Texas State Senator David Sibley, who is Republican, in his words, stated:  
   [T]he Texas experience has been very positive........Both sides are claiming victory: the HMOs are saying ``see how well it works; people aren't filing many reviews.'' The consumer groups are saying that HMOs are being more responsive and are looking more carefully at the needs of patients before they deny claims.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I was not aware of that. But I think experience is showing that it would have been an error because the law is working very well. We have a rare historic opportunity to do something to help the American people. It has been done already by the great State of Texas in many respects, but we can do much more, and we shall do much better. I would like to see the same type of protections that are available to the good people of Texas afforded to everyone in this great country. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank Senator REID for yielding. 
   This amendment contains many elements, one of which is apparently an attempt to provide access to specialty medicine and specialists. But it is an attempt that I think falls far short of the mark. 
   If you look at the definition of specialty care, it means, according to the legislation, someone who has ``adequate expertise.'' I don't know of any medical professional who would define themselves as a specialist using that terminology--it seems oxymoronic--``adequate expertise.'' 
   It also says ``age appropriate expertise.'' That is one of the crucial issues we must address. It is one of the critical differences between the Democratic proposal and the Republican amendment that is before us today, because in our proposal we specifically guarantee access to pediatric specialists. For example, these are individuals who we hope have more than ``adequate expertise.'' These are individuals who have been recognized by their colleagues as in fact highly qualified, highly specialized practitioners of medicine. 
   Their amendment is somewhat illusory. It talks about specialists. But then it just says to the insurance company that if you can find someone with adequate expertise, you can call him or her a specialist. And with respect to age, it doesn't have to be a pediatric specialist; it can just be someone who has, as I quote, ``age appropriate expertise.'' 
   What does this mean? Someone who 2 years ago saw a 12-year old or a 13-year old--the individual might, in fact, be a cardiologist, or a nephrologist, but saw the child a couple of years ago--is that ``age-related expertise?" 
   That is not what I think we have to ensure in this legislation. We should be able to guarantee to every parent that if their child is seen by a general practitioner--a pediatrician, we hope, in the case of a child--and that child needs a consultation, or referral, to a pediatric specialist, that is what will  happen. Sadly, this legislation falls far short of that. We must do that. 
   I just spent several hours on Monday at the Providence, RI, General Hospital. I met with pediatricians and pediatric specialists. They all told me the same thing. They have a lot of difficulty getting referrals in managed care to pediatric specialists. They sometimes might be offered a referral to an adult specialist. But there is a difference. I think anyone with any knowledge of the medical profession--in fact, far more than I--would identify and recognize immediately that a pediatric cardiologist and a pediatric nephrologist are in a different subset of specialties from what you find at the adult level. 
   Our legislation guarantees this type of elasticity to the family. 
   The other chorus I heard from listening to these practitioners is the fact that the primary care physician in the pediatric field today are overwhelmed because they are seeing children--particularly in the context of some of these attention-deficit disorders--and they are in five or six different types of medicines that they don't see frequently or commonly in their practice. They need to get a referral to a specialist in child psychiatry, for example, or someone who has much more expertise. And, once again, without hard, iron-clad guarantees of access to pediatric specialists, this will not happen. It is not happening now. 
   I seriously question the effectiveness of this particular language when it comes to doing what we think can and must be done; that is, to have, particularly with some of the children--I have made this point time and time again--to have children be with pediatric specialists and not just with people with ``adequate expertise,'' not just someone who may have seen a few children a few years ago but recognized pediatric specialists. 
   I continue to hammer away at this issue of children because typically they are so poorly served in managed care in regard to access to specialists. For one reason, there is a very small volume of chronically ill children who need this access. As a result, managed care panels seldom will employ these pediatric specialists. 
   For this reason, and for the reasons from the other side, my colleagues, I think this amendment falls far short of what we need to do. I strongly urge its rejection and acceptance of the Democratic alternative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I rise in strong support of the Bingaman amendment and the 
   Harkin amendment and all my colleagues who are supporting it. 
   This amendment is particularly responsive to the needs of children in the health care system. That is why it has been endorsed by the Children's Defense Fund. 
   We find when we look at the access to pediatric specialists that children don't have that kind of adequate access. As a result, they are the ones who will suffer the most, I believe, if we do not have strong, explicit language giving the right to access to pediatric specialists. 
   There was a survey done in 1992 by Pediatrics magazine. This survey indicated that of the pediatricians who were asked, 35 percent represented that they thought their patients' health outcome was severely upset by denial of access to a pediatric specialist. They found that this practice was all too common. For children, in particular with chronic illnesses, they must seek specialists. It must be clear. It must not be some type of very ambiguous language, as we find in the Republican version of the legislation. 
   Let me suggest another area when it comes to children where access to specialists is difficult. I have a letter from Paul L. Schnur, who is president of the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons. He points out that approximately 7 percent of American children are born with pediatric deformities and congenital defects such as birthmarks, cleft lips, cleft palates, absent external ears, and even more profound facial deformities. Yet, even in these compelling circumstances, he reports that it is very difficult to get a referral from a managed care plan to a specialist, and it is probably even more difficult to get a referral to a pediatric specialist. 
   Of the surgeons who indicated they had trouble getting referrals, 74 percent had patients denied coverage for initial procedures and 53 percent had patients denied coverage for subsequent procedures. 
   What you see is, access to specialists is difficult for children. Access for pediatric specialists is extraordinarily difficult for children. And unless we do something about this, we are going to find the situation where children will again and again be shortchanged by the managed care system. 
   The Republicans have said, listen, we have some in here who say it is ``age specific.'' 
   We have a great deal of respect and esteem for our colleague from Tennessee, who is a physician. I suspect if he were making these decisions about referrals to specialists, he would be sensitive to ``age specificity.'' But that is not who makes these referral decisions. It is attorneys, reviewers, bureaucrats, and technicians. And, frankly, when they see ``age specific,'' they are going to say: Well, you know, we don't have a pediatric specialist on our panel. But that is OK, because we can find somebody who perhaps saw a child in the last year or two, and that is ``age specific'' enough for us. 
   This whole approach is an invitation, once again, to the HMO to make up the rules and then make those rules work against the interests of their patients, and particularly I am concerned that they will work against the interests of children. 
   There has been some various research done about managed care plans throughout the country. But I received some firsthand information from a doctor in Los Angeles who is conducting a very interesting program. It is Dr. Craig Jones. He is at the UCLA Medical School. He has developed a ``Breathmobile program.'' This program goes right to the schools in Los Angeles, and they deal with the No. 1 environmental illness affecting children, and that is chronic asthma. 
   Dr. Jones has treated lots of children. He has had a great outcome. But they collected data. The startling thing about their data is that a child in managed care gets the same kind of treatment for severe asthma as a child without any insurance. If 
   they look at the numbers, there is no difference, because a child in managed care doesn't get the referral to a pulmonary specialist or a respiratory specialist. They get--like every other child who shows up in the emergency room--a little bag with an inhaler, and some medicine, and are told to go home. 
   We can do better, and we must do better. But we will not do better until health care plans are required to make references to specialists and, in the particular case of children, pediatric specialists. I have said this over and over again, but it still remains true. There is a difference between an adult oncologist and a pediatric oncologist. I don't think anyone in this body would dispute that. 
   One other final point, if I may make it, is that when you go around and look at how physicians are categorized and how specialists are categorized, you are not going to find an ``age appropriate'' specialty. You are not going to find someone who says, I am qualified ``age appropriate.'' They are pediatricians, neurologists, and a whole host of people who have special qualifications. We have to work with those categories and not some vague, disingenuous category which will be severely distorted by the insurance companies. 
   I urge passage of the Bingaman amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I yield myself 5 minutes of the allotted 10 minutes, and I yield the remaining 5 minutes to the Senator from Maryland, Ms. MIKULSKI. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, we are engaged in a historic debate about the future of health care in the United States. I have tried very diligently to ensure that children are a large part of this debate. 
   In conjunction with those activities, yesterday I had the opportunity to visit with pediatricians and pediatric  specialists in my State of Rhode Island at Hasbro Children's Hospital, an extraordinary hospital in Rhode Island. I am very proud of it. While listening to those professionals, I got a sense of the real needs we have to address in this debate on the Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   First of all, there is tremendous frustration by these physicians and medical professionals about their ability to care for children, their ability to effectively provide the kind of care which parents assume they paid for when they enrolled in the HMO. They are frustrated by the mindless rules. For example, one physician related to me there is the standard practice of giving a child a complete examination at the age of 1. He had a situation where a child came in at 11 months 28 days. They performed the examination, and the insurance company refused to pay because, obviously, the child was not yet 1 year old. That is the type of incredible, mindless bureaucracy these physicians are facing every day. 
   I had another physician tell me--and this was startling to me--she was treating a child for botulism. She was told the company was refusing to pay after the second day. She called--again, here is a physician who is spending valuable time calling to find out why there is no reimbursement--and she was told simply by the reviewer--not a physician, the 
   reviewer--that according to the guidelines of that HMO, no one can survive 2 days with a case of botulism; therefore, they were not paying for more than 2 days. Mercifully, the child survived, and eventually I hope they were paid for their efforts. 
   These are the kinds of frustrations they experience. This is throughout the entire system of health care. There are some very specific issues when it comes to children. One is the issue of developmental progress. An adult is generally fully developed in cognition, in mobility, in all the things that children are still evolving. Yet managed care plans seldom take into consideration the developmental consequences of a decision when it comes to children. Unless we require them to do that, they will continue to avoid that particular aspect. So a child can be denied services. 
   For example, special formulas for infants can be denied because the HMO will say: Well, it is not life-threatening; there is no serious, immediate health consequence. But the problem, of course, is, unless the child gets this special nutrient, that child is not going to develop in a healthy fashion. Five, six, seven, eight years from now, that child is going to have serious problems, but, in the view of an HMO, a dollar saved today is a dollar saved today. Oh, and by the way, that child probably will not even be in their health care system 5 years from now, the way parents and employers change coverage. 
   We have to focus on developmental issues. We also have to ensure children have access to pediatric specialists. There is the presumption that a rose is a rose is a rose, a cardiologist is a cardiologist is a cardiologist, when, in fact, a pediatric cardiologist is a very specific discipline requiring different insights and different skills. 
   We also have to recognize that many very talented pediatricians find themselves overwhelmed today with the young children they are seeing. I had one physician tell me he sees children who have problems with deficit disorders, problems with attention issues, and they have prescribed some very sophisticated pharmaceutical pills and prescriptions that he, frankly, has trouble managing because he is not a child psychiatrist. Yet they have difficulty getting access from the general practitioner to the specialist, the child psychologist to the child psychiatrist. 
   The other thing is, the system has been built upon adult standards. One of the great examples given to me is that there are new standards now to reimburse physicians when they are doing a physical, but they are based upon adult standards. The important things a physician has to do to evaluate a child are not even compensated because they are immaterial to an adult. Why would the company spend money paying a doctor to do that? This whole bias towards adults distorts the care for children in the United States. 
   The Democratic alternative which is being presented today recognizes these issues in a very pronounced and emphatic way. We do explicitly provide for access to pediatric specialists; we do specifically require, in making judgments about health care, the development of a child must be considered as part of the medical necessity test; and we also talk about developing standards, measurements, and evaluations of health care plans that are based on children and not just adults. 
   I urge all of my colleagues to endorse this concept. The best reason to pass this Democratic alternative is to help the children of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, once again we hear the same old misestimate of the costs associated with the legislation. The true cost calculated by the Congressional Budget Office is 4.87 percent over 5 years. That is exactly what Senator LOTT said on ``Meet The Press'' on July 11. In his words, ``By the way, the Democratic bill would add 4.8 percent cost. That is less than 1 percent a year.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   As I indicated, the true cost is 4.8 percent over 5 years. ``That is less than 1 percent a year.'' That is what Senator LOTT said on ``Meet The Press.'' Indeed, if you calculate that down to a monthly cost, it is about $2 extra a month to the average family paying health care premiums. It is not going to cause a huge eruption of costs. 
   It is also to me somewhat disconcerting to think that the insurance industry is worried about people losing their health care coverage. They raise costs every day. They will raise costs to protect their profits. 
   What this legislation wants to do is guarantee that there is quality in the American health care system. 
   Make no mistake, this amendment is calculated and designed to undercut all the protections in the Patients' Bill of Rights. It is calculated within 2 years to undercut and remove all of the protections that are so necessary to the American family, which we are fighting for. 
   This would be a recipe also to reward those companies that have excessive costs, and it would be virtually impossible to figure out what costs are associated with their need for profits versus what costs are associated with the increase in quality in the system. They would be doing the audits. They would essentially be exempting themselves. We are giving them a key to let them out of the responsibilities to their patients and to their consumers. We can't do that. 
   This is just another red herring, another ruse, and another device to prevent the American people from achieving what they definitely want--rights in the health care system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to address an issue of critical importance to nearly 6,000 federal workers in the state of Rhode Island and to the agencies that employ them. 
   The absence of federal locality pay for workers in Rhode Island has created serious recruitment and retention problems for federal offices due to the substantial federal pay differential between Rhode Island and the neighboring states of Massachusetts and Connecticut. 
   Let me briefly give the background on this complex issue. Nine years ago, Congress enacted the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 to correct disparities between Federal and private salaries. The Act authorized the President to grant interim geographic pay adjustments of up to 8% in certain areas with significant pay disparities during 1991-1993. Beginning in 1994, the Act provided for a nationwide system of locality pay intended to close the gap between Federal and private salaries over a nine-year period. 
   Unfortunately, implementation of the Act has created significant pay disparities among Federal employees in southern New England, in particular between Federal employees in Rhode Island and those in Massachusetts and Connecticut. 
   Rhode Island is literally surrounded by locality pay areas. On its western border, Rhode Island is adjacent to the Hartford locality pay area, which includes all of New London County, Connecticut. Rhode Island's entire northern border is adjacent to the Boston-Worcester-Lawrence locality pay area, which includes the towns of Douglas, Uxbridge, Millville, and Blackstone in Worcester County, Massachusetts; and all of Norfolk County, Massachusetts. The Boston pay locality even reaches around the state of Rhode Island to encompass the adjacent town of Thompson, Connecticut, which lies directly west of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, on the opposite side of our state from Boston. Finally, Rhode Island's eastern border is separated from the Boston locality pay area by as little as four miles. 
   One facility within a few miles of the Boston locality pay area, the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in Newport--a premier Navy R&D laboratory with world class facilities and progressive employee benefits--has seen its starting salaries continue to fall below the industry average. As a result, the Center's acceptance rate has dropped to approximately 40% and the average GPA of new employees is down. 
   The Federal Salary Council's eligibility criteria have created what I frequently refer to as a ``donut hole'' in locality pay in our region that leaves thousands of federal employees in Rhode Island with a minus 3.45% pay differential in 1999 when compared to federal employees just a few miles to the north, east, and west. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I will be happy to yield to the senior Senator from Rhode Island. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. The Senator is correct. This situation makes no sense given the similar cost of labor across southern New England and the unusually heavy commuting patterns between Rhode Island and the Boston and Hartford pay localities, especially with the Boston area. It is only 45 miles from Providence to downtown Boston. 
   The question before us now is, how did we get into this situation, and how can we correct it? The main obstacle to federal locality pay in Rhode Island is the federal government's use of county data to determine the eligibility of ``Areas of Application'' to existing pay localities. First of all, I would note that Rhode Island has no county governments, and the Federal Salary Council's use of county data is, therefore, impractical and arbitrary. Secondly, the criteria for application are structured in such a way that our state cannot become eligible. To be considered, a county must be contiguous to a pay locality; contain at least 2,000 General Schedule employees; have a significant level of urbanization; and demonstrate some economic linkage with the pay locality, defined as commuting at a level of 5% or more into or from the areas in question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. The Senator is absolutely right. And to remedy this situation, the bill we have introduced, S. 1313, the Rhode Island Federal Worker Fairness Act, will require the President's Pay Agent to consider the State of Rhode Island as one county strictly for the purposes of locality pay. We believe this bill will enable Rhode Island, the smallest state in the nation and about the same size as the average county in the United States, to apply for locality pay on an equal footing with county governments in other parts of the country. 
   We look forward to working with the distinguished Chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, Senator THOMPSON, and the Committee's ranking member, Senator LIEBERMAN, in our effort to reduce the inequities among Federal employees in our region  and enable federal offices in Rhode Island to attract and retain qualified employees. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Will the Senator from Pennsylvania yield for a few seconds for a unanimous consent request? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent to send an amendment to the desk to the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill and that the amendment be laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask that my amendment to the bill be called up at this time. It has already been laid down. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this amendment I am offering, on behalf of myself and Senator CHAFEE, deals with a problem that is particular to Rhode Island. The problem involves what is known as locality pay. That is the differential pay that Federal employees are given because of higher costs in the area in which they live and work. Essentially it is a comparison between the labor cost in the private sector and the Federal sector. If there are higher private labor costs, there is a differential added to the paycheck of the Federal employee in the particular area. 
   The problem with Rhode Island is, because of the complicated rules of allocation, my entire State is excluded from locality pay. So Federal workers who work in Rhode Island do not receive locality pay, even though their fellow workers, in some cases just a few miles away, in Massachusetts or Connecticut, receive this differential locality pay. 
   Now, the reason the rules disadvantage Rhode Island is, essentially, to qualify for locality pay, you have to have at least 2,000 workers in a county and that county has to be contiguous to another locality area. This is a map of New England and parts of New York. Because of the high cost of labor in Boston and in these major areas, such as New York City and Hartford, CT, because of the concentration of workers, these areas in blue represent locality pay areas. However, Rhode Island has been, in a sense, discriminated against because, for one thing, the managers of this program have stopped the locality line about 4 1/2 miles from the border, in some cases. In a county in which we have 3,500 workers--we have enough workers in Newport County, but we are not contiguous to a locality pay area. In northern Rhode Island, we don't have 2,000 people in a certain county, but we are contiguous to another area. So the combination of these rules of numbers of Federal employees and being contiguous to a high locality pay area works to the detriment of Rhode Island. 
   Let me suggest something else that also I think is unique in the situation of Rhode Island. We, I think unlike every other State in the U.S., do not have county governments. We don't operate anything on a county basis. Rhode Island is the smallest State in the Union, roughly 70 miles long and 35 miles wide. The concept of county is something that really is not apropos. When you look at some of the larger States in the country where counties are of sufficient size, where they easily accommodate several thousand workers, then it makes a difference but not in Rhode Island. 
   The proposal that Senator CHAFEE and I have developed is quite simple; that is, to consider the entire State of Rhode 
   Island as a county. Frankly, in the context of the United States, it is about the size of many counties. If we had that change in the law, we would have a situation where our workers in Rhode Island--we have approximately 6,000 Federal employees --would, in fact, be in an area contiguous to locality pay zones and would qualify for the extra pay. What does this mean in the paychecks of our workers? Essentially, what they are seeing is 3.45 percent less in their 1999 paychecks than people doing the same jobs in New London, CT, and in Boston, MA. In fact, Boston is about 40 miles from Providence. So we have this awkward situation. In fact, we have people who live in Rhode Island and work in Boston for the Federal Government and get paid higher than their neighbors who live in Rhode Island and work in Providence, RI. So this situation is both unfair and, I think, unfortunate. 
   Our amendment would correct that situation and it would do so in a way which, I think, would not do great damage to the overall structure of locality pay throughout the United States. After all, we are talking really about a unique situation--the smallest State in the country, which has no effective counties in it as a measure of  any governmental type of activity. So I suggest very strongly that we approach this with a legislative solution. 
   I must thank both the subcommittee chairman, Senator CAMPBELL of Colorado, and also the chairman of the authorizing committee, Senator THOMPSON. We have been talking with both individuals and they have been most helpful, as have their staffs. They have suggested that we can probably, with their assistance, make more progress by simply today discussing and describing the issue and then relying upon our mutual efforts to try to derive some type of administrative solution to this issue. 
   Let me say one other thing that makes this a very compelling problem to us. This is not simply going out and saying I want to have my workers treated the same way their brethren and sisters are treated just 30 miles away; there is something else here. We find it, in certain cases, difficult to recruit Federal workers to come into the Rhode Island area because if they have a choice between going to Boston or to parts of Connecticut, or parts of Long Island, NY, in the same region, they will choose these other regions because they will automatically get a 3, 4, 5 percent pay increase, simply by choosing to work in Boston rather than working in Providence. 
   We have, in the past, tried to recruit individuals to come into our FBI and our Secret Service office, and many, many qualified people have said: I would love to work there. The challenges are there, the career potential is there, but the problem is, how can I turn to my family and say I am going to take a 3, 4, 5 percent pay cut? 
   This really affects our ability to recruit those individuals that we need--as anyplace needs--to effectively run our Federal agencies. So both Senator CHAFEE and I are concerned about and committed to this issue. First, we recognize that this is something that, with the cooperation and the help of the Appropriations Committee and Senator CAMPBELL, and the authorizing committee with Senator THOMPSON, and their ranking members, we hope we can make progress on the administrative front. 
   At this time, unless the Senator from Colorado has comments, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. BINGAMAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the state of home ownership in the U.S., in addition to legislation I am introducing with Senator SCHUMER  and Senator EDWARDS to enable more families to achieve the American dream of home ownership. 
   Today, we have many reasons to celebrate. Indeed, the national home ownership rate has soared to an all-time high of almost 67 percent, which is up from 64 percent in 1993. Of further significance, this increase has, in large measure, been fueled by the growth in home ownership among minority households. In fact, minorities were responsible for 42 percent of the increase in home ownership between 1994 and 1997, although they only account for 17 percent of the home owner population. 
   Despite these positive developments, a number of distressing trends should give us cause for concern. For example, minority home ownership rates still lag significantly behind those of non-minority households: 45 percent for minorities versus 72 percent for white households. In addition, only 45 percent of low-income households live in owner-occupied homes, as compared to 86 percent of high-income households. 
   These alarming disparities have broad societal implications because of the tremendous benefits associated with home ownership. Historically, home ownership has been the key to wealth creation in this country, and wealth in the form of home equity has enabled families to start businesses, finance their children's education, and cover unexpected expenses. Consequently, unequal home ownership rates lead to wealth disparities. In fact, the median wealth of non-elderly low income home owners is 12 times greater than the median wealth of non-elderly renters of the same income. 
   In addition to wealth-building, home ownership has a positive effect on families and on our communities. Indeed, research has found that children of homeowners are less likely to become involved in the justice system, drop out of school, or have children out of wedlock. Moreover, home ownership is correlated with membership in community organizations and voting, as well as participation in neighborhood enhancing activities. 
   In view of the substantial benefits associated with home ownership, the Federal Government has actively worked to increase the home ownership rate. The primary tools in this effort have been the mortgage interest and the real estate tax deductions. Although these tax deductions have reduced the costs of home ownership for many, they are of little use to low-income households because their itemized tax deductions generally do not exceed the standard deduction. As such, over 90 percent of the total benefits of the mortgage interest deduction accrue to home buyers with incomes greater than $40,000, and because of the progressive nature of federal income tax rates, even if lower-income households do itemize their deductions, they receive a smaller deduction as a percentage of income than more affluent buyers. 
   To attack the home ownership disparity between low- and upper-income households, the Federal Government has relied on the Mortgage Revenue Bond (MRB) program, the Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC) program, and, to a limited extent, the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program. Under these programs, the Federal Government subsidizes interest rates to reduce monthly mortgage costs for low-income home owners. 
   While these programs have been successful, their effects have been limited. Indeed, the size of these programs, as measured by their annual cost--$2.2 billion--pales in comparison to the annual cost of the mortgage and real estate tax deductions--$58 billion. 
   Also, while attacking the income constraints that prevent many low-income families from being able to afford monthly mortgage costs, these programs do not address wealth constraints such as a lack of savings for a down payment and closing costs, that keep many low-income families from becoming home owners. 
   During these times of economic prosperity, we have a rare opportunity to close the home ownership gap that exists between low-income and upper-income families. To this end, I am introducing legislation to establish a Home Ownership Tax Credit targeted to low-income families. This legislation, which has been developed in conjunction with Harvard's Joint Center on Housing Studies, the Brookings Institution, and Self-Help Community Development Corporation, would attack the wealth and income constraints that prevent many low-income families from becoming home owners. 
   Under this legislation, the Federal Government would issue tax credits to participating lenders who would then be obligated to extend either low-interest or zero-interest second mortgages to low-income families. These second mortgages would effectively be used to cover the downpayment and closing costs, although a prospective home buyer would still be required to make a small contribution toward the purchase. Families could defer repayment on the second mortgage for 25 years, at which point a balloon payment would come due, or they could repay the second mortgage over 30-years, concurrent with the repayment of their first mortgage. In either event, the interest rate on the second mortgage would be subsidized, which would lower families' monthly mortgage costs. Also, these second mortgages would eliminate the need for private mortgage insurance, providing additional savings of roughly $60 per month. Under this proposal, families earning as little as $14,500 would, for the first time, have the opportunity of realizing the American dream of home ownership. 
   Mr. President, I believe this legislation represents a common-sense approach to addressing the home ownership disparity which exists and I would hope my colleagues can be supportive. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Vermont for his graciousness in allowing me to speak. I rise today to express my opposition to the Brownback amendment which would implement the Silk Road Strategy Act of 1999. I urge my colleagues to support the second-degree amendment offered by Senators MCCONNELL, ABRAHAM, and SARBANES. I am also a cosponsor of the second-degree amendment. 
   The purpose of Senator BROWNBACK's amendment is appropriate, in the sense  he wants to provide assistance to integrate the Caucasus, provide more cooperation and collaboration between these countries. But what we have seen over the last several decades, really, has been the resistance, particularly by the Government of Azerbaijan and the Government of Turkey, to a cooperative and collaborative relationship with the Government of Armenia. That is a polite way of saying they have been blockading Armenia for many years. 
   In response to that blockade, we have passed, I think wisely, legislation in this Congress and preceding Congresses to prevent our cooperation with these countries unless they lift the blockade. It has been the only real way we have been able to put leverage upon the governments of Turkey and Azerbaijan to recognize that a dialog, cooperation, collaboration, and regional harmony is necessary. 
   The interesting and ironic point at this juncture is that our strategy seems to be working because for the first time, in the context of the NATO meetings here in Washington just a few weeks ago, the President of Armenia and the President of Azerbaijan had face-to-face meetings. 
   Up until that time, the Azeris refused to even recognize, really, the Government of Yerevan to have a constructive dialog. Now at the point where we are making progress, where we have a dialog initiated by the Azeris and the Armenians, we are attempting to undercut that progress with this amendment which will essentially take all the pressure off both the Azeris and the Turks in terms of their relationship with Armenia and, in particular, the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. 
   Nagorno-Karabakh has been for generations an area of concentrated Armenian population but under the control of Azerbaijan. In 1988, Nagorno-Karabakh seceded from Azerbaijan. There was warfare. Mercifully, the warfare has ceased, but this is still a festering point among the three countries--Nagorno-Karabakh, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. 
   Again, if we are to make progress on this very critical issue, the issue of Nagorno-Karabakh, the issue of the general relationship among Armenia and its neighbors, Azerbaijan and Turkey, now is not the time to take off the one piece of leverage, section 907, which is giving the Azeris an incentive to go to the table, sit down, and talk and collaborate. 
   I have had the privilege and the opportunity to travel to Armenia and to Nagorno-Karabakh. There is a sincere willingness to seek an understanding, to seek a cooperative arrangement with the Azeris, with the Turks. But that cannot happen unless there is a dialog. 
   The dialog has started, but my fear is that if we adopt this measure, proposed with every good intention by the Senator from Kansas, we will undercut the progress we have made. We will send a strong message to the Azeris that they do not have to do anything, they do not have to talk to the Armenians, they do not have to do anything, because they now are unrestricted in terms of their type of diplomatic initiatives. 
   It will be terribly unfortunate, and it will essentially undercut the motivation which I believe is compelling and moving this underlying amendment of the Senator from Kansas forward: the notion of regional dialog, regional cooperation, regional collaboration. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the amendment proposed by the Senator from Kentucky, because that is the only way we are going to keep both the Azeris and the Armenians at the table. We know from a long sweep of history, if two nations are talking, then there is hope. Once the dialog is over--and it will end if section 907 is repealed--we are going to see a much more hostile and threatening environment in the Caucasus, one which will not only impact our relationship but also will be a threat to the stability of that region. 
   I thank and commend the Senator from Kentucky, the Senator from Maryland, Mr. SARBANES, Senator ABRAHAM from Michigan, and those who are standing up and saying, now that we are making progress, now that we finally have a dialog between the President of Azerbaijan and the President of Armenia, do not take away the motivation for that dialog; let's continue to talk; let's continue to work for peace in this area. 
   I yield back any time to the Senator from Vermont. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from California. 
   Let me follow up and perhaps engage in a brief dialog. I think the Senator from Minnesota made a good point about the heart of the Republican legislation. The most telling point, in my view, is the coverage. It simply covers one-third of the eligible private-insured individuals throughout the country. 
   As I understand the legislation, it is aimed at those self-insurers. These are businesses that contract with HMOs simply to manage the health care of their employees, so the only people who will directly be impacted by their legislation are those individuals who are essentially insured by their employers directly through self-insurance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. In a sense, the only protections in the Republican bill are protections for the insurance industry. They are completely without risk. All of their patients, all of the people they directly insure, where they directly assume the risk, are exempt from coverage by this legislation. 
   The Democratic bill covers all of those who are private-insured HMOs throughout the United States. If the logic is these protections are good enough and necessary enough for those in employer-sponsored self-insured plans, why aren't they good enough, important enough, necessary enough, for those who are direct insurers of HMOs? 
   The answer, frankly, is that the legislation has been designed to protect the insurance companies from any additional risk. It is fine if we put it on employers; it is fine if they have to pay extra or if they have to do these things. 
   However, the only consistent pattern if you look at the coverage, this is not a patients' protection bill; this is an insurance industry protection bill. 
   I yield to the Senator for her comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I will speak for a few moments about a topic that has consumed many of us for many days this week and preceding weeks, and that is the Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   A particular concern to me has been the status of children in the various versions of the Patients' Bill of Rights. I argue very strenuously and very emphatically that the Democratic proposal recognizes the key differences between children and adults when it comes to health care, and there is a significant difference. For a few moments, I will try to sketch out some of these differences. 
   First of all, if one looks at the adult population in terms of types of illnesses, they are characterized as chronic diseases with relatively simple symptoms, simple manifestations with known consequences. They are quantifiable over a short period of time. Prostate cancer, breast cancer, heart attack are familiar diseases to all of us. 
   The other aspect of adults is that there is a large volume of adults who have these types of diseases. As a result, there is more than a sufficient supply not only of physicians but of specialists, those who are particularly skilled and particularly knowledgeable about the most efficacious treatments one can use for these types of conditions. 
   In contrast, children present another type of population to the health professionals. The good news is that most children are healthy. But if a child is sick, that child usually does not have one of these chronic diseases that is well-researched and well-treated and staffed by numerous specialists, but something more complicated. In fact, as the professionals say, these diseases are usually complex and with multiple co-morbidities. For the layperson, that means different problems interrelated causing a much more complicated case for the physician. 
   There is another aspect of this dichotomy between adult health and children's health. There are so many  healthy children --the good news. The bad news is in terms of managing this population, there is a very small volume of very sick children. This makes it very difficult for physicians to maintain their clinical competency, particularly for general practitioners. They will see many adults who have similar symptoms and they know very well how to treat them. By contrast, they very rarely see chronically ill children, so treating them effectively becomes especially difficult for a general practitioner. 
   Another difficulty is the sense these general practitioners or even adult specialists can treat this population of patients. There is a further complicating factor, that is, to manage cases you need volume, you need data, you need to understand what the best treatments are, and you can only do that in a rational way by studying lots and lots of cases and, frankly, because of the nature of children's health, they do not have the same type of volume in children's diseases as they do in adult illnesses. 
   One other complicating factor is that many times children's true health conditions manifest themselves long after they have actually contracted the condition. It is not the short duration, it is not the heart attack that one can rush the person into the emergency room, do the surgery, apply the drugs, and get that adult on the road to recovery. It is much different when it comes to a child. 
   Managed care organizations and the way they deliver care can compound these inherent differences between the adult population and the children's population. 
   First, let me give credit where credit is due. When a managed care plan does it right, they do preventive care very well. They can anticipate, through the management of the child's case, 
   immunizations and well-baby visits, et cetera. But there are certain inherent characteristics of the managed care system of health care delivery that makes it--appropriate for adults but less appropriate for children. That is why we have to focus a part of our efforts on making sure that children are truly recognized in the legislation we are discussing. 
   First of all, because there are a relatively small number of very sick children, there is not the adequate number of patients for the HMO to maintain a number of pediatric specialists in their provider network. The other fact is that HMOs tend to fragment the market. They go after parts of the market and leave other parts out, but they do not tend to accumulate large groups of children so that a pediatric specialist in a particular area can be fully employed. 
   Another aspect of the managed care delivery system is that they typically look for an affiliation with what they call centers of excellence, hospitals that are well-known for their practice in a certain field of medicine. In most cases, what they consider to be the center of excellence is a center that provides the best adult medicine because after all, they are marketing their products to adults, not to children. They are marketing their products to human resource managers who have to buy for a company, or they are marketing directly to people who make decisions about health care who are by definition adults. When they are out looking for centers of excellence, they are looking for those hospitals that have the best urology departments, have the best records with prostate cancer and breast cancer and heart attack. That is another built-in aspect of the HMO dilemma which complicates the care to children. 
   There is something else. There is an economic incentive for these HMOs to refer children to adult specialists and not to pediatric specialists. There is a great difference between a cardiologist and a pediatric cardiologist because of the differences in caring for a child versus caring for an adult. The incentives are sometimes very compelling. 
   For example, if you have a staff model HMO--that is where the doctor actually works for the HMO--you have a cardiologist simply because that is expected, and if you look at the numbers, you are likely to have a lot of adult cardiology patients and very few children. To add a pediatric cardiologist increases the fixed costs. Why do that when you can simply make a referral to the adult cardiologist that is already in the plan's network? 
   When you look at the nonstaff model, one where they will contract with individual physicians, typically what they will do is look at volume discounts. A physician will say: Sure, I will sign up for so much per visit, but you have to assure me that I will get a lot of visits. That is another incentive to drive children not to pediatric specialists but to adult specialists. 
   As a result, these incentives tend to diminish the quality of health care that HMOs give to children, particularly very sick children. It is not because they have some type of grudge against kids. It is simply, if you look at the market dynamics, if you look at the volume they are trying to manage, it all argues against the type of care that sick children must be assured. In other words, there is a failure in the market to recognize the needs of children. 
   That is why we have to step in. That is why we have to require HMOs to make sure that there is access to pediatric specialists, to make sure HMOs are tracking the health progress of children, to make sure they are measuring their outcomes in terms of children and not just adults. If we do not, the system will always be driven to the needs of the adults who managed care plans are trying to recruit as patients. Another way to say this very simply is that HMOs operate on economies of scale. That is how they make the money. And children with particularly complicated pediatric health care cases do not conform to those types of economies of scale. 
   I mentioned before there are other particular issues about the health status of children that make them distinct from adults, and one of them is the fact that children are still developing. They are constantly changing their functional levels --mobility, toddlers start walking, and then they start running, speech, puberty--all issues which are seldom associated with adult health. 
   As a result, unless you consider development as a first order of priority, you are going to overlook a lot of the emphasis that should be placed on children's health care. I suggest that most HMOs do not factor in the sensitivities to development that are so necessary. 
   Also, when you get into a situation like this, when the development of a child is at stake, the challenge is early intervention. 
   It is not simply catching the disease someplace along its course and providing some type of treatment. It is early intervention. 
   There are numerous examples. One that I recently read about is a condition in infants called strabismus, which is muscle weakness of the eye. If it is not corrected soon after birth when the neurological connections between the eye and the cortex of the brain are being formed--again, this is not a situation that an adult would ever encounter--if you do not catch it early, you are going to have significant and irreversible loss of sight. 
   That is a special concern for kids, a very serious developmental concern for children diagnosed with the disease. That is why we need to make sure that development is built into HMOs consideration of the type of treatment and services they provide children. The economics of HMOs means they will not do it themselves. Therefore, we must make it our job. I think that is what is part and parcel of a good part of the Democratic initiative. 
   Let me suggest something else on the issue of development. My colleague from California, Senator FEINSTEIN, and so many others, have talked about medical necessity. This whole definition of medical necessity tends really to prejudice kids from getting a fair shake in HMOs, for many reasons. 
   First of all, most medical necessity determinations are documented by data. How efficacious is the treatment? How often do we use it? And it goes right back to one of the inherent issues: The very lack of the volume of seriously ill children to generate the kind of data, treatments and outcomes. 
   There is nothing in the law that I can see today at the Federal level that even requires HMOs to start thinking about outcomes, to start thinking about effectiveness in terms of kids. 
   The other thing that we should be concerned about is that a lot of medical necessity is cost based--using the cheapest option. Once again, when you have a very small volume of very sick  kids, the appropriate form of treatment may be extremely costly. 
   Another factor concerning medical necessity is that usually it is tied to the notion that a health plan will not pay for innovative treatment. It will not pay for experimental treatment. 
   Once again, many of the treatment modalities used for children, simply because they are not routine, can be called innovative or experimental. That is another example of how children are prejudiced by the system. It is something that we have to correct. 
   Finally, very seldom will you find in the definition of medical necessity this concept of developmental impacts, beyond simply returning to normal function. As a result, it is easy for HMOs to say a treatment or procedure is not medically necessary when children present themselves or their parents present them for care. It is not threatening their lives today, or even their ability to function today. However, they probably know that months from now, a year from now, 2 years from now, their development will be severely impaired. But that is not part of medical necessity. So that is another example of why we have to step up to the plate, particularly when it comes to children. 
   We have learned so much about the development of young children, particularly from ages 0 to 3, including the way the brain develops. 
   Once again, this is an issue that has very little correlation with adult experience. Children are developing. 
   Just a few examples. 
   At the Baylor College of Medicine there was a survey of abused and neglected children. They focused on 20 children who they described, in technical jargon, as living in ``globally understimulating environments.'' In other words, these children were rarely touched; they had no real opportunity to play; they had no opportunity to explore and experiment. They found that the brains of these young children were 20 to 30 percent smaller than 
   those of children who had the opportunity to be stimulated. Indeed, literally parts of their brains had wasted away. Again, this is an issue that would never confront a practitioner looking at an adult. 
   Another example relating to development is in the area of childhood trauma. We have been able to show, through scientific examination, that children who have witnessed violence have physically continued to register that violence, they remain in a high-alert state, and this leads to emotional, behavioral and learning problems. 
   Again, these are conditions that you would never find in an adult, with some exceptions of course. But they are part and parcel of the developmental process of children. If we do not understand that, we do not recognize it. If we do not provide particular protections for children, it will not be done by the HMOs. It costs too much. They do not have the data. It is just something that they do not think about a lot. 
   I see my colleague from Oregon is here. Let me make one other point, if I could. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Oregon. 
   I want to make one final point about children, and then I would very much like to yield to the Senator. And I compliment him, too, on his efforts because we are working together on many of these issues, including children's health. 
   One final point: Children's health is, I would argue, more dependent on environmental conditions than adults. Of course, there are certain situations in the workplace where adults are exposed to chemicals, and we try to deal with that in terms of regulations and standards. However, it is also important to recognize that children are particularly prone to environmental and sociological conditions. 
   For instance, lead poisoning--it is an epidemic in so many cities. In my city of Providence it is an epidemic. But it is not just Rhode Island, it is across the country. 
   For too long, we used lead paint in houses, and now we do not have enough HUD money to clean up homes that have lead-based paints. That is why so many children have lead paint poisoning. 
   We have to recognize, for kids, is they these are important health problems. We have to be developing mechanisms so managed care organizations recognize these issues as health problems and that the Government recognizes them as health problems, and that they work together with linkages. 
   My final point is, unless we pass the kind of language that we have in the Democratic alternative, we are not going to give the special needs of children the attention it needs and deserves. When we start collecting the data, when we start having the HMOs publish what they do for kids--what is their success rate with kids? How many kids with complicated conditions do they have enrolled in their program? When we start doing that, they are going to have an incentive to start talking to the schools and the local authorities about their patients because now they have a real visible, accountable incentive to do it. 
   Just one final point: Again, Bruce Clarke, Gen. Bruce Clarke, one of the great combat leaders of World War II, said--and I remember this from my days at West Point--``A unit does well what its commander checks. If the commander doesn't check, you are not going to find that unit paying attention.'' 
   We have not been checking on kids in HMOs in this country. I do not think they are doing particularly well as a result. When we start checking on kids specifically, as the Democratic alternative does, then we will start doing much better, I think we will start doing well. 
   I yield to the Senator from Oregon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Oregon for his very kind words. Let me also thank him for his help and support in working so closely with me and Families USA and others to ensure that this proposal will work for all consumers and for the insurance industry as well. 
   Part of our attempt is to find answers before, as the Senator from Oregon has said, they wind up in court. My experience--I think your experience, too--is that people want their health care to be addressed. They don't want a lawsuit. They want to get their children cared for. They want their own health care. This is not an attempt to figure out some way to get involved in a messy multiyear litigation process. Yet if there are no mechanisms, such as an ombudsman and an internal/external review process, if we don't have these mechanisms, that is where we inevitably will find ourselves. 
   Let me quickly accept the Senator's invitation to lay out some of the details. 
   First, it would be a State-based program, not a national program in the sense of some collective wisdom here in Washington, but each State could design their own ombudsman program. We would 
   provide financial support. There would be some general guidelines for the states to follow. Basically, this ombudsman operation or consumer assistance operation would inform people about their plan options that are available and to answer other questions about a person's health plan. 
   Frankly, one of the great dilemmas most of our constituents have is, they don't know whom to ask about health plans, what health plans are available. This would be a source, a clearinghouse, if you will, for that type of information. 
   Then the ombudsman or the consumer assistance center would operate a 1-800 telephone hotline to respond to consumer questions and requests for information--again, such a necessary ingredient, for several reasons: First, the general befuddlement one experiences when you try to read a health plan contract. Two, I sense there is deep skepticism about the kind of response you expect to receive from your own insurance company about your rights and your benefits, if you get a response at all. Too many times I have heard constituents say they have just found themselves entangled in a voice mail hell, if you will. As you push one number and find one recording, you push another number and find another recording. The ombudsman program with the 1-800 number would serve as a place where you could get information and get it quickly. 
   Then this objective ombudsman, or woman, as the case may be, would provide assistance to people who think they have a grievance. They would have an opportunity for a patient to go in and say: My plan said I could not have this procedure for my child. My doctor says my child needs it. Can you help me? Frankly, not only will the ombudsman help the individual consumer, but they will look at the plan, and they will conclude that under the terms and conditions of the contract, that is or is not covered. 
   It won't be the insurance company protecting their own interest, it will be an objective agency that will be able to step in and advocate for consumer rights when they need to vindicate their rights and explain to them the limitations of the policy, when that is the case. 
   That is the general outline. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Reclaiming my time, it is quite specific in the legislation. Again, the Senator is one of the contributors to this legislation, along with Senator WELLSTONE, and I thank him. 
   The ombudsman, or the consumer assistance center, could not participate in litigation. Their scope of participation is informal and could include contacting the insurance company, explaining rights, advocating for the patient as an ombudsman, not as a lawyer, not as a litigator. 
   Let me add one other point and then, again, yield to my colleague from Oregon. Interestingly enough, again I think he has identified an issue that we all can rally around. One of the great talents the Senator from Oregon brings to the Senate is an ability to be a bridge in so many different ways, i.e., the Education Flexibility Act--to find a mechanism that we all can agree upon. 
   This is another one of these areas. Interestingly enough, a few weeks ago we passed with little controversy and with much enthusiasm the defense authorization bill that included an authorization for an ombudsman program to address the problems and complaints associated with military HMOs--the TRACER system--looking at the same problem that all of the Senator's constituents from Oregon face, and all of my constituents face, but in the context of military families and complaints, and legitimate complaints of military families. They cannot get the care they need. They cannot get the answers. They get the runaround. They do not get the support. 
   In response to that, this body voted enthusiastically to authorize an ombudsman for the TRACER system. Frankly, both the Senator from Oregon and I are saying if it works well, or we think it is going to work well for our military families who are enrolled in an HMO that has a great deal of responsibility for them, why not give it a chance in the context of the private insurance HMO industry in the United States? 
   I think that underscores what the Senator from Oregon has said. This is not controversial. This is helpful. This  is practical. This is not about litigation, it is about making sure that people get answers, that people get results, and that people get the care. That is what I think we are all here to do. 
   Again, I will yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Very quickly, we have been working, as the Senator knows, closely on the Reed-Wyden-Wellstone proposal, which was formally introduced as separate legislation. It is incorporated in the Democrat Patients' Bill of Rights. I know Senator COLLINS of Maine is very interested in this issue. I think she is also convinced that this is important and significant. 
   Let me also say that the Senator from Oregon made reference to his experience as a senior advocate. There are, in fact, senior ombudsman programs throughout the United States which we support with the Older Americans Act. These programs have been very effective and are doing precisely what we want to do in the context of managed care. 
   Again, we just adopted an ombudsman program for military personnel in the TRICARE system. It was noncontroversial. In fact, we have a great deal of expectation and hope that this will be helpful to our military families. We are working together across the aisle. I hope that we can also incorporate this provision in whatever Patients' Bill of Rights legislation that emerges. It is not designed to be a tool of litigation; it is designed to be a tool of conciliation. 
   On those grounds, I am optimistic and hopeful. 
   But, once again, let me finally conclude by thanking the Senator from Oregon not only for our colloquy this afternoon but also for his support, not only on this issue but so many others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Before yielding the floor, let me just say that I, along with my colleague from Oregon, must recognize Families USA and Ron Pollack for the inspiration and thoughtful analysis that helped propel this proposal. It is a good one. 
   Frankly, we could do very well in this Senate this year if we could protect children through better managed care legislation and give all of our citizens a real voice in our health care decisions through an ombudsman program. This will be a very satisfactory and very successful endeavor for all of us in the Senate. 
   With that, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Reserving the right to object, I do not intend to object, but I want to echo a comment of the Democratic leader. That presumption is that this flexible process will allow a sufficient number of amendments to come to the floor, that it will not be a process where one or two amendments are brought up and then through a series of extended second-degree amendments delayed? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. We are really talking about a procedure where we could fully ventilate all the issues--and there are numerous issues that are inherent in this bill. I hope that is the spirit and the actuality of the agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I withdraw my objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order of the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order of the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   Madam President, I want to spend a few moments talking about aspects of the Patients' Bill of Rights, which is an amendment to the agricultural appropriations bill before us this afternoon. We are faced with a very clear choice: Are we going to finally debate and consider in some detail a Patients' Bill of Rights which will give every American a clear opportunity to have the kind of quality health care we all support and we all want them to have, or will we continue to be shut out, will we continue to avoid confronting a critical issue which, to the people of Rhode Island, is probably one of the most critical issues they face. 
   If one goes to the people in my State and talks to them about their concerns, particularly since there has been an economic revival, a primary concern for them is whether they will have adequate health care for their families and themselves, particularly for their children, when they need it. 
   One of the aspects of the Democratic bill, which I think is very salutary and commendable, is with regard to accountability. It provides not only for internal and external review, but also for patient advocacy and patient protection. 
   There are three procedural points that should be included in any Patients' Bill of Rights. First, there has to be clear liability directed against a health plan if they make mistakes in the care of their patients. 
   One of the great ironies of our system is that physicians can be sued for their malpractice, yet insurance companies are invulnerable to such suits. To put it in balance, since so many health care decisions are now being made not by physicians but by review specialists, accountants, and analysts, the insurance company itself should also be liable for its decisions. 
   We also have internal and external appeals processes so there is no rush to the courthouse, but an individual can get relief quickly and efficiently for a health plan decision. When people are dealing with their health insurer, all they want is the best care for themselves and their families. They want their medical problems to be resolved, they want access to the specialists they need, and they want the plan to respond to their needs. In fact, they simply want what they paid for. 
   There is another aspect to consider--that is to help consumers negotiate through the intricate maze of health insurance rules and regulations and to give them the leverage that will level the playing field between health care consumers and the bureaucrats who run health care plans. 
   Toward that end, Senator WYDEN, Senator WELLSTONE, and I have introduced a separate legislation which  would provide for a health care consumer assistance, or ombudsman program, in every State. It would establish a mechanism whereby States would be able to provide information and counseling services to assist health care consumers. 
   This provision has been incorporated in the Patients' Bill of Rights, and it is a necessary provision because people are not getting the information they need to make the health care system work effectively for them. For instance, studies show that the existing appeals process, both internal and external, are being underutilized. In fact, there is a very deep suspicion, not only in my mind but the minds of many, that health plans make it almost impossible to get adequate review. 
   They put up procedural hurdles. They have set up a series of barriers that leave the average consumer without any redress and, as a result, they become frustrated and give up. 
   Another suspicion which undermines the faith in the managed care industry is that this frustration is a deliberate, calculated attempt by companies to reduce their costs. They are hoping that 
   the consumer, rather than pressing for their rights, will just go away, will give up, and will accept whatever the health plan offers. 
   I believe we can improve this system dramatically if we have consumer assistance centers in place throughout the United States. These systems will help consumers understand their rights, and will also help to understand in some cases where they do not have a legitimate grievance. One of the virtues of this approach is it will give a consumer of health care an objective place to get an answer. Today some people call the insurance company, where they get different answers and they may get suggestions of what the contract does and does not cover. 
   Unfortunately, it seems that they get everything except straight answers. As a result, they do not have confidence in the health care system. Consumer assistance, or ombudsman centers that are administered by States can restore a measure of confidence in the system. 
   Interestingly, this Senate is already familiar with the concept of a health care ombudsman, and at the time, it was supported virtually unanimously. On the Armed Services Committee, we have been studying the issues of managed care in the military, the TriCare system. Many of the complaints with the TriCare system are the same types complaints we hear about managed care in general: Quality is not good, we can't get care, we can't get answers. 
   As a result, we responded in the defense authorization bill this year. One of the things we did was create within the TriCare system an ombudsman program, an advocacy program, so when military men and women have questions about their families' health, they do not have to get the runaround from the local insurance company; they can go to the ombudsman who can give them help, support, and assistance to get their claim resolved or, in some cases, to explain that the insurance company is well within its rights to make the decision they made. 
   I find it interesting and ironic that an ombudsman provision could sweep through the defense authorization bill and be endorsed as something not only noncontroversial but terribly helpful. 
   Yet, as we consider managed care reform, we are struggling with this issue, among many others. 
   My view is simple: If it makes sense for our military personnel--and we are all committed to giving them the best health care--we should have the same type of sensitivity for the broader population of our country. That is why the Reed-Wyden-Wellstone bill, which is part of the Democratic managed care initiative, is an integral part and one that should be considered, debated, and, I hope, adopted when we get--we hope--to the debate and the votes on managed care. 
   Our consumer assistance, or ombudsman, program would perform several functions. 
   First, let me point out that our proposal would establish a competitive grant program for States. It would give them the flexibility to set up a program according to their best sense of how to be of assistance and also that it be cost effective. They would, however, be required to meet certain general guidelines. 
   One of the functions of the ombudsman, would be to inform people about health care plan options that would be available. There are lots of examples where consumers do not find out about their health care coverage until they have a health care crisis. 
   I was reading the case of a mother who had a daughter who required eye therapy. The daughter was suffering from autism. One of the complications of that disease is eye problems which requires detailed exercises for the eyes. If that is not done, the child rapidly loses the ability to see, the ability to function appropriately. 
   She went to her health plan and said: I was told to ask you to give my daughter a referral to an eye specialist for therapy. They said: No; you can't do that, because it is not covered under your contract. She went back and read the contract--all the fine print, all the pages and pages and pages--and discovered, much to her disappointment, much to her chagrin, that indeed this was an excluded service. 
   The point is, if there is a place that parents or anyone can go to beforehand and say: I have a daughter who has a condition, and there are complications with her sight, and other things; what advice do you have for me about plans? what are the best plans? what knowledge do you have about the plans that are available to me? that would be an immense help to the families of America. 
   The other thing that would be created is a 1-800 telephone hotline to respond to consumer questions. Again, why don't we have this? Why don't we have a place where a consumer can say: I have just talked to my health care plan; they told me I can't do this? 
   Why can't we have at least a hotline? In effect, we have lots of little fragmented hotlines. Every one of our offices is a 1-800 hotline for people who are frustrated with their health care. We do it in an ad hoc way. We try to help our constituents. But, frankly, we could do it better and more consistently through an ombudsman program. 
   Also, what we want to do is help people who think they have been improperly denied care. We want to help them, and not in an adversarial way, but to provide technical advice. It could be helping them write a letter to the insurance company to make an appeal, or explaining their appeal rights to them. 
   As I said before, many people simply do not understand their appeal rights. It could be that insurance companies do not want them to understand their appeal rights, that they would like them to walk away frustrated, but it not costing the insurance companies any extra money. So for all these reasons, I think an ombudsman program is an absolutely critical part of any managed care reform. 
   One other reason why an ombudsman program is important is that it could be a way to reduce the potential for litigation. This could be a way to solve problems before they get to the point that the only alternative a consumer thinks he or she has is to get a lawyer. This could be a way to make the system work better without 
   running the risk--and I know this risk is conjured up by the insurance companies every day--of litigation run amok across the United States. So for many reasons, I believe an ombudsman program makes so much sense. 
   This is not a theoretical response to hypothetical problems. Let me offer a couple of real cases which beg for the kind of consumer assistance we are suggesting in the Democratic alternative. 
   This is the story of Ms. Carolyn Boyer. Ms. Boyer is a 50-year-old woman who has been battling breast cancer for about 6 years. Like so many patients, she has had to wage a separate battle with her insurance company. Time and time again, her health plan has tormented her with payment followups and a host of bureaucratic hurdles that prevented her from getting timely payment for the services she needs. 
   This is one example. In the spring of 1996, Ms. Boyer received a bill for a bone scan from Washington Sibley Memorial Hospital. She learned that the total cost of the scan was $711.50 and that her portion of the bill, the copayment, was $142.30. She paid her portion of the bill. Thirteen months later, Ms. Boyer received a balance due notice from Sibley Hospital for $569.20, the amount the hospital had indicated was  covered by the insurer a year earlier. Then she got a bill from Sibley a few days later for the entire $711. 
   This was now a battle about who was at fault. Of course, the hospital said it was the insurance company; the insurance company said it was the hospital. Nevertheless, Ms. Boyer struggled through this situation. She had already paid her portion, and now she was going to have to pay more than the original cost if she responded to the last bill. 
   Now, 3 years later, after much travail, the insurer has paid their full original amount. In fact, they gave Ms. Boyer a refund for the $142.30 she had paid. 
   This is a daily occurrence. For every one of our constituents, if you ask them, either it has happened to them or it has happened to someone close to them. One of the interesting things about this is, I suspect strongly that the reason Ms. Boyer was successful in her battle with the insurance company was that at the time of her diagnosis she was a lobbyist for the Health Insurance Association of America. She knew a little bit about the way HMOs and insurance companies work. Before that, she was a lawyer for the Internal Revenue Service. 
   Ask yourself, what about the truck driver who is confronted with this dilemma? Ask yourself, what about the single mother with children? When they are confronted with this dilemma, where do they go? What kind of legal expertise can they call upon? The answer is, very little or none at all. As a result, they often do not get the care they need, or they pay what they should not pay, or they end up paying all they have, and many of them find themselves almost in bankruptcy, if not worse. 
   The protections that are built in the Democratic Patients' Bill of Rights will help these people. They will give them access to people who know how to deal with the insurance companies--not unfairly, but objectively. 
   Let me give you another example of how these ombudsman programs have been helpful. 
   The Rafferty family in Sacramento, CA, were able to get their problem resolved after they appealed to the California Health Rights Hotline. The metropolitian Sacramento area has its own hotline to address problems and questions with managed care plans. 
   In September 1998, Lynmarie Rafferty gave birth, by cesarean section, to premature twins, Paige and Hannah. Each only weighed 2 and a half pounds. The girls were admitted to the hospital's neonatal intensive care unit in a very medically fragile condition. The Raffertys had chosen the hospital in part because of its intensive care facilities and its location close to their home. 
   Two weeks later, the Raffertys received a call from their health plan's medical director. He informed them that Hannah and Paige were going to be transferred to another hospital that day--not in a few days, but that same day. He told the Raffertys that if the newborns were not transferred on that day, the plan would not pay their hospital bill. 
   The family was devastated. They had two premature babies in fragile medical condition suddenly being ordered out of the hospital. And if they didn't leave, then the thousands and thousands of dollars in bills that the Raffertys thought were being paid by the insurance company would suddenly be their bills. 
   They also had another young child at home, and the proximity of the new hospital was much further away than the hospital where the twins were currently hospitalized. 
   Well, the Raffertys went to the plan, told them of their concerns, but to no avail. They went to the physician. Finally, they called the California health rights hotline. The hotline reviewed their plan's contract and informed the Raffertys of their rights. Then the Raffertys said to their health insurance plan: We are not going to give consent to moving our daughters. 
   The plan still fought them and said: These babies have to leave. Fortunately, with the help of the hotline, the Raffertys were able to draft an appeal letter outlining the reasons why transferring the newborns would violate their rights. Finally, the health plan backed down and accepted the responsibility for the care of the children, which at that point was over $80,000. 
   Now, can you imagine where a struggling young family, with a child at home and two newborns, were going to get $80,000, if the insurance company had prevailed, if there was no hotline, if there were no advocates? 
   I believe very strongly that this kind of patient protection should be an integral part of the legislation we consider for managed care reform. The Democratic alternative provides those types of protections. It provides for internal reviews and external reviews that are objective, not a situation where the insurance company has picked the individuals who reviewing their own decisions, but truly objective. It also applies the principle that if the insurance company has caused grievous harm, they, just like the doctor, should be liable before a court of law. 
   It also goes a step further and says: Let's see if we can prevent these troubles before they start. Let's create consumer assistance centers. Let's create an ombudsman who can work with individuals and try to resolve their claims long before they reach the stage where it is a matter of life or death or a matter of financial ruin. 
   I believe our greatest responsibility today is to move on to this debate in a meaningful way, to talk about the issues of health care, to debate them because there are points of difference that are principled and we should vigorously discuss and debate them. But we have to get into that debate. The health of America depends upon it. 
   I will mention one other area which I am particularly concerned about. I have spent some time talking about the issue of the appeals process, the procedural protections that we have to build in to any patient protection legislation that moves forward. 
   There is one other area of concern, among many, but one that particularly concerns me. That is that we have to have legislation that is particularly sensitive to the needs of children. The Rafferty example is a good one: Two premature babies who basically are being threatened with eviction from the hospital. We need to be dealing with the issue of children's health care in the managed care system. 
   We have to recognize, and too often we don't, that there is a difference between adults and kids. Kids are different. They are particularly different when it comes to health care. 
   Let me suggest some important differences which argue for special treatment for children within managed care reform legislation. Once again, I believe the Democratic alternative incorporates these special treatments. 
   First, children are developing. This is not an issue that is confronted in the context of adults who are ill. So developmental issues immediately and automatically create differences in the way 
   children must be dealt with. Between birth and young adulthood, children change and grow. They develop intellectually. They develop physically. 
   These developmental issues are seldom part of the equation when it comes to making decisions about managed care because their models deal with adults. Their models deal with very specific adult diseases and adult outcomes. 
   For one reason, they can measure them much better. Many times families are faced with extreme difficulties in getting care from their HMO because the rules that are set for adults don't work for kids. Take, for example, the rule which is common in managed care, that you can only have two sets of crutches in the course of your contract, or year or two. That is fine if you are a fully grown person, if you are an adult. But if you are a developing child, you are going to need different types of crutches, because you are going to get bigger, we hope. The same thing is true with wheelchairs. Children with spina bifida have changes in their bodies and changing needs, much more so than adults. These rules, arbitrary as they may be for adults, are completely inappropriate for children because of this developmental issue. We have to recognize that. 
   The other thing we have to recognize is, symptoms in children which might be dismissed in adults as minor could be the precursors to significant problems down the road that won't develop and be truly obvious for years ahead. That is another reason why children have to have access to pediatric specialists, not general practitioners, who are used to seeing adults. And if you  have some sniffles, you don't feel right, take two aspirins and get some rest, that could mean something much more significant and much more serious in a developing child. 
   There is another issue, too, with respect to children that makes them quite different from the grownup population. They are dependent. One of the major measures of health care outcomes in the United States is independent functioning. Can the person function independently? Can they get up and move about? When you are talking about children, they are, by definition, dependent--dependent on adults; in many cases, they are dependent upon adults to explain their medical problems. It takes their parents or the care givers to explain to the physician what is wrong in many cases. That is a difference that seldom is appreciated in managed care plans because they don't have the kind of pediatric specialists or pediatric primary care providers that are so necessary. 
   The patterns of injury are different between adults and children. The good news is, the children are generally very healthy. But the bad news is, when a child has a serious disease, it is usually a combination of many different conditions, unlike serious adult diseases which are typically a single disease. Again, these complicated, interrelated conditions that threaten development argue for access to pediatric specialists early in the process. That doesn't happen. It doesn't happen enough in managed care plans. 
   The answer is not because managed care executives don't like kids; managed care executives have some sort of animus towards children. It happens because of dollars and cents. If you have a very small pool of sick children, why are you going to go out and make arrangements to have pediatric specialists in your care network? That is a lot of overhead for just a couple of kids. 
   We have a market failure. We have a situation in which the market dictates to these companies to do something which in the aggregate harms greatly the health of the American child. That is why we have to act. 
   Again, this is all part of the Democratic alternative. This is part of what we have to do. In addition, I would add that we need to develop quality measures that actually track children's health, in addition to adult health. We have to go beyond some of the simple things, such as immunization rates. We need to get into more complicated measures and make parents aware of these statistics so they make informed choices about their health plans. 
   Another thing health plans need to begin doing more is looking at children in the context of some of exposures that are unhealthy, but are not directly, traditionally medical; environmental exposures like lead poisoning; community exposures like violence, and the stress and strain of living in difficult circumstances. Our HMOs have to also begin to think about how, then, they can do what we all thought they were going to do originally--emphasize preventive care, particularly with kids, coordinate not just with their own physicians and medical providers in their networks, but with the schools and community-based care centers, all of the institutions that must be allied together to help the children of America. 
   Once again, the legislation that we have introduced--the Democratic Patients' Bill of Rights--does this. I can't think of two more compelling reasons to move to this legislation in a meaningful way than the opportunity to give every family a true voice in their health care through the procedural reforms that we have introduced and to give every child in this country the opportunity to get the best health care they can possibly get. I think we owe it to the people who sent us here. I hope we can find a way to move beyond this deadlock and move to vigorous debate on the Patients' Bill of Rights. If we do that, then we will be serving very well the interests of the American people. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. KENNEDY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent to speak for 10 minutes as if in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I take this opportunity to talk about the Patients' Bill of Rights in one particular area. That is the area of appeals, both internal appeals and external appeals. 
   Both versions of this legislation, both the Republican proposal and the Democratic proposal, purport to have provisions for appeals of denial of service to consumers of health care in HMOs. Looking closely at the proposals, we find that the Republican process is significantly deficient. 
   We will hear discussions about these various proposals, but I will highlight a couple of the areas which suggest the deficiencies that are inherent in the Republican proposal versus the Democratic proposal. 
   First, under the Republican plan, an internal review--one that is being conducted by the HMO itself--that reviewer is restricted from looking at all the evidence in a case. 
   For example, if a patient thought they were not receiving appropriate care, they might go to another physician outside of their network and ask for an opinion. That type of information cannot be used by the internal reviewer to make a judgment about the decision rendered by the HMO. This narrowly restricted access to information prejudices the review process against the patient. It also leads to something I think is evident today and would be even more pronounced in the future, a growing cynicism that the managed care companies simply want to protect the bottom line, not the health of the patient. 
   I strongly suggest the internal review process in the Republican legislation is deficient since it will not allow, essentially, a de novo review of the case by the reviewing authority. 
   The second weakness with respect to the Republican proposal is with regard to external reviews. External reviews are reviews which are conducted by an outside party. Under the Republican plan, a review could only be conducted if there is a claim that some type of medical necessity has been violated, or the proposed treatment is experimental--again, two very narrow grounds. 
   A patient cannot have an external review if the claim is about contractual rights. In the world of HMOs, it is so easy for the HMO to claim: This is not really an issue of medical necessity. It is not an issue even of innovative treatment. This treatment is just not covered under your plan. 
   These contracts are pages and pages of small print. When the average consumer or family tries to figure out what the contract says, they are no match for the reviewing authorities and spokespeople for the HMOs. 
   As a result, there is a very real possibility an aggrieved party will never get an external review. They will be buried in a barrage of verbiage indicating ``it is not covered in the contract'' or it ``doesn't meet our definition of medical necessity.'' I refer to the text provided by my colleague from California where part of the definition of ``medical necessity'' included the low-cost alternative in the provision of services. 
   All of this, in my view, is an invitation to endless argumentation about legalisms at a time when people need a prompt response to a health care crisis in their family. 
   There is another deficiency with respect to the external review provisions. Under the Republican proposal, the HMO actually picks the reviewing authority. Now that just does not sound fair. If it does not sound fair to us, it will certainly not sound fair to the families of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Certainly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I agree completely. The Senator is absolutely right. Both the perception of an unfair, unbalanced procedure, and I would also argue the reality, ultimately, will be such that you are not going to get a fair evaluation of your claim. 
   I cannot conceive of a company--and the HMOs are famous now for their concern for the bottom line--that would go out of its way to retain people who are sensitive to the needs of patients versus the needs of the company and its bottom line. They will pick reviewing authorities who will invariably decide that this expensive procedure, or this inexpensive procedure, is not needed by a patient. 
   What you are doing also is creating a degree of cynicism about the whole process of appeals. As a result, 
   rather than making a sound, objective, external evaluation of the merits of the case with all the evidence and telling the patient, no, this is not necessary for you, or, yes, it is, a huge legal, bureaucratic labyrinth is created, at the end of which you find yourself facing somebody who basically works for the HMO. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. The Democratic legislation tries to create, and I think succeeds in creating, a situation where there is an external review where a party who is not beholden to the HMO, an individual reviewing authority outside of the company will review external appeals. It would be truly independent and there would not be a conflict of interest, and that, I believe, is the appropriate way to proceed. 
   By creating an independent external review procedure, it will, No. 1, strengthen the confidence of consumers that they are getting a fair shake and, No. 2, it will lead to better judgments about the type of health care that should be necessary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-7-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. The Senator is exactly correct. The way the appeals process is drafted in the Republican legislation, a child who has a serious cancer might be offered the services of an oncologist for adults. In the view of the plan, that would be adequate, sufficient for the purposes of the medical necessity. As a result, the parents of the child, who want access to a pediatric oncologist, may not even get the chance to even protest internally, externally, or in any way. 
   That is wrong. Frankly, I have been trying to learn as much as I can about pediatric specialties. I, like so many people, once thought an oncologist is an oncologist is an oncologist like a rose is a rose is a rose. It turns out pediatric oncology is a very specialized part of medicine. 
   I was talking to a specialist recently who pointed out the case of a young child who was discovered with a particular type of cancer and was treated by an adult's oncologist using what is standard procedure for an adult. In fact, using the adult procedure produced additional problems for the child and only further complicated the situation. As a result, the child has to have an additional regime of chemotherapy. All of this could have been avoided, of course, had that child seen a pediatric oncologist immediately. 
   The provisions in this legislation do not give a fair chance to appeal a denial of access to a specialist like the case I have just outlined. They do not give Americans, but particularly children, a fair chance to get good health care. That is what we want to do and should do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-8-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I do agree. I have been listening to Senator FEINSTEIN's very eloquent and thoughtful comments about the need for access to specialists and the need to have a physician make a decision about your health care and not an accountant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-9-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Sister Mary Reilly, an important figure in social progress and education in Rhode Island for the past fifty years. 
   Since joining the Sisters of Mercy in 1948, Sister Mary Reilly's mission has always focused on helping individuals of modest means meet their basic needs and improve themselves through education. Whether in the heart of Providence, or in the classrooms of Honduras and Belize, or in her forthcoming work in New York City, these are the constants of Sister Mary Reilly's career ministry. 
   To be sure there have been many changes for Sister Mary Reilly. Indeed, she recently told the Providence Journal that her life has been filled with beginnings. 
   Born in Providence, she began her career with the Sisters of Mercy as a teacher there, first at St. Mary School and then at St. Mary Academy at Bay View. Later, she was able to fulfill one of her goals by becoming a missionary and teaching in Central America. 
   Returning to Rhode Island in 1970, Sister Mary Reilly began establishing the groundwork for institutions that have become a significant part of Rhode Island's landscape for social improvement. She was among the founders of McAuley House, a soup kitchen serving the homeless in Providence; the Good Friday Walk for Hunger and Homelessness; the COZ (Child Opportunity Zone), an innovative community effort to link schools with critical social service agencies and non-profit organizations; and the Annual Walk for Literacy. Sister Mary Reilly was also among those who began the Washington lobby, NETWORK. 
   However, the endeavor to which Sister Mary Reilly is most closely linked is Dorcas Place, which she helped found nearly 20 years ago with her colleague Deborah Thompson. Dorcas Place began as a literacy center for low-income young women. As Sister Mary Reilly and other leaders at Dorcas Place saw the need to address a greater array of issues in the community, the center grew to include women and men and took on a host of issues including literacy, employment and training, parenting, and advocacy. It has reached out to other organizations from Salve Regina University, with which Dorcas recently joined to create a certificate program for low-income and welfare dependent individuals, to Fleet Bank, to Rhode Island Legal Services, to the Rhode Island Department of Health, and many others. From a small corps of volunteers at first, Dorcas Place has grown to include 65 volunteer tutors and nearly 50 mentors. While all of this is the result of a team effort, Sister Mary Reilly certainly deserves the lion's share of the credit. She has indeed been the inspiration behind this wonderful organization. 
   Given Sister Mary Reilly's role in influencing the climate of social progress in Rhode Island, it was with great sadness that many Rhode Islanders learned of her decision to resign her post as Executive Director of Dorcas Place. She leaves to embark on a year's sabbatical in New York to work with other Sisters of Mercy who are following-up on the historic 1995 United Nations' Beijing Women's Conference. 
   For Sister Mary Reilly, it is another beginning, and we know that she will not be far from Rhode Island or from Dorcas Place. Her legacy of good will and service to others will foster the continuation the work important work at Dorcas Place, and I join all of her colleagues in wishing her well in her newest adventure. We all hope to see her in Rhode Island again before long.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for Senator LEAHY's amendment promoting peaceful self determination for the peoples of East Timor and bringing the attention of the United States to the long and difficult climb of the East Timorese towards democracy. I am pleased to join Senator FEINGOLD as a cosponsor of this amendment which underscores the importance of the historic opportunity which the East Timorese face, and our duty to support them in their struggle for peace and self determination. The upcoming August vote, or consultation, on East Timorese autonomy is crucial, not only for the East Timorese people, but for America and for every nation that supports democracy and stands against the rule of terror and violence which has shaped twenty years of East Timorese history. 
   The past year has witnessed extraordinary progress. The efforts of Portugal, the United Nations, the global community and the East Timorese leaders have been impressive. Combined with the willingness of the Indonesian government, these efforts have at last resulted in a plan for the peaceful and democratic determination of East Timor's political destiny. I would like to recognize all those whose courage and commitment have led us towards the August consultation, a consultation which will allow the East Timorese, at long last, to decide for themselves how they are to be governed. 
   Nevertheless, much remains to be done. As great an achievement as the promised consultation may be, the future is far from certain. East Timor, already troubled by years of bloodshed, has seen even greater escalations in human rights abuses in recent months. Although it has already buried 200,000 people who have died violently since the 1975 Indonesian invasion, East Timor continues to be riven by conflict. Organized campaigns of terror and intimidation have been aimed at East Timorese leaders and journalists who favor autonomy. Some international observers have reported that  East Timorese have been systematically herded into camps in efforts to provide large blocs of pro-Indonesian votes in the August consultation. Militia activity, violence, and destruction continue unabated. 
   If the violence in East Timor is to cease, the militias must be stripped of their weapons and disbanded. International observers will play a critical role, both in the course of the consultation and in the implementation of the results that follow. Only subjecting this process to the harsh light of international scrutiny can we hope to prevent East Timor's violent past from serving as prologue to an equally violent future. Without our active participation and support, the hope of a lasting peace in East Timor is in danger of being lost. 
   Mr. President, this historic opportunity for peace must not be allowed to slip away. The United States has a proud tradition of championing those who seek freedom and democracy across the world. It is my hope that this amendment will encourage the United States to intensify efforts to ensure that the people of East Timor find peace at last. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, as I look at the Republican proposals, they are deficient in many ways. Of particular concern to me is the way this proposal mistreats children. 
   The Democratic proposal, the proposal we would like to not only debate but also to vote on, emphasizes the need to protect the children of America. I hope we all can agree that at the end of this Congress at least we can provide adequate protections in managed care for children. 
   Don't just take my word for it. Take the word of organizations including the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Association of Children's Residential Centers, the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, the Children's Defense Fund, the Child Welfare League of America. All of these organizations support unequivocally the Democratic Patients' Bill of Rights. This is the legislation we know and they know will protect the children of America. 
   There are three key points that are terribly important with respect to the differences between the Republican proposal and the Democratic proposal. 
   First, our legislation will assure access to pediatric specialists. In the world of medicine today, it is not just sufficient to visit an oncologist if you have cancer and you are a child, because pediatric oncology is a particular specialty that is necessary for children who have serious cancers. 
   Second, our legislation provides clearly expedited review procedures if child development is threatened--not just their life but their development. This is a critical issue that is virtually unique to children. This is something we have to protect and ensure. 
   Third, we also have provisions within our legislation that will measure outcomes in terms of children, so that when parents are trying to determine what plan is best for their child, they can actually look at measured results: How well this particular plan did--not with a large population of adults, but particularly with respect to children. 
   The Republican plan has some fuzzy language regarding pediatricians and specialists. 
   Clearly and unequivocally, there is language in the Democratic legislation that guarantees children access to providers who are trained to take care of them, access to pediatric specialists, expedited review procedures in the case of developmental difficulties for children, and also outcome measures that actually take children into consideration. These are critical issues that have to be included in any managed care legislation we pass on the floor of the Senate. 
   What did the American people think about that? I have listed August organizations like the American Academy of Pediatrics in support of this measure. Let me tell Members what the American people think. 
   In February of 1999, a survey by Lake Sosin Snell Perry and Associates and the Tarrance Group--one a Democratic polling firm, the other a Republican polling firm--revealed 86 percent of voters surveyed favored having Congress require health plans to provide children with access to pediatric specialists and hospitals that specialize in treating children. 
   That is an overwhelming example of what the American people are asking: Protect their children, and give them access to pediatric specialists. Let them choose, as mothers and fathers, pediatricians to be primary care providers for their sons and daughters. 
   Not only do the American people demand these provisions, they will also pay for them. Seventy-six percent of the voters surveyed said they would pay for these protections, ``even if it increased health insurance costs for families with children by $100 a year.'' 
   They want these protections. Only the Democratic version gives them these protections. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to support and strengthen America's school libraries. 
   The school library plays a vital role in the education of students. It is where reading skills are reinforced; the laboratory where ideas taught in class are explored and tested; the arena in which children explore new ideas and learn on their own; and a vital bridge to the remarkable and growing resources of the information age. 
   Research shows that well-equipped and well-staffed school libraries are essential to promoting learning and achievement. Indeed, a 1992 study found that students in schools with well-equipped libraries and professional library media specialists perform better on achievement tests for reading comprehension and basic research skills. 
   This finding was echoed in a 1994 U.S. Department of Education report on the impact of school library media centers which noted that the highest achieving students tend to come from schools with strong libraries and library programs. 
   And, a 1993 review of research studies concluded that free voluntary reading is the foundation for good grammar, writing, and reading comprehension abilities. For the average American student, the school library is the single most available source of reading material. 
   Mr. President, with our ever-changing global economy, access to information and the skills to use it are vital to ensuring that young Americans are competitive and informed citizens of the world. That is why the school library is so important in supplementing what is learned in the classroom; promoting better learning, including reading, research, library use, and electronic database skills; and providing the foundation for independent learning that allows students to achieve throughout their educational careers and their lives. 
   While the promise of a well-equipped school library is limitless, and its importance greater than ever, the condition of libraries today does not live up to that potential. As Linda Wood, a school library media specialist from South Kingstown High School in Rhode Island, recently noted during a Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing, school library collections are outdated and sparse. Indeed, schools across the nation are dependent on collections purchased in the mid-1960s under the original Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   As a result, many books in our school libraries predate the landing of manned spacecraft on the moon, the breakup of the Soviet Union, the end of Apartheid, the growth of the Internet, and advances in DNA research. In a rapidly changing world, our students are placed at a major disadvantage if the only scientific, historical, and geographical materials they have access to reflect times long gone by. 
   In sum, school library funding is grossly inadequate to the task of improving and supplementing collections. Library spending per student today is a small fraction of the cost of a new book. Indeed, while the average school library book costs $16, the average spending per student for books is $6.73 in elementary schools; $7.30 in middle schools; and $6.27 in high schools. 
   Consequently, many outdated books that should be removed from shelves cannot be, since there is no money to replace them. One case in point is California which in response to its fourth-graders being ranked second to last among 39 states on last year's National Assessment of Educational Progress has begun an effort to restock school library shelves in order to weed out old and inaccurate books, including those rife with racial stereotypes and those which proclaim ``one day, man might go to the moon''. For a long time, according to a recent Los Angeles Times article, California school librarians could not afford to take such a step because there would be no books left on the shelves. Too few states, however, are taking similar steps to improve school libraries. 
   My home state of Rhode Island is working on an innovative effort to ensure that students gain access to materials not available in their own school libraries. RILINK (the Rhode Island Library Information Network for Kids) gives students and teachers 24-hour Internet access to a statewide catalog of school library holdings, complete with information about the book's status on the shelf. RILINK also allows for on-line request of materials via interlibrary loan, with rapid delivery through a statewide courier system, and provides links from book information records to related Internet research sites, allowing a single book request to serve as a point of departure for a galaxy of information sources. 
   Unfortunately, such innovations, which could benefit schoolchildren across the nation, cannot be expanded without adequate library funding. Indeed, the only federal funding that is currently available to school libraries is the Title VI block grant, which allows expenditure for school library and  instructional materials as one of seven choices for local uses of funds. This program is slated for elimination under the Administration's fiscal year 2000 budget and Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization proposal. 
   Mr. President, well-trained school library media specialists are also essential to helping students unlock their potential. These individuals are at the heart of guiding students in their work, providing research training, maintaining and developing collections, and ensuring that a library fulfills its potential. In addition, they have the skills to guide students in the use of the broad variety of advanced technological education resources now available. 
   Unfortunately, only 68% of schools have state certified library media specialists, according to Department of Education figures, and, on average, there is only one specialist for every 591 students. This shortage means that many school libraries are staffed by volunteers and are open only a few days a week. 
   Mr. President, the bipartisan bill I am introducing today, along with Senators COCHRAN, SARBANES, WELLSTONE, KENNEDY, DASCHLE, REID, and MURRAY, would restore the funding that is critical to improving school libraries. The Elementary And Secondary School Library Media Resources, Training, And Advanced Technology Act directs funding to schools with the greatest need and would ensure that students have access to the informational tools they need to learn and achieve at the highest levels by providing funds to update library media resources, such as books and advanced technology, train school library media specialists, facilitate resource-sharing among school libraries, and improve collaboration between school library media specialists and teachers. 
   The bill also establishes the School Library Access Program to provide students with access to school libraries during non-school hours, including before and after school, weekends, and summers. 
   Providing access to the most up-to-date school library collections is an essential part of increasing student achievement, improving literacy skills, fostering a love of reading, and helping students become lifelong learners. The Elementary and Secondary School Library Media Resources, Training, and Advanced Technology Act, which is strongly supported by the American Library Association, will help accomplish these essential goals. I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this important legislation and work for its inclusion in the upcoming reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today also to join my colleague from Illinois and to speak about an issue which is of great concern to the American people. That is the Patients' Bill of Rights. 
   As is my colleague from Illinois, I am terribly frustrated. We are in the third week of June. Yet we have not been able to get this legislation to the floor for debate. Senator DORGAN today tried to do that, but he was frustrated. 
   As Members go around this great country--and I will speak from my experience in Rhode Island--we talk to our constituents and there is a sense we have made progress on economic issues. The economy is doing better. People feel better about their jobs and about the future. 
   If you speak with them for any length of time and ask them what really bothers them, they will quickly state they are afraid of getting sick.  They are afraid, as a breadwinner, of becoming sick and not being able to get the care they need, even though they are in an insurance program. And they are particularly concerned about the health of their children. 
   They have heard the stories and read the newspaper articles, as the Senator from Illinois pointed out, about the numerous people who have been paying for insurance or have been the beneficiaries of employer-paid-for insurance. They have become ill, gone to their HMO thinking that at least they had insurance coverage, and they discovered they did not have it. They did not have it when it counted. They did not have it when they needed it, when they were ill or their children were ill. 
   That is why we are advocating so strenuously bringing the Patients' Bill of Rights to the floor for debate. 
   In March, I participated in the deliberations in the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee. We voted out a bill on partisan lines. It is not the bill I prefer. It is a bill that is deficient in many respects. However, it is the basis of debate, and it is the basis of the debate we should be having today on the floor of this Senate. 
   There are two versions of this legislation. There is a Republican proposal and there is a Democratic proposal which my colleague from Illinois was talking about so eloquently. There are many differences. One of the most startling differences is that the Republican proposal covers a very small fraction of Americans. Not all Americans that have private health insurance are covered by HMOs. Under the Republican bill, a lucky 48 million Americans would have some protections. 
   Ask yourself, if these protections are appropriate for 48 million Americans, why aren't they appropriate for every American who is part of the managed care health plan? I think the answer is quite clear: The Republican version is more sham than substance; more window dressing than a valiant, serious attempt to address the concerns of every American. 
   That is unfortunate. Why should there be one person who is lucky enough to fall within a narrow category that is covered by the Republican plan--that person having access to quality care, that person having certain appeal rights--yet his neighbor, who is also covered by an HMO plan but one that is funded slightly differently is without these protections? There is absolutely no logic to this. The Democratic proposal would cover all Americans who are in these private HMO plans. It would do so in a way that ensures people are getting what they paid for. 
   That is the other irony in this whole debate. We are not talking about a program which, through the generosity of the government or the generosity of someone else, people are getting some health care from insurance companies and they are deciding they shouldn't get X or they shouldn't get Y. These health insurance companies are being paid significant premiums by individuals and their employers for coverage. Yet the coverage is not being provided in so many cases. 
   I am particularly concerned that this narrow scope is extremely detrimental to the children of this country. 
   Only about a third of the children in these managed health care plans would be protected by the Republican program. I ask, very sincerely, why can't we at least cover every child in America? Is that too much to ask? I think not. I believe every American would recognize the need to do that. 
   Now, managed care has provided benefits for children in this country. Their emphasis on preventive care, their emphasis on immunizations are all very good. But, frankly, I have a distinct impression a lot of what they are calling coverage for kids amounts to taking the premiums but not providing the service. 
   I had the occasion to meet with a physician from California, from the University of California at Los Angeles, who has a very innovative program. In this program, he goes from school to school with a van to cover children who have asthma. It is very effective because not only does he diagnose the children and then treat them and then follow them up, which is critical, but he also looks at the statistics. 
   He was able to essentially categorize all his patients into three groups: Those with private HMO insurance, those with California Medicaid insurance for low-income children, and those children without any coverage at all. What was startling to me was that when he looked at these different populations, he found essentially these kids got the same coverage, regardless of their category of insurance. All they really got was an emergency room visit, and when they saw the doctor because they had a terrible asthma episode, they were given, in the emergency room, a little paper bag with an inhaler and a few bits of medicine and then they were sent home--those without insurance, those with Medicaid insurance, and those in managed care plans for which an employer was paying a great deal of money. 
   That just goes to show we really have to do a great deal more to ensure that children get the benefit of the health insurance plan they are supposed to be part of. Then we have to ensure that all of our citizens who participate in these plans get fair and adequate coverage. That is at the heart of the Democratic Patients' Bill of Rights, ensuring that all of our citizens who are in these managed care plans get access to quality coverage at affordable prices. 
   I would like, for a moment, to concentrate on children in these plans, because, as I said before, this is a special concern of mine. I think, at a minimum, we can emerge from this Congress with legislation that guarantees every child in America access to quality health care, provisions in their managed care plans that make sure children are treated and treated well. 
   Senator DURBIN was talking about a parent whose child had a rare cancer. The HMO said: Yes, your daughter is quite ill, perhaps terminally ill. We will send her for treatments, not to a pediatric oncologist or a pediatric surgeon, someone who specializes not only in cancer but pediatric cancers, we are just going to send her to a surgeon. Those parents had to pay out of their own pocket, presumably, to get the right kind of care for their child. 
   In the Democratic bill, there would be a guarantee that a child would have access to a pediatric specialist and pediatric services, because children are not just small adults. They have specialized health care needs that are very different from those of adults. But too often in managed care plans throughout this country they are simply treated as small adults, if they are treated in particular at all. 
   There are some other things we have to have for children in these plans, particularly for children. We have to have expedited review, not only if their life is in jeopardy but also their development because this is another difference between an adult and a child. Adults are usually fully developed. Children are not. There are conditions which might not be life threatening but certainly threaten their development, both physical and intellectual. In those situations there have to be expedited appeals. Then we have to have the continuity of care for chronically ill or terminally ill children. 
   We also have to recognize the information parents get when they make a choice about their health care plans should include specific information about how that plan treats children. Too often such information does not exist. Too often it is all done in terms of adult outcomes, adult studies. Unless parents have this information, sometimes the only time they realize how well their child is covered is when they discover their child is not covered well at all because he or she is deathly ill and is not getting the kind of care he or she needs or deserves. 
   I am encouraged because Senator BOND has introduced a bill entitled ``Healthy Kids 2000,'' which includes access to pediatric specialists similar to that in my legislation. Also, Senator CHAFEE has introduced a managed care bill, which also talks about access to pediatric specialists. So I hope there is an emerging consensus across the aisle that we have to do more for children in managed care. 
   But let me say again, the Democratic bill strongly and emphatically defines the special rights of children in managed care. We have actually taken surveys and asked the American people, regarding access to care for children, what do they want; what do they demand. They want high-quality care. They want access to specialists. They want to be able to protect the development of children. They want to have  expedited reviews when children's development or lives are threatened. And they are willing to pay for these provisions. What we found in too many managed care plans is that these types of protections just do not exist. 
   In 1992, there was a study done of pediatricians. They found there were significant barriers to pediatric referrals in the managed care system, that pediatricians in the managed care system often encounter barriers to referring their patients to pediatric specialists. Of these pediatricians who were surveyed, 35 percent believed their patient's health was compromised because of the denial of access to pediatric specialists. This is a real problem, and it is a problem the Democratic proposal resolves. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. As I mentioned, these provisions that would help protect children are provisions which the American people want and the American people will pay for. They are provisions that are at the heart of the Democratic Patients' Bill of Rights. I think it is time to move. It is time to move forward on a debate about this critical issue, an issue that affects every family in this country. It is an issue that is critical to their well-being. It is an issue, frankly, that they sent us here to work on, to debate and to vote on. Difficult votes they may be, but they sent us here to take these votes. 
   So I urge my colleagues to join together to begin the debate, to reach a conclusion, and to do something the American people want us to do--give them the opportunity to protect their health and the health of their families. 
   I yield the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. SCHUMER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased today to join my colleague from New Jersey, Senator TORRICELLI, to discuss the issue of childhood lead poisoning and discuss the legislation we introduced. 
   Over the last 20 years, the United States has made significant progress in reducing lead exposure, particularly among our children. We have enacted bans on lead-based paint, lead solder in food cans, and the deleading of gasoline. As a result, blood lead levels in the United States have decreased by 80 percent. That is good news. 
   However, what is not good news is the fact that there are an estimated  nearly 1 million preschoolers who have excessive lead in their blood, making lead poisoning one of the leading childhood environmental diseases, if not the most significant environmental disease that affects children today. 
   Today, lead-based paint in housing is the major source of this exposure to our children. It has been estimated that approximately half of America's housing stock, roughly 64 million units, contain some lead-based paint. Twenty million of these homes contain lead-based paint in a hazardous condition--paint which is peeling, cracked, or chipped. 
   Children typically get exposed to this, and young children particularly, while playing on floors that have minute particles of lead, from opening and closing windows, particularly old windows, because of the paint in the runners which crack when the window is opened or closed. Thousands of particles of lead are set off in the atmosphere, and children ingest these particles. 
   Children also ingest lead in backyards in older neighborhoods where cars were worked on 20 years before but in 
   the ground there are still significant quantities of lead. 
   This is particularly a problem in my home State of Rhode Island, because we have a rather old housing stock; 43.7 percent of our houses and homes were built before 1950 when lead paint was ubiquitous; it was used everywhere. HUD estimates that 80 percent of pre-1950 homes used lead paint. There are only five States that have a higher percentage of older homes--those built before 1950--than Rhode Island. In Rhode Island this is a significant problem. 
   Nationally we have found that 1 in 11 children has elevated blood levels. In Rhode Island it is one in five. Nationally this is still a problem. This is not just an issue that pertains to the Northeast or to some parts of the country. It cuts across every sector of this great Nation. 
   Another example from the Rhode Island experience: In 1998, 15,000 Rhode Island children entering kindergarten had their blood levels screened; 3,000 of these children had elevated lead in their blood systems. That is an unacceptable percentage. We would like to see zero elevated lead levels but certainly not 3,000 out of 15,000. 
   The impact is unfairly borne by minority children, low-income children. African American children are five times more likely than white children to contact lead poisoning. In Rhode Island, 14 percent of white children screened in 1998 had elevated lead levels, 36 percent of African American children, and 29 percent of Hispanic children. This is an environmental disease that is correlated highly with low income. Poor housing unduly affects minority children throughout the country. 
   We also know that exposure to lead leads to health problems for children. It also has a profound impact on their educational development, because lead will attack the central nervous system and upset cognitive functions. It is a pernicious disease which will lead to impairment of educational ability and intellectual ability. 
   One of the ironies of our program is that we spend very little relative to lead problems, but we are spending millions and millions and millions on special education. In fact, there is not one of my colleagues who has not heard his or her local school superintendent or the Governor say: We have to support special education; we have to reduce these costs. We can if we have a health care system that reacts and screens for lead in children. 
   These lead-affected children are more likely, because of educational complications, to drop out of school. In fact, it has been estimated that they are seven times more likely to drop out of school if they have elevated blood lead levels. We continue to pay for special education through dropouts, through young people who do not have the skills to participate fully in our economy. 
   It is our responsibility to do something. As my colleague, Senator TORRICELLI, mentioned, we have in the past instructed all the Federal health care programs to screen children and to treat children, but we have not been able to measure up to the task we have given them. We have not been able to effectively screen all the children. Certainly we haven't been able to treat all these children. 
   We do have solutions: First, we have to make parents more aware, and also we have to insist upon comprehensive screening and treatment for children who are at risk. 
   In January 1999, the General Accounting Office reported 
   that children in federally funded health care programs such as Medicaid, WIC programs, and the Health Centers Program are five times more likely to have elevated blood levels than children who are not in these programs. The report also found--this is substantiated by what Senator TORRICELLI said and underscores the need for action now--that despite longstanding Federal requirements over 20 years, two-thirds of the children in these programs, more than 400,000, have never been screened at all, even though it is our policy that they all should be screened--400,000 children. 
   Our legislation, the Children's Lead Safe Act, will ensure that all preschool children who are enrolled in Federal health care programs who are most at risk for lead poisoning are screened and receive appropriate followup care. We know that early detection of lead exposure is critical to the success and the health of that child. 
   We also know that unless you screen the child, you will not know if that child requires extensive follow-on care. If we do the screening, as for years we have said we must, we will go a long way toward taking the first step in reducing this problem, finding out who is exposed, and getting those children into appropriate care. 
   We want to ensure there are clear and consistent standards for the screening, that we don't have a hodgepodge of different standards, that we have a program that is sensitive to the latest scientific information. 
   In addition to comprehensive screening, we are also going to insist on clear and consistent standards that will be applied by every health care provider who is screening these children. 
   Another aspect of the legislation is to have a management system in place that follows these children. 
   As an aside, I had an interesting conversation just a few weeks ago with a physician from Los Angeles who is an expert in asthma, which is another environmental childhood disease of significance. He has created a special program with a mobile laboratory which goes to each school. One of the key factors for the success of his program is that not only does he treat the child, but there is an elaborate information system to follow the course of that child. In fact, what he found is that without this elaborate followup, this information system that can monitor the results and the progress of children, initial treatment is seldom effective. 
   If we begin to insist upon comprehensive screening, as we have said we wanted for 20 years, if we go ahead and require that there be universal screening standards that are applied everywhere, if we have a system of information that will follow these children and ensure that they get the care, and ultimately we provide the resources for the care, we can go a long, long way to do what we have wanted to do for decades, 
   to ensure that every child in America is not exposed to lead and, if they are, they are treated properly and effectively. 
   If we do these things, the payoff is going to be dramatic. We are going to have healthier children. We are going to have children who are more able and willing to learn. We will, I hope, reduce the dropout rate because, I remind my colleagues again, a child with elevated lead blood levels is seven times more likely to drop out. 
   In sum, we are going to be able to spare children from a disease which is entirely avoidable. That is why we are so enthusiastic about the legislation we are proposing. Both Senator TORRICELLI and I believe this is a sensible, efficient way to do what we all want to do. We also believe in the long run--and I know this is said about so much legislation, but this certainly must be the case--this will be saving not only the children but will be saving dollars in special education and in dropout prevention. 
   In many ways we are paying right now for a problem that not only could be addressed but effectively resolved. So I encourage all my colleagues to  join us to ensure our legislation becomes law and that an unnecessary disease affecting children, the No. 1 environmental disease affecting children in this country, can be eradicated and will go the way of many other childhood diseases because we took action. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Ms. COLLINS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss S. 96, the McCain bill concerning Y2K litigation. It is unfortunate that this bill has, to some extent, been utilized by those on both extremes of the tort reform debate: with proponents arguing that opposition to the bill reflects contempt for our economy and a few opponents accusing the bill's supporters of contempt for consumers' rights. The truth, as usual, is somewhere in between these two poles. 
   As our economy evolves, becoming national and international in scope, situations will arise that demand procedural and substantive changes to our legal system. Moderate, balanced tort reform is an issue on which I have worked for some years. I approach each issue with the same question: can our legal system be made more efficient while continuing to provide adequate, just protections to consumers? This approach has led me to support reforms which have been validated by the test of time. 
   Mr. President, in 1994, I supported one of the first tort reform measures to pass Congress, the Aviation Revitalization Act of 1994. At that time small plane manufacturers had been almost extinguished by costly litigation. This narrowly-tailored legislation limited the period, to eighteen years, in which manufactures could be sued for design or manufacturing defects. In the six  years since enactment, the industry has reemerged to create thousands of new jobs while providing consumers with safe products. 
   In 1995, I sought to apply this same principle to all durable goods, some of which remain in the workplace for forty, fifty, sixty years or more. Tool and machine manufacturers in Rhode Island and the nation were saddled with costs stemming from litigation over products they made a half century ago, some of which had been modified by others. As a result, I supported tort reform for durable goods which limited the statute of repose, reasonably capped punitive damages, and implemented proportionate liability to de minimis tortfeasors. In an effort to further the reform effort, I voted for this bill even though I was concerned that its punitive damage caps and proportionate liability sections were too broad. My support for the bill included a vote to override President Clinton's veto. 
   My concerns about this bill were borne out by the fact that the veto override was not successful. Proponents of tort reform allowed their view of perfection to become an enemy of good, sensible reform. Indeed, their stubbornness continues to frustrate progress to this day. 
   Just last year, a compromise tort reform bill negotiated by Senator ROCKEFELLER between the Clinton Administration and members of the business community was rejected by some who wanted only sweeping changes to current tort law. I am afraid that some have brought this same sentiment to the Y2K issue. 
   In addition to addressing the products liability reform issue in 1995, I was also approached by members of the securities industry seeking to amend litigation rules pertaining to securities law. The industry wished to combat frivolous litigation. Indeed, it was obvious that some class action suits were being filed after a precipitous drop in the value of a corporation's stock, without evidence of fraud. Such lawsuits frequently inflict substantial legal costs upon corporations, harming both the business and its shareholders. This sort of activity benefitted no one but the attorneys who brought the cases. 
   As a result, I supported both procedural changes and requirements that specific examples of fraud be listed in a lawsuit as embodied in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Again, my support for this legislation required my vote to override a veto. This time, that override was successful. In my view, that success was due to the moderate, balanced approach of the bill. 
   In practice, the legislation successfully ended frivolous lawsuits in federal courts such that I worked with colleagues and the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission to implement the same rules at the state level. This effort resulted in the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998. Again, this bill only received Presidential support after an attempt to inject overly broad provisions into the bill were defeated. Courts are now applying this standard in a manner that balances the interest we all have in ensuring consumer protection, while also deterring nonmeritorious law suits. 
   I think the record is clear. When Congress addresses identifiable inequalities or inefficiencies in our legal system, progress can be made. However, when legislation focuses on broader, philosophical debates, directly pitting the interests of consumers against manufactures, consensus cannot be reached. It is my hope that the Senate will keep this lesson in mind when the Y2K legislation goes to conference. 
   As the work of the Senate's Y2K Committee and the President's Council on the Year 2000 Conversion have shown, the millennium bug will cause disruptions. These disruptions will inflict costs on individuals and businesses. The question is: how will we adjudicate who will bear the burden of these costs? 
   Thus far, as demonstrated by a recent report by the Congressional Research Service, there have been only 48 Y2K related lawsuits filed. Recently, the Gartner Group, a consulting firm specializing in Y2K redress, reported that a quarter of all Y2K failures have already occurred. Given the paucity of Y2K lawsuits today, one could question whether the dire predictions of billions of dollars in Y2K litigation is overestimated. At the very least, it is 
   certain that the current 48 suits have not provided much in the way of proof concerning the inequities in our legal system that will allow attorneys to compound and exacerbate the costs associated with the Y2K problem. 
   Some of these 48 lawsuits are class actions against inexpensive software manufactured several years ago. The merit of such suits is dubious, given that no harm has yet occurred and the ``reasonableness'' of a consumer's expectation that $30 software would last several years and withstand the millennium bug. 
   These 48 lawsuits also contain examples, however, of companies attempting to improperly profit from their own Y2K unpreparedness. For example, one software company sold a product to small business men and women for $13,000 in 1996 with implied warrantees for proper use for a decade. A year later the company sent its customers notice that the software was not Y2K compatible. The software, would, therefore, not work in two years. The company offered its customers a $25,000 ``upgrade'' which would ensure that the software would work properly for half the time it was warranted. Needless to say, a free fix was quickly offered by this software manufacturer once a class action lawsuit was filed. 
   The question the Senate must address in this legislation is what changes in our legal system will encourage everyone to address Y2K problems before they strike while allowing defrauded consumers continued opportunity to obtain redress. Indeed, the greatest danger would seem to be that this legislation unintentionally rewards bad faith companies that fail to address Y2K problems. Again, according to the Gartner Group, some $600 billion will be spent by the end of the year in trying to find, patch, and test computer systems at risk of fault. Bad faith companies that have not taken these responsible steps should not be rewarded. 
   I supported legislation put forward by Senators KERRY, ROBB, BREAUX, REID and Leader DASCHLE which encourages redress not litigation, deters frivolous lawsuits, provides good-faith actors with additional protections if they are sued, and allows individual consumers the protections they are afforded under current law. Specifically, the amendment requires that plaintiffs provide defendants with notice of a lawsuit and time for the defendant to respond with proposed redress to the problem. Additionally, plaintiffs would have to cite with specificity the material defect of their product as well as the damages incurred. Class action lawsuits are limited to those involving material harm. Current redress of Y2K problems is encouraged by the provision of the amendment which requires immediate mitigation and limits damages for those who fail in this regard. The amendment provides commercial transactions with the benefit of their express contract, while omitting consumers, who do not have the economic bargaining power or legal departments of large corporations, from the scope of the legislation. The amendment also discourages plaintiffs from simply suing the defendant with the ``deepest pockets'' by providing proportionate liability for companies that have acted responsibly in addressing Y2K problems in their products. 
   On balance, the Kerry/Daschle amendment is a fair method of addressing identifiable problems in our litigation system as they relate to potential Y2K litigation. 
   I must also acknowledge that the McCain legislation has markedly improved from its original form due in no small part to the efforts of Senator DODD. As first introduced, the bill appeared to be a wish-list for those who have attempted over the past decades, without success, to completely overhaul our litigation system. S. 96, however, continues to contain provisions that simply appear to transfer Y2K costs from defendants to plaintiffs without equitable cause. The bill provides protections to plaintiffs not afforded defendants, caps punitive damages for bad faith actors, limits joint and several liability for bad faith businesses, prohibits states like Rhode Island from awarding non-economic damages even in instances of fraud, federalizes all class action lawsuits, and fails  to distinguish between consumers and large corporations. 
   Perhaps just as importantly as its substantive problems, the Clinton Administration has threatened a veto of S. 96. With six months until the end of the year, we do not have two, three, or four months to negotiate compromises. 
   It is my hope that those of us who are truly in support of reforming the current system will prevail in softening some of S. 96's provisions to arrive at legislation that the Administration can and will support. While this will not result in legislation that organizations can use to fuel their drive to overhaul the entire tort system, it will allow us to mitigate Y2K litigation costs while protecting those who have been wronged. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to join a bipartisan chorus of Senators who have requested we take up action on Senate bill S. 331, the Work Incentives Improvement Act. 
   As my colleagues know, this legislation would remove a significant barrier that individuals with disabilities face when they are trying to return to the workforce. The significant barrier is continued access to health care if they leave SSDI or SSI programs. Currently, individuals with disabilities who are eligible for Social Security disability insurance, SSDI, or supplemental security income, SSI, face the dilemma of losing their Medicare and Medicaid health benefits simply because they return to work. 
   This is regrettable. According to surveys, about three-quarters of individuals with disabilities in the United States who enroll in SSI or SSDI want to work. Sadly, less than one-half of 1 percent are actually able to make the transition because--this is a major reason--they are afraid once they lose their health care they will be unable to support themselves. Whatever they earn by working they lose by forfeiting their health care. 
   We can correct this situation by simply extending eligibility to Medicare and Medicaid for these individuals. We can provide them a helping hand to move from unemployment to contributing to our economy and to our society. 
   With the Americans With Disabilities Act, we passed legislation to combat discrimination and remove physical barriers from the workplace. Now we have a chance to lift a health care roadblock which is stopping many people from moving from a place of unemployment to one in which they are fully participating in our economy. 
   In my home State of Rhode Island, there are more than 40,000 individuals with disabilities who are eligible for SSI or SSDI. These individuals could benefit immediately from this work incentives bill. Across the country, there are about 9.5 million people who are similarly situated who could benefit from this legislation. 
   In addition to the simple argument about fairness and giving everyone the chance to fully use their talents to benefit not only themselves but their community, there is another compelling reason. We are all familiar with the solvency crisis with respect to Social Security but what is less familiar is that with respect to our disability insurance fund--which is part of Social Security--there is also a crisis. Indeed, while the old age and survivors portion of Social Security will be able to pay full benefits until the year 2036, the disability insurance portion becomes insolvent 16 years earlier, in 2020. 
   If we help disabled workers return to the workforce, we will, in effect, also be reducing the cash payments out of this disability insurance fund which will give it longer solvency, which will be a way to address a problem that is lurking just over the horizon in the year 2020. 
   For economic reasons, as well as our commitment to the basic ideal of allowing Americans to use all of their talents, this legislation makes a great deal of sense. 
   Now, we have seen this legislation proposed under the able leadership of Senator JEFFORDS and Senator KENNEDY. This Work Incentives Improvement Act was nearly adopted at the end of last Congress because of their effort. I was a very proud cosponsor of that version. This year, Senators ROTH and MOYNIHAN have also stepped up to take major leadership roles. Indeed, we have 
   more than 70 cosponsors. This is a piece of legislation that is bipartisan, with strong support in both caucuses. Because of this support, because of the efforts of the leadership of Senator ROTH and Senator MOYNIHAN, this bill passed the Finance Committee on March 4, 1999, but we have been waiting for several months to bring it to the floor, to get it passed, and to give disabled Americans a chance at better employment. 
   In March, we were able to take another bill with bipartisan support, the Ed-Flex bill, and work through the problems. The reason we were able to do that was we decided to act, we decided not to let legislation be bottled up, but to move it to this floor, and from this floor to the President for his signature. 
   We have today with respect to this disability legislation twice the inherent support in terms of numbers of Senators, and it also has grassroots support with more than 100 groups endorsing this bill. This support runs the gamut from advocacy groups for disabled Americans all the way to the insurance industry. With this type of support, both within this Chamber and across the country, we should be able to move this just as we moved the Ed-Flex legislation a few months ago. 
   Also, I was pleased to note that in a May 28 edition of the Washington Post,  the majority leader indicated he was satisfied with the status of this bill and ready to move to the floor. It is my hope we can adopt this legislation, that we can bring it here, that we can debate it, and we can move it forward. If we do so, we will be providing an opportunity for disabled Americans all across this country to use their talents for their own benefit and to contribute to the communities and to this Nation. That, I think, is the essence of why we are here--for wise legislative policies that allow Americans to use their talents to benefit themselves and this country. 
   I hope we adopt this very quickly. That means, of course, we schedule this legislation; that we will, in fact, bring to the floor the Work Incentives Improvement Act for a vote. If we do so, we will be doing the work we were sent here to do by our constituents. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, for the first time since the America's Cup left Newport for Fremantle in 1983, Rhode Island is home to a championship trophy. With a 5-1 victory over the Rochester Americans last night, the Providence Bruins won the esteemed Calder Cup as the 1999 Champions of the American Hockey League. The P-Bruins have won the hearts of sports fans in Rhode Island since professional hockey returned to the state in 1992 after a 16-year hiatus. 
   But this victory was much deserved for a team that truly turned itself around. In winning the Calder Cup, the 1999 Providence Bruins became one of  only four teams in AHL history to have gone from last place to first in one season. Under the able leadership of Coach Peter Laviolette and assistant Bill Armstrong, the Providence Bruins amassed a 56-20-4 record--tops during the regular season--then ran off a perfect 10-0 record at home in the playoffs. In winning the Calder Cup, this Bruins team can rightly boast that they are among the best in the history of the league. 
   While this championship was very much the team's victory, a special acknowledgment belongs to Peter Ferraro, who, as the Providence Bruins' leading scorer in the playoffs with nine goals, won the Most Valuable Player honor for the 1999 series. The Providence Bruins' determination and great Championship victory exemplify the dedication of the entire team, and their efforts have been appreciated by the people of Rhode Island, who have flocked to their games throughout the season. All of Rhode Island takes justifiable pride in the Providence Bruins' victory, and we wish them continued success as they strive to repeat as winners of the Calder Cup next year.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am here today to join my colleagues, Senator TORRICELLI and Senator BOXER and others, who are pointing out that America has recently been both shocked and, we hope, awakened to the danger of gun violence throughout our land and particularly the gun violence that envelops our children. 
   A few weeks ago, last month, we in this Senate began to recognize that the people of the United States want reasonable gun control policies. They want these policies to protect themselves and particularly to protect their children. During consideration of the juvenile justice bill, we made some progress by passing a ban on the juvenile possession of semiautomatic assault weapons and a ban on the importation of high-capacity ammunition clips. We saw Republicans join all Democrats in voting to require that child safety devices be sold with all handguns. Finally, with a historic, tie-breaking vote by the Vice President, we passed the Lautenberg amendment to firmly close the gun show and pawnshop loophole by requiring background checks on all sales and allowing law enforcement up to 72 hours to conduct these background checks, as currently permitted by the Brady law. 
   These are the kinds of measures that Democrats in Congress have been advocating for years. It is unfortunate that it took the Littleton tragedy to bring our colleagues in the majority around to our way of thinking. We welcome even these small steps in the right direction. But these are, indeed, small steps, and we need to do much more. We should reinstate the Brady waiting period, which expired last November, to provide a 
   cooling off period before the purchase of a handgun. My colleague from New Jersey said it so well: Too often crimes with handguns are crimes of rage and passion. A cooling off period might insulate the acquisition of the gun from the crime of passion or rage. Even if we do perfect the instant check, this waiting period will still play a very valuable role in ensuring that handguns are not the source of violence and death in our society. We should also pass a child access prevention law to hold adults responsible if they allow a child to gain access to a firearm and that child uses the firearm to harm another.  
   These are the types of protections that are, indeed, necessary. 
   In addition, we should completely close the Internet gun sales loophole, something the Senate failed to do last month when we were considering the juvenile justice bill. We all know the increasing power of the Internet to sell goods and services. Whatever is happening now in the distribution of firearms through the Internet is merely a glimpse and a foreshadowing of what will happen in the months and years ahead. We should act now, promptly, so we can establish sensible rules with respect to the Internet sale of firearms. 
   I also believe that we should apply to guns the same consumer product regulations which we apply to virtually every other product in this country. Again, the Senator from New Jersey was very eloquent when he described the paradox, the unexplainable paradox, the situation in which we regulate toy guns but we cannot by law, in any way, shape or form, regulate real guns. If toy guns, teddy bears, lawn mowers, and hair dryers are all subject to regulation to ensure they include features to minimize the dangers to children, why not firearms? 
   I have introduced legislation to allow the Consumer Product Safety Commission to regulate firearms to protect children and adults against unreasonable risk of injury. I know my friend and colleague from New Jersey has introduced a bill to allow the Treasury Department to regulate firearms. Whichever agency ultimately has oversight, the important thing is that guns should no longer be the only consumer product exempt from even the most basic safety regulations. 
   Finally, I believe that gun dealers should be held responsible if they violate Federal law by selling a firearm to a minor, a convicted felon, or others prohibited from buying firearms. 
   Currently, there are over 104,000 federally licensed firearms dealers in the United States. While most of these dealers are responsible small business people, recent tracing of crime guns by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms has found substantial evidence that some dealers are selling guns to juveniles and convicted felons. This direct diversion of weapons from retail to illegal markets is taking place both through off-the-book sales by corrupt dealers and through so-called straw purchases, when an ineligible buyer has a friend 
   or relative buy a firearm for him or her. 
   Indeed, just this week, my colleague, Senator SCHUMER, from New York released a study of Federal firearms data that reveals a stunning number of crime guns being sold by a very, very small proportion of the Nation's gun dealers. According to data supplied by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, just 1 percent of this country's gun dealers sold nearly half of the guns used in crime last year. The statistics suggest we must move aggressively against these dealers who are flouting the laws and who are disregarding public safety. 
   To remedy this situation, I have introduced S. 1101, the Gun Dealer Responsibility Act, which would provide a statutory cause of action for victims of gun violence against dealers whose illegal sale of a gun directly contributes to the victim's injury. I believe this legislation will make unscrupulous gun dealers think twice about to whom they will sell a weapon, particularly if they intend to sell it to minors, convicted felons or any other ineligible buyer, either directly or through straw purchases. 
   Anyone who honestly considers the tragic events in Littleton 1 month ago and the 13 children who die from gun violence each day in this country must concede that our young people have far too easy and unlimited access to guns. It is a shameful commentary that in this country today, in 1999, for too many children it is easier to get a gun than it is to get counseling. We have to work on both fronts--improving our schools and access to mental health services and counseling and support--but we also have to close the loopholes which make it easy for youngsters to get guns. Last year, 6,000 American students were expelled from elementary or high school for bringing a gun into the school building. That, too, is an indication that we have to work to ensure that children do not have access to firearms. 
   We must do more than just keeping the guns away, but that is something we have to do right now in a comprehensive and coherent way. 
   The measures I have suggested and the measures that my colleague from New Jersey suggested are sensible parts of a comprehensive strategy to do what every American wants done: to keep weapons out of the hands of young children who may use them to harm themselves or harm others. 
   I hope that having been awakened by the tragedy in Littleton, we are ready to move progressively and aggressively to remedy this situation in the Senate. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, as a preliminary matter, I ask unanimous consent that Herb Cupo, a fellow in Senator ROBB's office, and that Sheila Jazayeri and Erin Barry of Senator JOHNSON's staff be granted floor privileges during the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today in support of S. 1059, the fiscal year 2000 defense authorization bill. As a new member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I would like to thank Chairman WARNER and Ranking Member LEVIN for their leadership on this legislation and, also, the subcommittee chairmen and ranking members who have been very helpful. The staff of the committee has also given us able support and assistance throughout this process. 
   This bill represents a significant increase in funding for national defense, $288.8 billion. This is an $8.3 billion increase over the request of the Administration. I must admit that although I recognize the need for increasing defense spending, this is a substantial increase that puts tremendous pressure on other priorities of the nation. Nevertheless, I think at this time in our history it is important to reinvest in our military forces to give them the support they need to do the very critical job they perform every day to defend the United States. 
   I am also pleased that, given this increase, the committee has very wisely allocated dollars to needs of the services that are paramount. We have been able, for example, to increase research and development by $1.5 billion. In an increasingly technological world, we have to continue to invest in research and development if our military forces are going to have the technology, equipment and the sophisticated new weapons systems that they need to be effective forces in the world. 
   In addition, we have added about a billion dollars to the operation and maintenance accounts. These are critical accounts because equipment needs to be maintained and our troops need to be trained. All of these operations are integral parts of an effective fighting force, and we have made that commitment. 
   In addition, we have tried with those extra dollars to fund, as best we can, the Service Chiefs' unfunded requirements. Those items they have identified--the Chiefs of Staff of the Army, Air Force, CNO of the Navy--are critical systems they think are vital to the performance of their service's mission. 
   In addition, we have also looked at and dealt with a very critical problem, and that is recruitment and retention of the military forces. We are finding ourselves each month, in many services, falling behind our goals for enrolling new enlistees to the military services and retaining the valuable members of the military services coming up for reenlistment. 
   This bill, which incorporates many provisions of S. 4, increases pay by 4.8 percent and significantly changes the retirement provisions that were adopted in the 1980s to more favorably represent a retirement system for our military. It also will incorporate the provisions of Senator CLELAND's bill with respect to Montgomery G.I. bill benefits, making them more flexible for military personnel so they can be used for a spouse or child. This is a very important development, not only because of the substance, but also in the fact that it represents that type of innovative thinking about dealing with the problem of recruitment and retention, not simply by doing the obvious, but something that is innovative and, in the long term, helpful. I commend the Senator from Georgia for his great leadership on this issue. 
   What we are also recognizing here is that among the quality of life issues that affect the military is the issue of health care. I am pleased to note that we have attempted to deal with a nagging problem with the military, and that is the difficulty of obtaining assistance regarding the TriCare system--that is the HMO, if you will, that military families and personnel use. We have heard numerous complaints about TriCare. Indeed, they are many of the same complaints we hear about civilian HMOs from constituents back home. 
   It is interesting to note that this legislation incorporates an ombudsman program for TriCare. There will be an 800 number where a military person can call with a complaint, with a question, or with a concern, and we will have an individual at that number who will help the person negotiate and navigate through the intricate system of managed care. 
   This is such an interesting program, and, indeed, we are working on this in the context of civilian health care. Senator WYDEN and I introduced legislation to create an ombudsman program for all managed care in the United States. Our program would authorize States to set up ombudsman programs to assist our constituents in dealing with problems just as real and just as complicated as problems facing military personnel in the TriCare system. 
   I hope that our unanimous support of this provision today in this legislation will be a beacon of hope as we consider managed care reform on this floor in the days ahead so that we can, in fact, adopt an ombudsman provision for our civilian programs as well as our military TriCare program. 
   I am also pleased to note that we have actively supported the nonproliferation provisions in this legislation. 
   The Cooperative Threat Reduction program is absolutely essential to our national security. We authorize $475 million, an increase of $35 million. 
   The crucial area of concern obviously is the stockpile of nuclear weapons in the newly independent states of the former Soviet Union. We want to make sure that they safeguard that system. We want to also make sure that we can work with them to dismantle those systems which will lead both to their security and our security and the security of the world. 
   I am somewhat regretful, however, that the Senate chose to table Senator KERREY's amendment which would strike the requirement that the United States maintain strategic force levels consistent with START I until START II provisions come into effect. We all agree that the United States needs to maintain a robust deterrent force, although I argue that this can be best accomplished at the START II level. Mandating that the United States maintain a START I level is another example of how we sometimes over-manage and hobble the Department of Defense. I think we can, and should have, adopted the amendment of the Senator from Nebraska, Senator KERREY. It would have been a valuable contribution to this overall legislation. 
   We also are fortunate that we have in fact pushed ahead on another provision which touches on our nuclear security and a strategic posture, and that is the approval of the decision of the Department of Defense to reduce our Trident submarine force from 18 ships to 14 ships. That is a step in the right direction towards the START II level. 
   I am also pleased that this bill will authorize funding to begin design activity regarding the conversion of those four Trident ballistic nuclear submarines to conventional submarines which are more in line with the current situation in the world. In fact, when I have talked to commander in chiefs throughout the world, they say they are continually asked to use those submarines for conventional missions. This will give us four more very high quality platforms to use in conventional situations. I think that is an improvement, both in our strategic posture in terms of nuclear forces and also in terms of our conventional posture. 
   I am, however, also disappointed with respect to another issue. And that is the failure to adopt a base closing amendment as proposed by Senator MCCAIN and Senator LEVIN. We are maintaining a cold war infrastructure in the post-cold-war world. We reduced our forces but we can't reduce our real estate. It is not effective. 
   Until we give our Secretary of Defense and our military chiefs the flexibility in the base closing process to identify and to close excess military installations, we will be spending money that we don't have. And we will be taking that money from readiness, from modernization, and from our forces in the field. They do not deserve that reduction in resources, but in fact deserve the shift of those resources from real estate that is excess to the  real needs of our fighting forces. The real needs are taking care of their families, being ready for the mission, and having equipment to do the mission. And every dollar that we continue to invest in resources and installations that we don't need is one dollar less that we don't have for the real needs of our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines who are out in harm's way standing up and protecting this great country. 
   I hope we can pass a base closing amendment. I am encouraged that we have more support this year than last year. I hope that we can do so, because it is the one way we cannot only eliminate excess space but also do it in a way that is not political. I know there have been many charges on this floor about politicization. As I hear these charges and these arguments against base closings, I fear that we are the ones that are the issue, that we are the ones that are letting politics get in the way of national security policy. The longer we do that, the more detrimental will be our impact upon the true interests of the country and the needs of our military forces. 
   Again, let me say in conclusion that this effort, led by Senator WARNER and Senator LEVIN, by the ranking Members, and the Chairpersons of the subcommittees and assisting agencies, results, I think, in excellent legislation. I encourage all of my colleagues to support this bill. 
   I yield the floor. 
   I note the absence of quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the achievement of St. Philomena School of Portsmouth, Rhode Island, which was recently honored as a U.S. Department of Education Blue Ribbon School. 
   It is a highly regarded distinction to be named a Blue Ribbon School. Through an intensive selection process beginning at the state level and continuing through a federal Review Panel of 100 top educators, 266 of the very best public and private schools in the nation were identified as deserving this special recognition. These schools are particularly effective in meeting local, state, and national goals. However, this honor signifies not just who is best, but what works in educating today's children. 
   Now, more than ever, it is important that we make every effort to reach out to students, that we truly engage and challenge them, and that we make their education come alive. That is what St. Philomena School is doing. St. Philomena is a kindergarten through eighth grade school that emphasizes student achievement. 
   Since opening in 1953, much has changed for St. Philomena. For a brief time, it offered a comprehensive education from elementary through high school. But since the late 1960s, St. Philomena has focused exclusively on elementary education, and its students have benefitted from this wise decision. While the school has grown in size--adding four new buildings to its facilities, its administration and faculty have taken a personalized approach to each student's education. 
   Mr. President, St. Philomena is dedicated to the highest standards. It is a school committed to a process of continuous improvement not only for students but for teachers as well. Indeed, St. Philomena's teachers hone their skills as educators by continuously pursuing educational opportunities of their own. 
   Mr. President, the Blue Ribbon School initiative shows us the very best we can do for students and the techniques that can be replicated in other schools to help all students succeed. I am proud to say that in Rhode Island we can look to a school like St. Philomena. Under the leadership of its principal, Sister Ann Marie Walsh, its capable faculty, and its involved parents, St. Philomena School will continue to be a shining example for years to come.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the achievement of Tiogue School of Coventry, Rhode Island, which was recently honored as a U.S. Department of Education Blue Ribbon School. This is the second time in 3 years that a school from Coventry has earned this honor. 
   It is a highly regarded distinction to be named a Blue Ribbon School. Through an intensive selection process beginning at the state level and continuing through a federal Review Panel of 100 top educators, 266 of the very best public and private schools in the Nation were identified as deserving of this special recognition. These schools are particularly effective in meeting local, state, and national goals. However, this honor signifies not just who is best, but what works in educating today's children. 
   Now, more than ever, it is important that we make every effort to reach out to students, that we truly engage and challenge them, and that we make their education come alive. That is what Tiogue School is doing. Tiogue is a kindergarten through sixth grade school, which proudly says that it is a school ``where everybody is somebody'' and where children come first. These are more than just catch-phrases for Tiogue, which seeks to reach out to every student in the community and engages teachers, parents, and business and community leaders in the important job of education. 
   Teams of teachers work to develop appropriate but rigorous standards for all students. The results are impressive. Tiogue students have exceeded the norms on state assessments in each of the past five years. But Tiogue's teachers also work to develop a curriculum that extends far beyond what the assessments measure. Each year, the school focuses on a particular issue, subject, or theme. As a preface to the Summer Olympics, students studied world cultures with a focus on the diverse background of the student population. During another year, students studied the arts and worked to develop their skills as artists, writers, musicians, and dancers. This year, Tiogue is taking their education to another level with an exploration of outer space. 
   Mr. President, Tiogue School is dedicated to the highest standards. It is a school committed to a process of continuous improvement with a focus on high student achievement. Most importantly, Tiogue recognizes the value of the larger community and seeks its support and involvement. This school and community are making a huge difference in the lives of its students.  
   Mr. President, the Blue Ribbon School initiative shows us the very best we can do for students and the techniques that can be replicated in other schools to help all students succeed. I am proud to say that in Rhode Island we can look to a school like Tiogue School. Under the leadership of its principal, Denise Richtarik, its capable faculty, and its involved parents, Tiogue School will continue to be a shining example for years to come.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, will the Senator from Arizona yield 10 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Arizona. 
   Mr. President, I rise in support of this amendment that would authorize a single round of base closures during the year 2001. I commend both the Senator from Arizona and the Senator from Michigan for presenting this amendment to the Senate today. 
   I am well aware that we all recognize this is a very sensitive issue, because it potentially impacts the constituents of each and every one of the Members of the Senator. 
   My home State of Rhode Island is no exception to this. We are the proud home to a significant presence of the U.S. Navy, both at the Naval War College and the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in Newport. 
   We have a tradition of Naval service in Rhode Island. As in every other State, we are sensitive to the potential vulnerabilities of another round of base closures. But I, for one, recognize the imperative nature of doing this, for many of the reasons that were so well outlined by the Senator from Arizona. 
   We have already in the past in Rhode Island--and I suspect in other places around the country--suffered from cutbacks. In fact, before the base closing process was established back in the early 1970s, one of our major bases, Quonset Point Air Station, was closed and, indeed, we lost effectively all of the surface ships that used to regularly be 
   stationed in Newport. The result was traumatic to my home State. 
   Rhode Island is the smallest State in the country. Every family in Rhode Island either had some connection to Quonset Point Air Station or knew someone who worked there. Whole families had to leave the State. Many moved down to Wilmington, NC, where there was another naval aviation center. It caused great trauma and it set our economy back tremendously. In fact, we are still trying to reestablish and regenerate that site. 
   But despite all of that--despite the real costs to individuals, the real costs to families--we have to do this in order to maintain a national defense that will truly be efficient and effective. 
   It is difficult to talk about this issue and to tell constituents that there might be another round of base closings, but it is absolutely necessary. We are maintaining a cold war military structure in terms of bases. Yet, we know we need to reform and to reorganize. We will face new threats in the century beyond with a cold war military structure. 
   As the Senator from Arizona said, we organized so much of our military to support a huge landforce that was designed to counterattack a threat from the former Soviet Union. That has mercifully evaporated with the demise of the Soviet Union. The new threats to our national security are different. Yet, we still have the same cold war base infrastructure which we must reform, and the only practical way to do that is to organize another round of base closings. 
   It is a difficult decision, but it is a decision that we must make. 
   The numbers speak for themselves. This is almost a mathematical equation in terms of what we must do. We are maintaining approximately 23 percent extra capacity in the Department of Defense in terms of our bases. If you look at our force structure, the troops in the field, the men and women who are actually the war-fighters who defend the Nation every day, we have reduced those numbers by 36 percent since 1989. Yet, we have only been able to reduce our infrastructure by 21 percent. There is an imbalance. We have a smaller force structure. Yet we still have much of the old real estate that we accumulated from World War II all the way through the cold war. 
   We already embarked on limited base reductions in previous base closing rounds. We have saved approximately  $3.9 billion to date. It is estimated that the base closing process that has already taken place will yield $25 billion by the year 2003. 
   Those are the significant savings. Yet, we hear lots of folks disputing the savings. I think everyone in America recognizes that when you close unnecessary bases, you save money. That is what corporate America has been doing now for the last 10 years. That is, in fact, one of the reasons why American productivity and American corporate profits are soaring and Wall Street is reflecting those results. It is because American businesses have the flexibility to close unwanted facilities, many times painfully so, to small communities. 
   But in the military establishment, we have denied our managers--the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and his colleagues--that same type of flexibility. We have done it in a way which has retarded our ability to save billions of dollars which we need for other priorities in the Department of Defense. 
   Another charge was raised in this discussion about why base closings shouldn't be pursued at this moment. It said that there is no effective audit of these savings. In many respects, what we have saved, if you will, are costs that would have been incurred. They are foregone. 
   They won't be incurred. It is difficult to audit some things you won't spend money on, but those savings are equally real. 
   We have a situation where we know we have saved money in previous base closing rounds--billions of dollars. And we know through estimates that we will save in this round additional money if we authorize an additional round of base closings. This is an estimate that has been agreed to by both the Congressional Budget Office and the General Accounting Office. They estimated there is excess capacity, that we can save money by another round of base closings. 
   There is another argument that has been raised to try to defeat the notion of a new round of base closings: That the environmental cleanup costs associated with closing bases eats up all the savings. 
   The reality, legally, is that the Department of Defense is responsible for these cleanup costs regardless of whether they keep the bases open or they close them. The only difference is an accounting difference. When you close a base, there is much more of an accelerated cleanup so the property can be turned over to civilian authority. In terms of the dollar responsibility, the contingent liabilities out there for cleanup of military bases remain the same, regardless of whether we have a base closing round or we just simply let these excess bases continue to operate. That, too, is not a reason to defeat the notion of a base closing round today. 
   As the Senator from Arizona pointed out, this is the top priority of the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Service Secretaries, the uniformed heads of our military services. They all know that they need additional dollars for higher priority items than some of these bases. 
   Last September, the Service Chiefs came to the Senate Armed Services Committee and said they needed more resources to do the job. We were quite forthcoming. In fact, we authorized $8.3 billion over the President's budget request. Yet, when they say they equally need the closing of excess bases, we ignore their plea--equally fervent, equally important, equally necessary for the success of the Department of Defense, yet we ignore this plea. 
   Some of this has been a result of claims that the last base closing round was politicized. This proposal is that the process be conducted in the year 2001, which is beyond the term of this administration. I think the argument of politicization is false because whatever confidence or lack of confidence you have in this current administration, this proposal, this amendment, would carry it beyond this administration into the next administration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. If I can retain my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Briefly, because I know my colleagues are eager to continue in colloquy, but in response to the chairman, most of what I think was the initiative, if you will, involved in the last base closing, came after the particular bases were identified for closing by the Commission. It was not a question where political decisions were made to close bases. I think, rather, political decisions were made to try to avoid and go around the work of the Commission. So the Commission process is, I think we would all agree, as unpolitical as you can get. The research in the bowels of the Pentagon is, I think, similarly nonpolitical. If it is not, then we have more worries than a base closing commission, if we have GS-14s doing political deeds for anyone rather than looking rationally and logically at the needs of the service and the infrastructure to support those needs. 
   If the administration was guilty of politicization, then shame on them. But we are running the risk of, ourselves, politicizing this process. We are running the risk of rejecting the logic. 
   The overwhelming conclusion I think any rational person could draw is that we have to start closing bases. The base closing mechanism is the best way to do that, and we are in a situation where, if we resist this, if we cannot find a formulation, we are going to politicize it worse than anything that is purported to have been done by the administration. 
   I strongly support the measure offered by the Senator from Arizona and the Senator from Michigan. We have an opportunity to align our force structure and our base structure to give resources to the Department of Defense, to support the really pressing needs of our troops, to retain them, to train them, to provide them a quality of life they deserve. 
   When you go out to visit troops--I know everyone here on this floor today does that frequently--what those young troops are worried about is: Do they have the best training, best equipment, and are their families well taken care of? They do not worry about whether we have a base in Oregon or a base in Texas or a base in Rhode Island. They worry about their training,  their readiness for the mission, their weapons, and whether their families are taken care of. If we listen to them, we will support this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation with Senator TORRICELLI that would ensure that children enrolled in federal health care programs receive screening and appropriate follow-up care for lead poisoning. Our bill, the ``Children's Lead SAFE Act of 1999'' is an effort to eliminate a disease that continues to wreak irreversible damage upon our nation's children. 
   Despite our success over the past twenty years to reduce lead poisoning  in the U.S., it continues to be the number one environmental health threat to children, with nearly one million preschoolers affected. This problem is particularly severe among African American children who are at five times higher risk than white children and low-income children are at eight times higher risk than children from well-to-do families. 
   Minorities and low-income children are disproportionately affected by lead poisoning because they frequently live in older housing which contains cracked or chipped lead paint, where children primarily contract lead poisoning by ingesting paint chips or lead dust. 
   If undetected, lead poisoning can cause brain and nervous system damage, behavior and learning problems and possibly death. 
   Research shows that children with elevated blood-lead levels are seven times more likely to drop out of high school and six times more likely to have reading disabilities. It costs an average of $10,000 more a year to educate a lead-poisoned child. We will continue to pay for our failure to eradicate this preventable tragedy through costs to our education and health care system, and losses in lifetime earnings, unless we act now to protect our children. 
   As I mentioned, this disease is entirely preventable, making its prevalence among children all the more frustrating. We do have solutions--parents who are aware, housing that is safe, and effective screening and treatment for children who are at risk--to name a few. 
   Unfortunately, our current system is not adequately protecting our children. In January 1999, the General Accounting Office reported that children in federally funded health care programs such as Medicaid, Women Infant and Child (WIC) and the Health Centers program, are five times more likely to have elevated blood lead levels. The report also found that despite longstanding federal requirements, two-thirds of the children in these programs--more than 400,000--have never been screen and, consequently, remain untreated. 
   Early detection of lead poisoning is critical to ensure that a child is removed from the source of exposure and to determine whether other children, such as siblings or friends, have also been exposed. Screening is also important to determine whether a child's lead poisoning is so severe as to require medical management to mitigate the long-term health and developmental effects of lead. 
   Mr. President, our comprehensive legislation is designed to make sure no child falls through the cracks, by establishing clear and consistent standards for screening and treatment and by holding accountable those who are responsible for carrying out the requirements. The legislation supports improved management information systems to provide state- and community-level information about the extent to which children have elevated blood lead levels. It also expands and coordinates lead screening and treatment activities through other federal programs serving at-risk children such as WIC, Early Head Start, and the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant programs. Finally, the bill ties incentives for screening to additional federal funding for cleaning up lead-contaminated houses. 
   Mr. President, we propose this legislation in an effort to rid children of the detrimental effects of lead poisoning. Every child has a right to screening and follow-up care. This bill will significantly increase the number of poisoned children who are screened and treated and help communities, parents, and physicians to take advantage of every opportunity that they have to detect and treat lead poisoning before its irreversible effects set in. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I rise in strong support of the Lautenberg amendment. It would close a number of serious loopholes that were created by the Hatch-Craig amendment. As the Hatch-Craig amendment stands today, any number of places where people could buy large quantities of guns would not be deemed gun shows, would not be subject to these types of regulations. The Lautenberg amendment closes that loophole. 
   The Lautenberg amendment would allow for 72 hours in certain circumstances for background checks. That is absolutely necessary. As the Senator from New York said, on a Saturday, when many of these gun shows take place, there is no possible way of doing a 24-hour background check. 
   It would also allow the individual who is a weapons dealer to be subject to liability if they are not following the law. That is very critical. 
   All of these provisions together are in the Lautenberg amendment. That is an amendment the American people support overwhelmingly, because they want a structure of laws that actually protects their children and does not simply provide some slick cover for the gun lobby. They want their children protected. They want us to do it in a sensible way. They want us to pass laws which are not cynical exercises in self-preservation but will actually protect the children of America. 
   The Lautenberg amendment will do this. I strongly support it. Gun control is absolutely essential to the process of protecting children, but so many of these incidents we have seen--as just this morning--show that we also need 
   to take preventative action to ensure that children, with or without access to firearms, do not feel self-destructive  and destructive of others. That is part of this overall legislation. In fact, we could do much more. Today we are here to make a clear choice between laws that work to protect children and an exercise in simply protecting the gun lobby. I support the Lautenberg amendment. 
   I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the supplemental appropriations conference report. 
   Mr. President, this bill is not perfect, and I realize that some of my colleagues do not believe it is worthy of support. I disagree. This legislation meets several pressing demands that we have a responsibility to meet. First, this compromise provides essential funding for our military operations in Yugoslavia as well as humanitarian aid for Kosovo refugees. Without this funding our fighting men and women will face equipment and material shortfalls and view a ``no'' vote as a lack of support for them and their mission. Second, this legislation follows through on a commitment we made to provide a long-overdue pay raise for our troops. Third, this legislation provides disaster assistance to help our Latin American neighbors recover from the hurricane which struck that region so viciously earlier this year, and it contains funds to aid recovery from the recent spate of tornadoes here at home. Lastly, it extends the Airport Improvement Program which helps our nation's airports reduce aircraft noise and ensure aviation safety. 
   However, I am disappointed that the Conference Committee decided to retain the Hutchison-Graham tobacco settlement recoupment provision in this year's Supplemental Appropriations bill. This amendment clearly does not deal with an ``emergency'' situation and should, therefore, not be included in this legislation. I am also deeply concerned that we have not thoroughly considered the potential impact this provision will have on the federal budget in years to come. 
   In essence, this provision usurps the ability of the Congress to engage in a healthy debate about the use of the federal share of the tobacco settlement. While many argue that the federal government has absolutely no claim to this money, those assertions simply are not true. Current law dictates that the federal government rightly has a say over the percentage it contributes to the Medicaid program. Yet, instead of bringing this matter to the floor and considering it in an honest fashion, we are allowing an unprecedented opportunity to make a real difference in the lives of millions of Americans completely slip away from us. It is unfortunate that proponents of turning over the federal share of the tobacco settlement to the states without any guidelines have taken this backdoor approach. 
   In essence, we have allowed our hands to be tied by the states, who wish to use this money to cut taxes, fix roads and build new buildings, among other things. According to a recent survey conducted by the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids, the majority of states, as of today, have no definite plans to spend a portion of the settlement on programs to prevent children from starting to smoke or to help current smokers quit the habit. This action is in direct contrast with the desires of the majority of Americans who would like to see a major portion of this money set aside for tobacco prevention and cessation programs and health care to cover the cost of tobacco related illness. In my state, Rhode Islanders have resoundingly supported dedicating a significant amount of the settlement for tobacco related activities. 
   I am saddened that we appear to have lost sight of the fact that the process of suing the tobacco companies was not so states could get more money for roads or schools, but because for decades these companies purposefully deceived the American public about the dangers of smoking. As a result, generations of Americans have suffered the adverse health effects of this campaign of deceit, and the federal government spent billions addressing the health care needs of these folks. While states were triumphant in reaching this monumental agreement, what will the effort have been for if there is no change in teen smoking rates in this country? 
   Lastly, I am concerned that the conference report contains a number of dubious environmental riders that should be more fully debated as well as several budgetary off-sets that raise a number of questions. In particular, as a Senator who serves on the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, I believe that the rescission of $350 million worth of Section 8 funds could jeopardize the renewal of affordable housing contracts for thousands of elderly and low-income Americans, which would be a step backwards in our effort to increase the amount of affordable housing in our nation. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, in the past week the Republican majority in the Senate finally has begun to show signs of understanding that Americans want reasonable gun control policies in this country. We have made some progress by passing a ban on juvenile possession of semiautomatic assault weapons and a ban on the importation of high-capacity ammunition clips. We saw most Republicans join all Democrats in voting to require that child safety devices be sold with all handguns. And finally, this morning, with a tie-breaking vote by the Vice President, we passed the Lautenberg amendment to firmly close the gun show loophole. 
   These are the kinds of measures that Democrats in Congress have been advocating for years, and it is unfortunate that it took a tragedy like Littleton to bring our colleagues in the majority around to our way of thinking, but we welcome even these small steps in the right direction. 
   But small steps they are, Mr. President, and we need to do much more. We should reinstate the Brady waiting period, which expired last November, to provide a cooling off period before the purchase of a handgun. We should pass a child access prevention law to hold adults responsible if they allow a child to gain access to a firearm and that child then uses the firearm to harm another person. And we should firmly close the Internet gun sales loophole, something the Senate failed to do last week. 
   I also believe that we should apply the same consumer product regulations which apply to virtually every other industry and product in this country to guns. If toy guns, teddy bears, lawn mowers and hair dryers are subject to regulation to ensure that they include features to minimize the danger to children, why not firearms? I plan to introduce legislation to allow the Consumer Product Safety Commission to regulate firearms to protect children and adults against unreasonable risk of injury. I know my friend Senator TORRICELLI has introduced a bill to allow the Treasury Department to regulate firearms. Whichever agency ultimately has oversight, the important thing is that guns should no longer be the only consumer product exempt from basic safety regulations. 
   Mr. President, the NRA's own estimate is that there are over 200 million guns in this country. That's nearly one for every American. But let's remember that most Americans don't own guns. For most Americans, especially in urban areas, a gun in a public place in the possession of anyone other than a law enforcement officer usually brings on a sense of fear, not a sense of protection. 
   As the President said a few weeks ago, this fundamental difference in perspective is at the heart of this gun debate. If we are to solve the problem of gun violence in this country, we have to come to a meeting of the minds between gun owners and non-gun owners, between rural and urban America. 
   Americans who live in urban and suburban communities need to understand  the legitimate use of firearms for hunting and sports activities. But at the same time, members of Congress from mostly rural states must recognize the immense pain and suffering that guns cause in our nation's urban areas, and they should work with us to convince their constituents that reasonable, targeted gun restrictions can make a world of difference by saving lives in America's cities and suburbs. 
   I would also add that this is not simply an eastern vs. western states issue. For example, the Washington Post recently reported that in Florida, six of the state's most urban counties have adopted measures to require a waiting period and background checks on all firearm sales at guns shows, while the rest of the state has not. Every senator, from every region of the country, has some constituents who legally use firearms, and others who want nothing to do with them and see them as a deadly threat. My state is no different, and I recognize that many of my constituents are decent people who hunt or sport-shoot safely. 
   While much more needs to be done, and while we are still far from passing comprehensive gun safety legislation, we have seen in the past week at least a few limited examples of how, working together, we can bridge the gap and approve reasonable, targeted restrictions on gun access without taking away a law-abiding, adult citizen's ability to own a gun. 
   I also believe that gun dealers should be held responsible if they violate federal law by selling a firearm to a minor, convicted felon, or others prohibited from buying firearms. Currently, there are over 104,000 federally licensed firearms dealers in the United States. While most of these dealers are responsible small business people, recent tracing of crime-related guns by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) has found substantial evidence that some dealers are selling guns to juveniles and convicted felons. This direct diversion of weapons from retail to illegal markets is taking place both through off-the-book sales by corrupt dealers and through so-called straw purchases, when an ineligible buyer has a friend or relative buy a firearm for him or her. 
   To remedy this situation, I have introduced legislation, the Gun Dealer Responsibility Act, that would provide a statutory cause of action for victims of gun violence against dealers whose illegal sale of a gun directly contributes to the victim's injury. I believe this legislation will make unscrupulous gun dealers think twice about who they are selling weapons to, particularly minors, convicted felons, or any other ineligible buyer, either directly or through straw purchases. 
   Our nation's federal juvenile justice programs establish four core principles that have served as the foundation of federal juvenile justice policy for years. States are required to uphold these principles in order to receive federal grant funds for juvenile justice activities. These four core principles include: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to help turn the tide of gun violence by requiring greater responsibility from those in the business of selling weapons. 
   Currently, there are over 104,000 federally licensed firearms dealers in the United States. While most of these dealers are responsible small business people, recent tracing of crime-related guns by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) has found substantial evidence that some dealers are selling guns to minors, convicted felons, and others who are prohibited by federal law from purchasing firearms. This direct diversion of weapons from retail to illegal markets is taking place both through off-the-book sales  by corrupt dealers and through so-called straw purchases, when an ineligible buyer has a friend or relative buy a firearm for him. 
   While federal law already prohibits a person from transferring a firearm when a person knows that the gun will be used to commit a crime, it is very difficult for victims of gun violence to seek legal redress from gun dealers who sell guns to those prohibited from buying firearms. There is very little case law and no federal law giving victims of gun violence the right to sue gun dealers who make illegal gun sales. 
   To remedy this situation, my legislation, the Gun Dealer Responsibility Act, would provide a statutory cause of action for victims of gun violence against dealers whose illegal sale of a gun directly contributes to the victim's injury. 
   I believe this legislation will make unscrupulous gun dealers think twice about selling weapons to minors, convicted felons, or any other ineligible buyer, either directly or through straw purchases. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would help local communities coordinate services for juvenile offenders who are leaving the juvenile justice system and returning to their communities. This provision was included in the Robb amendment to S. 254, the Violent and Repeat Juvenile Offender Accountability and Rehabilitation Act of 1999, which was unfortunately tabled earlier this week. 
   The problem of mental illness plagues an alarming number of youth, who too often find themselves caught up in the juvenile justice system. While overall crime rates in this country have been in decline for the past few years, we have seen alarming increases in the number of serious and violent crimes committed by minors. Each year, more than two million youngsters under the age of 18 are arrested. What's more, statistics show that thirty percent of these young people will commit another crime within a year of their initial arrest. 
   Often, society views these young people, who have turned to crime at such an early age, as a ``lost cause'' or simply beyond hope of rehabilitation. The said fact that often gets overlooked is that many of these youngsters are battling with a serious emotional or mental disorder that winds up manifesting itself in criminal behavior. We cannot condone this behavior, yet, we as a society have failed to dedicate the resources necessary to bring these children back from the edge of self-destruction. 
   The legislation I am introducing today would help local agencies to coordinate the array of mental health, substance abuse, vocational, and education services a youngster may need to successfully transition back into the mainstream. Once a youth has been through the juvenile or criminal justice system, we need to do all we can to prevent a similar incident. If these children have been identified as having a mental or emotional disorder, they need to have access to appropriate treatment and services while they are incarcerated, but perhaps more imperatively when they leave incarceration. Turning these young people out on the street with no services to facilitate their transition does not help these children and does not help society as a whole. 
   Studies have found the rate of mental disorder is two to three times higher among the juvenile offender population than among youth in the general population. According to a 1994 Department of Justice study, 73 percent of juvenile offenders reported mental health problems and 57 percent reported past treatment for their condition. In addition, it is estimated that over 60 percent of youth in the juvenile justice system have substance abuse disorders, compared to 22 percent in the general population. 
   In an effort to bring desperately needed mental health services to this terribly underserved population, my legislation would authorize the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), in collaboration with the Departments of Justice and Education, to administer a  competitive grant program that responds to the array of social and educational needs of children who are leaving the juvenile justice system. 
   These cooperative ``wrap-around services'' would enable juvenile justice agencies to work together with educational and health agencies to provide transitional services for youth who have had contact with the juvenile justice system, in order to decrease the likelihood that these young people will commit additional criminal offenses. 
   These services, which would be targeted toward youth offenders who have serious emotional disturbances or are at risk of developing such disturbances, could include diagnostic and evaluation services, substance abuse treatment, outpatient mental health care, medication management, intensive home-based therapy, intensive day treatment services, respite care, and therapeutic foster care. 
   I think it is important for my colleagues to note that this proposal is modeled after existing programs with a proven record of success. For instance, my home state of Rhode Island is one of four states (the others include California, Wisconsin, and Virginia) that has sought to target teens who have been diagnosed with a serious emotional disturbance and provide them with the services they need to get back on track. 
   The Rhode Island Department of Youth and Families last year initiated a statewide program called ``Project Hope'', for youth ages 12 to 18 with serious emotional disturbances who are in the process of transitioning from the Rhode Island Training School back into their communities. The goal of the partnership is to develop a single, community-based system of care for these children to reduce the likelihood that they will re-offend. The program brings a core set of services to these young people that includes health care, substance abuse treatment, educational/vocational services, domestic violence and abuse support groups, recreational programs, and day care services. A key component in the program's strategy is to engage young people and their families in the planning and implementation of these transition services. 
   A similar program that has been in operation in Milwaukee, Wisconsin since 1994 has reported a 40 percent decline in the number of felonies committed and a 30% decrease in misdemeanors after providing comprehensive services to children with serious emotional disorders for one year. 
   This legislation would provide states with the resources and flexibility to start filing a critical service gap for youngsters who are leaving the juvenile justice system and re-entering their communities. The provisions of adequate transitional and aftercare services to prevent recidivism is essential to reducing the societal costs associated with juvenile delinquency, promoting teen health, and fostering safe communities. 
   I am pleased to introduce this legislation today. The provisions outlined in this bill will help community agencies to coordinate services, which will prevent these troubled juveniles from committing additional crimes and falling into a life on the fringes of society. It is in our best interest to take responsibility for these teens instead of turning our backs on them at such a critical stage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for yielding. I am pleased to support his amendment, together with Senator DASCHLE. 
   I think it underscores the bipartisan nature of this amendment that both Senator SHELBY and Senator DASCHLE are here today to advance a very important issue. It is a very important issue that I have been working on for over a year. 
   In fact, in the last Congress, I had an amendment in the Banking Committee that was very similar to this, and my impetus is to suggest this amendment was based upon my experience as not only a Senator but also as someone who was a lawyer and involved in banking matters in my home State of Rhode Island. 
   It is very important to clear up a misconception that might be operating at the moment that the Federal Reserve is the exclusive repository of banking direction and regulation in the United States. Such a claim is just wrong. Banking policy in the United States is the province of many different organizations. The Federal Reserve principally, starting in 1956 with the Bank Holding Company Act, regulates the operations of bank holding companies. 
   Here is a simple schematic of what a bank holding company is. It is a holding company--a corporation under State law usually owning a bank, and also owning the other affiliates. 
   This bank holding structure became an issue in the 1950s, and as a result the Federal Reserve was empowered by Congress--I should emphasie ``by Congress,'' not by its own direction--to regulate bank holding companies. But long before that, beginning in the 1860s, national banks were regulated under the Department of the Treasury and the Comptroller of the Currency. Indeed, other financial entities, other depository entities, are regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision. 
   We should be very clear. This is not an attempt to wrench away from the Federal Reserve their exclusive prerogative to run the banking system in the United States. This amendment is attempting to provide flexibility to banking organizations so they can conduct a limited range of activities in either a subsidiary of the bank or an affiliate of the bank. 
   If they are conducted in the affiliate, they will be regulated under current law and under our anticipated legislation by the Federal Reserve; if they are conducted in the subsidiary, they will be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the other regulator of this particular bank. 
   It is also important to note that there are only two rather narrowly defined activities that could be conducted under the Shelby-Daschle amendment: Securities underwriting or merchant banking activities. I should hasten to add that these two activities would also be regulated by the functional regulator. If it is securities activities, it would be regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We are talking about a very narrow band of activities. It is important to keep that in mind. 
   We are in no way talking about displacing the Federal Reserve as a principal regulator of bank holding companies. What we are talking about is giving banking organizations the flexibility to decide, based upon their own analysis, whether they want to conduct these two limited activities, either an affiliate or a subsidiary of the bank. 
   What the underlying legislation, S. 900, would do essentially is give the Federal Reserve all the authority. It would cut out effectively what currently exists, the regulating authority of the Comptroller of the Currency to determine a limited range of activities that either could or could not be done either in the bank itself or a subsidiary bank. 
   Many have described this as a turf fight. I don't think that is a proper description. What we should be doing and what the Shelby amendment is attempting to do is to provide the type of regulatory balance necessary, first, to guarantee safety and soundness; and, second, to give banking institutions the flexibility to conduct the business the way they decide rather than the way we might dictate here in Washington. 
   Now, one of the interesting things to know is that we are attempting to change a high bond regulatory structure that was erected in the wake of the 1930s. I note that the Senator from Texas noted that all of our financial problems were solved in 1913 when we created the Federal Reserve, but there was a brief interlude in the 1930s where the economy was in disarray during the Depression. 
   As a result of that, we created the Glass-Steagall Act that separated various activities. We now recognize, because of many different factors, that we should in fact undo this very rigid structure and provide flexibility for a combination of different financial activities--insurance activities, security activities, depository activities. However, this amendment, the Shelby-Daschle amendment, goes to the heart of that flexibility by providing the kind of business flexibility that banks should have in this new, very fast paced international economic environment. 
   I explained basically the structure of the typical bank holding company, and I think that is useful because for the last several weeks we have been hearing jargon such as ``op-sub'' and ``affiliate,'' et cetera. It is exactly what I suggested before: A bank holding company, a company that is typically a commercial enterprise, a State-chartered company, owns a depository institution; in turn, they operate some activities and subsidiaries throughout the affiliate. That is basically what we are talking about now. 
   The question is, What should we do to ensure that, first, safety and soundness is protected; and, two, that the banks have the kind of flexibility they need and the corporate governance to operate effectively? 
   What we are proposing with this amendment is that in these two limited activities--securities activities and merchant banking--the bank holding company have the choice of either doing it in a subsidiary or affiliate. As I understand it, the underlying legislation would allow a very small bank holding company to conduct these activities in a subsidiary. So this is, in some respects, an issue of size. But the  principle already exists within the context of the underlying legislation that these activities can, in fact, be conducted in subsidiaries. 
   Looking ahead at what the amendment requires, it is very important to note that in order to conduct these activities a bank would have to meet certain tests. First of all, the bank would have to be well managed and well capitalized. This is a requirement that would be similar on bank holding companies. 
   In addition to this, the bank would also have to do specific things to allow or qualify for the conduct of these activities. First of all, if the bank was going to conduct the activities in a subsidiary, it would have to deduct its equity investment in the subsidiary from its own equity. As a result, this provides protections for the bank and for the overall depository system. In addition, it would have to remain well capitalized after the equity deduction. 
   The point here is that the regulators essentially could be satisfied that even as this subsidiary failed, even if the whole investment were lost, it would not adversely affect the capital bank, which is at the heart of their notion of protecting safety and soundness. 
   In addition to that, they would be limited to the amount of money they could invest in a subsidiary. It would be limited to this same amount of money they could ``dividend upwards'' to the bank holding company--another check on the safety and soundness provisions in this legislation. 
   Moreover, if these activities are conducted in a subsidiary, the whole relationship would be governed by section 23(a) and 23(b) of the Federal Reserve Act. These two sections govern transactions between bank affiliates and other holding company affiliates. Essentially, it requires that there be arm's-length dealing between these two entities. 
   For example, section 23(a) imposes a percentage cap on transactions between a bank and our operating subsidiary--the subsidiary cannot be the exclusive source of business for the bank, and vice versa. In addition, section 23(a) provides safeguards with respect to collateral that could and must be used for lending transactions between the bank and subsidiary. In sum, there are provisions in the amendment to guard against the self-dealing that would lead to breaches of safety and soundness. 
   All of these things together suggest very strongly that what we are proposing is entirely consistent with the safety and soundness of the banking system. Indeed, that should be our primary legislative motivation, to be sure that whatever we do here is consistent with safety and soundness. 
   There has been a great deal of discussion about the mysterious subsidy that Chairman Greenspan is talking about, the fact that ``...the reason I oppose this is because of this hidden 
   subsidy,'' because of this transfer. 
   In his words, ``My concerns are not about safety and soundness.'' I am glad, because I think we have convinced or at least we have suggested that we have considered very thoroughly and carefully the safety and soundness issues.  
   It is the issue of creating subsidies for individual institutions which their competitors do not have. It is a level playing field......  
   The subsidy, as explained before, rests upon essentially the guarantee of deposit by Federal deposit insurance. 
   Now, what we have done, first, is protected safety and soundness; second, these subsidies are frequently offset in discussions--indeed, many times complaints--about the restrictions that go along with the depositor insurance. We debated yesterday at length about CRA. That adheres to a bank because of its deposit insurance. That is a cost that other competitors could not have. 
   So when we look at this whole notion of subsidy, there is a very real argument, when it is balanced out, that this subsidy is not particularly significant, that in the margin it will not make a difference whether you conduct this activity in a subsidiary or in an affiliate. Moreover, when a bank holding company is attempting to go to the equity markets to raise equity through stock offerings or through commercial debt paper, no one looks exclusively, uniquely, solely at the bank; they look at the combined activities of the holding company. 
   So if there is a subsidiary at the bank, that all washes out through the bottom line of the bank holding company balance sheet. This notion that the subsidiary is the driving force I don't think is entirely correct. 
   Moreover, when you look at experts who have dealt with this whole issue of whether or not these activities should be conducted in a subsidiary, those in fact who have been responsible for the operation of the FDIC, most of the recent chairpersons--Ricky Halperin, William Isaac, and William Seidman--have argued very strongly and forcefully that in fact placing these activities into a subsidiary would, in fact, be a beneficial and not a detrimental aspect and, in fact, potentially could be a plus for the Bank Insurance Fund. 
   It would be so because if, in fact, there was a troubled bank with a healthy subsidiary, either in the securities business or in the merchant banking business, those healthy assets would be a source of funds to cover depository losses, potentially in the bank. Such coverage from a subsidiary would offset the need for a contribution by the taxpayer-supported deposit insurance fund. 
   It has been mentioned before that foreign banks, in fact, have these powers within the continental United States because of international banking agreements. In fact, there are 19 foreign banks with securities underwriting subsidiaries in the United States and these banks have about $450 billion in assets and they would be allowed to continue their operations under the S. 900 bill, the underlying legislation. As Senator SHELBY pointed out, this is on the surface a disparate treatment between domestic banks and foreign banks, but I think it reveals something else. It goes right back to that issue of: Is there a subsidy? Because these foreign banks are also subsidized by deposit insurance, in most cases, in their country of origin, the country of incorporation. And they are also subsidized in the same way as are our banks, by government policies, by access to the central bank's discount window, by a whole series of governmental programs that assist banking institutions. 
   If you put back Chairman Greenspan's words--again, let me remind you, he is not talking about safety and soundness. He is talking about this mysterious subsidy. Those are his words, but what are the actions of the Federal Reserve when it comes down to approving the applications of these foreign banks to operate security subsidies in the United States? 
   First of all, the Federal Reserve, in the applications they had to approve, looked at the whole subsidiary issue. And they found that technically there was probably a subsidy to the subsidiaries. But what they suggested in approving these applications, which they did, is that by essentially imposing restrictions, as we have done, in terms of capital contributions, in terms of the possible transactions between the bank and subsidiary--that they would be offset. So essentially what the Chairman says and what the Federal Reserve does are two different things. He says this is a dangerous subsidy, yet when they have to approve an application of a foreign bank to operate a subsidiary in the United States, they say they can control that subsidy, essentially, by the same means that we are suggesting--capital contributions and other techniques. 
   So, if you listen to what is being said but look at what is being done in the world, I think, deeds speak louder than words. And the deeds are that this subsidy issue is a false one. Any subsidy is either dissipated through the holding company system or is offset in our amendment by the requirements to deduct capital, by the requirements to limit the investment into a subsidiary to the amount that you could upstream to a 
   holding company for further investment in an affiliate. 
   There is another aspect which I think is telling with respect to the Federal Reserve, their position. I think this could come as a surprise to lots of people. American banks today can own operating subsidiaries and do own operating subsidiaries which can in fact perform merchant banking activities and securities activities--the activities that we are authorizing in this amendment. But they can only have these subsidiaries overseas, and interestingly enough, these subsidiaries are regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank. They are called Edge Act companies.  
   So what we are proposing today in this amendment is no novel redistribution of regulatory opportunities or banking opportunities, really. What we are saying, essentially, is if the Federal Reserve can regulate and authorize American banks through foreign subsidiaries to conduct insurance activities and securities activities and merchant banking activities overseas, why do they object to American banks doing the same thing in the United States? The same thing--limited, of course, to securities activities and merchant banking. 
   There are, as we estimated, subsidiaries with $250 billion in assets, subsidiaries of American banks operating overseas, subject to the regulation not of the Securities and Exchange Commission, but whatever foreign regulator is looking at their operation. Of course, the Fed concludes--they must conclude--this does not pose a threat to the safety and soundness of American banks. Of course, they must conclude that whatever subsidy they are getting through deposit insurance, it is not unfair for them to apply that overseas to invest in foreign subsidiaries to conduct these activities. In fact, the operations of these banks' subsidiaries overseas, these Edge Act companies, are far less regulated than what we are proposing in our amendment. These are not bound by section 23 (a) and (b). They are also not bound by our restrictions, by the amount of money that can be invested in the subsidiary. 
   So I think the Federal Reserve position--in terms of the facts, not the rhetoric, not the appeals to the history--is very weak indeed. The facts establish, No. 1, that in fact they have no objection to American banks' operating subsidiaries' overseas securities activities. It does not pose a threat to safety and soundness in their view. It is not an unfair use of the subsidy if that subsidy exists. 
   So I think we have to be very careful to conclude that what we have here is an amendment that gives banks flexibility, that does not implicate the safety and soundness of the banking system, that does not in any way distort the monetary policymaking role of the Federal Reserve. That in fact is consistent with over 100 years of banking regulation in the United States, which is a shared function between many different banking regulators in the United States. In fact, it is something that will provide the flexibility that is at the heart of this legislation. 
   I hope we will, in fact, support this amendment. It represents a bipartisan attempt to be consistent with the overall theme of this legislation, which is to unshackle our banking institutions from the hidebound rules of the Glass-Steagall Act, to give them an opportunity to compete but to do so in a way that does not implicate, intimidate or, undermine the safety or soundness of the banking system which is our ultimate responsibility. 
   I hope, again, we will accept, adopt and support this amendment. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I do not control time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the Bryan CRA amendment. This amendment would strike the small bank exemption and the CRA safe harbor provisions included in S. 900 and require banks to have a ``satisfactory'' CRA rating as a condition for engaging in the expanded powers allowed under this bill. 
   The language of this amendment is similar to language that was included in the financial modernization bill which passed the House and Senate Banking Committee by a vote of 16 to 2 last year and which enjoyed broad industry support. Similar language has also been incorporated in the H.R. 10 bill that recently passed the House Banking Committee and is pending in the House Commerce Committee. 
   In short, the Community Reinvestment Act requires financial institutions to meet the credit needs of the  local communities in which they are chartered, including low- and moderate-income communities, consistent with safe and sound practices. Let me reiterate, CRA requires banks to make credit-worthy loans. It does not require banks to make bad loans. 
   Despite this fact, some have argued that CRA is tantamount to government-mandated credit allocation. Nothing could be further from the truth. Neither the Act nor its regulations specify the number of loans, the type of loans, or the parties to CRA loans. To the contrary, CRA relies on market forces and private sector ingenuity to promote community lending. This is evidenced by the tremendous flexibility that financial institutions have in satisfying CRA. For example, loans to low-income individuals; loans to nonprofits serving primarily low- and moderate-income housing needs; loans to financial intermediaries such as Community Development Financial Institutions; and loans to local, state, and tribal governments may qualify for CRA coverage. Moreover, loans to finance environmental clean-up or redevelop industrial sites in low- and moderate-income areas also qualify as CRA loans. 
   In addition to lending, CRA is satisfied through investments by financial institutions in organizations engaged in affordable housing rehabilitation, and facilities that promote community development such as child care centers, homeless centers, and soup kitchens. 
   Even Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has weighed in on this issue, arguing, ``The essential purpose of the CRA is to try to encourage institutions who are not involved in areas where their own self-interest is involved, in doing so. If you are indicating to an institution that there is a foregone business opportunity in an area X or loan product Y, that is not credit allocation. That, indeed, is enhancing the market.'' 
   As illustrated by these examples and Chairman Greenspan's comments, it is clear that CRA is a far cry from government-mandated credit allocation. To be sure, CRA is predicated on two simple assumptions that were well-articulated by the legislative architect of CRA, former Senate Banking Committee Chairman Proxmire, who stated, ``(1) Government through tax revenues and public debt cannot and should not provide more than a limited part of the capital required for local housing and economic development needs. Financial institutions in our free economic system must play the leading role, and (2) A public charter for a bank or savings institution conveys numerous benefits and it is fair for the public to ask something in return.'' 
   In the words of former Comptroller of the Currency Eugene Ludwig, ``CRA is in many respects a model statute. It requires no public subsidy, no private subsidy, and no massive Washington bureaucracy.'' 
   It is this simple concept that has resulted in more than $1 trillion in loan commitments for low- and moderate-income borrowers since CRA's enactment in 1977. Indeed, the record home ownership rate that the U.S. is now enjoying--66.3 percent of Americans own their homes--is in large measure due to CRA lending to minorities and low-income individuals. Minorities have accounted for a disproportionately large share of home ownership growth since 1994--roughly 42 percent. 
   Also, since 1993, home mortgage loans to low- and moderate-income census tracts have risen by 22 percent, which is more than twice as fast as the rate of growth in all home mortgage loans. In view of these statistics, it is clear that CRA has played a tremendous role in the home ownership boom. 
   In addition to increases in home mortgage lending, CRA has also been responsible for an increase in community development lending. In the past four years, banks have invested four times as much in community development projects, as they did in the previous thirty years. 
   This increased investment in community development by banks has also furthered the evolution of a secondary market for community development loans, which ultimately provides additional capital for community development. For many years, the development of a secondary market for community development loans had been limited. This development was limited for a number of reasons including the lack of conformity in the underlying loans, as well as the fact that community development securities typically do not receive a rating from a nationally-recognized rating agency. Also, the underlying loans lacked long-term performance data, making them difficult to rate. 
   However, because of CRA, a secondary market for community development securities is beginning to emerge. This is happening for two specific reasons: (1) The federal banking regulators have interpreted CRA to allow banks to get CRA credit for purchasing community development securities, even if they lack ratings or performance data, if the purchases are consistent with safe and sound banking practices, (2) Also, as banks have increased their community development lending, they have been able to draw on this experience to improve underwriting standards and create greater conformity in underwriting, which is important for investors in the secondary market. Also, this experience has provided banks with greater empirical data on loan performance, which is another important consideration for secondary market investors. These are trends that we should clearly be excited about and should seek to further. 
   Instead, S. 900 would undermine this progress. Specifically, one provision of S. 900 would exempt rural banks with assets under $100 million from CRA. Although this exemption is limited to the smallest institutions, over 76 percent of rural banks would be covered. This is of great concern since small banks have historically received the lowest CRA ratings. In fact, institutions with less than $100 million in assets accounted for 92 percent of institutions receiving ``non-compliance'' CRA ratings in 1997-1998. 
   I am also concerned about this exemption because smaller banks are typically the primary sources of credit in rural communities. Hence, absent CRA, it is likely that many rural communities could become credit-starved. 
   The bill also includes a provision that would provide a safe harbor for banks with a ``satisfactory'' or better CRA rating. Specifically, institutions receiving a satisfactory CRA rating at their most recent examination would be presumptively in compliance with CRA, unless 
   ``substantial verifiable information'' to the contrary was presented. I am concerned about this provision because it establishes a very difficult-to-satisfy burden of proof for individuals or groups wishing to protest a bank merger on CRA grounds. Indeed, I fear this provision will greatly inhibit the ability of groups to get the necessary information from banks to protest a merger. Also, when considering the fact that 97 percent of institutions receive a satisfactory or better CRA rating, it is clear that this provision will effectively eliminate CRA comment on a bank merger. 
   If these provisions of S. 900 are not eliminated, I fear a return to the days prior to CRA's enactment when access to credit was limited for many minorities and those living in low-income neighborhoods. In fact, testimony before the Senate Banking Committee during the consideration of CRA in 1977 revealed how bad things were. Witnesses recounted stories of financial institutions that had previously been active in urban lending, that disinvested in those same urban neighborhoods as minorities increasingly moved in. Testimony before the Senate Banking Committee also brought to light a 1974 study of six Chicago banks. In the study, it was found that these banks, which held $144 million in deposits from low-income and minority communities, returned one-half cent on the dollar in home loans. Such was the deplorable state of lending in low-income and minority communities before CRA. 
   While certainly we have come a long way since CRA's passage in 1977, lending discrimination, unfortunately, persists. In a study published earlier this year by the Fair Housing Council of Greater Washington, it was revealed that Washington area lenders discriminate against two out of five African American and Hispanic mortgage applicants. In one incident cited in the study, a Rockville lender advised a black tester that the lender did not make loans to first-time home buyers. The same lender later met with a white tester, also posing as a first-time home buyer, giving the tester an appointment and encouraging him to apply for a mortgage loan. Lending studies by  other organizations reveal similar findings. These studies have shown that minority borrowers receive fewer bank loans even when their financial status is the same as or better than white borrowers. 
   By encouraging lenders to extend credit to all communities, CRA has been an important weapon in fighting lending discrimination. The Bryan amendment will ensure the potency of CRA in fighting lending discrimination and providing fair access to credit to low-income and minority communities. 
   In closing, Mr. President, let me reiterate how important it is to include CRA in any modernization legislation that passes. It is very likely that if S. 900 is enacted, we will see increased consolidation in the financial services industry. As we know from recent experience, this consolidation will likely lead to layoffs and bank branch closings. Absent the CRA language included in the Bryan amendment, I fear that this consolidation could have a significant and adverse impact on access to banking services and credit in low-income and minority communities. By adopting the Bryan amendment, we will at least ensure that industry consolidation will not decrease access to credit in these communities. 
   In fact, I feel so strongly about these provisions that I plan on opposing the bill if this amendment is not adopted. I would hope my colleagues can support this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, just a point of information, I presume we are going to adjourn at 12:30. Presumptively, that means Senator ENZI would be the last speaker this morning. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank Senator ENZI for his graciousness in offering the unanimous consent request. 
   I want to begin by stating how important I think it is to pass financial service modernization legislation as quickly as possible. 
   The existing legal framework has become an anachronism over the last several years--in fact, even the last decade or so. The industry has responded to changes in this market faster than the law has responded. It is our obligation to ensure that we have appropriate legal standards, so that our financial services industry can be competitive in a worldwide market, which is highly dynamic, and which requires more flexibility and more responsiveness than is inherent in the current system, which began under Glass-Steagall more than 60 years ago. 
   So I am a strong proponent of financial modernization. In fact, it is ironic that we were very close in the last Congress to passing financial modernization legislation, which was agreed to by all the major interest groups and which represented a balancing of the need for flexibility, the need for new and expanded powers, the need for financial services industry to be 
   able to reach across prior lines of demarcation to the securities industry, banking industry and insurance industry, and at the same time maintain the principles of safety and soundness, and also the notion that we have to ensure community access to credit. All these things were carefully worked out. Yet, regrettably, H.R. 10 failed in the last few moments of the last Congress. 
   We are back today to begin to address these issues again on the floor of the Senate. That is an encouraging point because I think the worse thing to do would be to continue to delay and avoid this debate. 
   Having said that, let me also recognize that the current legislation we are considering, S. 900, significantly deviates from the principles and the compromises that were carefully worked out in the last Congress. In so doing, I think it raises serious questions about the viability of this legislation, regardless of whether it will pass this body or the other body. There is a strong question of whether it will ultimately become law. It think it should become law and, as a result, I think we need to make changes in the form of amendments. In fact, unless we can deal with some of the issues, I am prepared to oppose this legislation, even though I am strongly committed to ensuring that we ultimately achieve a modernization of our financial services industry. 
   The critical issues that face us with respect to this bill that are troubling are, first, with respect to the Community Reinvestment Act. Over the last  several decades, since 1977, over $1 trillion in loans and loan commitments have been made under the Community Reinvestment Act. It has literally helped maintain and rehabilitate communities, both urban centers and rural areas, throughout this country. Without it, this would be literally a foreign issue, particularly in urban neighborhoods and rural areas. With it, we managed to spark hope and build new communities in places that were sadly lacking in significant opportunities and significant hope. 
   One example of the many in my State is in Woonsocket, RI. It was, at the turn of the century, a thriving mill town. In fact, the river was crowded with factory after factory after factory. With the demise of northern manufacturing, that town has seen difficult times. Through the CRA, citizens were able to avail themselves of significant assistance and credit when they formed the Woonsocket Neighborhood Development Corporation to work toward preserving the neighborhood. 
   I have been there. I have visited these neighborhoods. They are rebuilding old homes that were built in the 1800s. They receive grants and loans from the First National Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in Boston, all under the auspices of CRA. Without these loans, they would not be able to rebuild their communities. It is necessary, it is important, and it can't be dismissed or short-circuited, as I fear S. 900 attempts to do. 
   One of the other provisions in the bill that specifically cuts back on the scope and the effectiveness of CRA is the limitation exemption of CRA for rural financial institutions with assets under $100 million. We all admit that a $100 million bank is a small institution. But such banks represent 76 percent of rural banks in the United States, the vast majority of rural institutions. And these banks historically have the lowest CRA ratings. They are a bank that, on their own volition, aren't responsive going through the data to their local community, and by taking away the responsibility of CRA we will make this situation worse. 
   I think what we will do, in effect, is deny to many rural areas what they think is part and parcel of the local bank in the community; that is, investment in their own community, in their own neighborhood. The reality of this is that people who run banks, which comes as no surprise to anybody, want to make money. When they look around their community and they see a loan for a community project, for housing redevelopment, or a local project to develop a community with a low rate of return, and yet they can see they can park their money someplace in a big city without CRA, the tendency, the temptation, and probably the reality is they will send that money out of that community. 
   It is the local money that forms the basis of these banks. CRA says you have to look at the community, you have to invest in it, you have to care for it, and you have to commit to it, but you don't have to lose money. There is nothing in the CRA law that says you have to make a bad loan. There is nothing in the CRA law that says you have to do something unsafe, unsound, or foolish in banking. It does say that you have to look for appropriate lending opportunities in your community and make those commitments. That is what I think most people assume that local community banks do day in and day out. 
   What I think will happen by the exemption is you will find in rural areas it will be harder to get the kind of credit for those types of community projects, rebuilding of housing, small businesses that do not have the kind of attraction or a track record yet to get the support of the local banks. That is something I think would represent a further demise in the community. 
   Then there is another provision, which has been referred to as ``rebuttal of presumption'' by some and ``safe harbor'' by others, which is included in the legislation and which essentially says, if you have a satisfactory CRA rating, you are presumptively in compliance with respect to a proposed transaction unless someone can come forward with ``substantial verifiable information'' that your rating is not warranted. 
   First, you have to ask yourself, who outside of the bank would have ``substantial verifiable information''? That is typically not in the public domain. So you are setting up in this rebuttal of presumption, or safe harbor, an impossible task that outside community groups particularly would be able to know the inner workings of the bank so well that they could come in 
   and present ``substantial verifiable information.'' So, in effect, what you are doing is saying, if we get your satisfactory rating, we are not going to pay much attention to the CRA. 
   The practical reality is that in major transactions, the notion that CRA is a factor that prompts first these depository institutions to behave better before the transaction and, certainly in contemplation of the transaction, review carefully their commitment to their local community, is one of the most effective and nonintrusive ways, because it doesn't represent the Government going in and directing lending or directing anything in a nonintrusive way if a bank responds to the needs of the community, and to vitiate this by this rebuttal of presumption is, I think, a mistake. 
   One of the other aspects of this rebuttal of presumption is the fact that 97 percent of the institutions have these satisfactory ratings, which could lead to the question of how thorough these reviews are by the regulatory agencies in the first place. 
   It might add a further argument to the fact that perhaps it is only in the context of a serious review or serious questions raised by outside parties that banking institutions take their CRA responsibilities seriously and, in fact, act upon them. But that is another factor which I think we have to consider when we are talking about dispensing with the opportunity to raise in a meaningful way CRA concerns with respect to major transactions. 
   Frankly, everything we have read in the paper over the last several years, several days, and several months has been about major transactions between financial institutions. That has been the driving force in the industry and, coincidentally, has helped the bank be more committed and more responsive to the CRA concerns, because they know this is an item that can be looked at and challenged in a meaningful way in a transaction. If you dispense with that, I think that would be a mistake. 
   There is another provision in the legislation which has been alluded to by the ranking member, Senator SARBANES, and that is essentially providing very limited opportunities to conduct activities in a subsidiary of a banking institution. 
   The bill as it stands today would establish a $1 billion asset cap on those banks that may engage in underwriting activities for securities and merchant banking in an operating subsidiary. I believe that banks of any size should have the opportunity to form themselves in such a way that they feel most competitive in the marketplace with respect to these two particular functions, securities underwriting and merchant banking. Therefore, they can choose to put them in an affiliate holding company, which would be a Federal Reserve regulation, or in a subsidiary of the depository institution which would be subject to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
   I think giving that type of flexibility makes more sense than determining that ``one size fits all'' and all has to be done in the context of a holding company arrangement. 
   I offered last year, because of these views, an amendment to H.R. 10 which would have allowed banks to engage in securities underwriting and merchant banking subsidiaries. I would anticipate another amendment with respect to that. In fact, this language is in the alternative which Senator SARBANES will offer later today, or which I would expect to be offered to try to reach this point. It is an important point. It is not just a point with respect to turf allocations between Federal regulators; it is an opportunity to give the banking industry the flexibility that all say they deserve. 
   There is another problem I see in the legislation. That is with respect to the elimination, for all practical purposes, of prior Federal Reserve Board approval before allowing a bank to merge or engage in a new activity. This once again goes to the heart of the regulatory process. 
   It is nice to assume that banking institutions and financial institutions  are responsible and appropriate in their conduct of activities and that they would only conduct a merger that would be in the best interests of not only themselves but the public. But I think that sometimes strains credulity. 
   It is appropriate, important and, in very practical ways, necessary to have the requirement for prior approval of these major transactions by the Federal Reserve Board, 
   because the Federal Reserve Board has a role independent of the management of the banks. They are trying to maximize shareholder value; they are trying to be competitive in a very difficult market. 
   But it is the Federal Reserve's responsibility to ensure safety and soundness, that competition will not be adversely affected, and that this transaction will in some way serve the public interest. I don't think you can do that by implication. I don't think you can do that by checking after the fact. 
   Again, the reality is that when multibillion-dollar institutions merge and then discover after the fact that it really was a bad idea, it is hard to unravel those transactions. To do it right, you have to do it up front. Therefore, this legislation should have prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board. 
   All of my comments have been appropriately addressed by the Democrat substitute, which will be offered by Senator SARBANES. 
   Let me conclude with some specific concerns about a question that has concerned me throughout the course of our debate not only in this Congress but in the last Congress. That is whether or not the regulatory framework we are creating will be sufficient to protect the safety and soundness of institutions and ultimately protect the public interest. 
   We are trying to expand opportunities, to break down the old hierarchies, the old barriers between different types of financial activity, to give the kind of robust, dynamic opportunities that are concomitant with this world of instantaneous transfer of information and billions of dollars across boundaries. In doing that, we have to recognize our ultimate responsibility is to ensure these institutions operate safely, that they are sound, and that regulatory responsibilities are discharged. 
   We expand dramatically the powers of these institutions under this legislation. But in some respect we are inhibiting some of the traditional regulatory roles of our Federal regulators. For example, in section 114, there is a prohibition which prevents the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision from examining a mutual fund operated by a bank or thrift. Currently, they have limited authority to do such examinations. We are taking that away. 
   Section 111, another example, prohibits the Federal Reserve from examining the securities or insurance affiliate unless there is a ``reasonable cause to believe'' the affiliate is engaging in risky activity. Ask yourself, how do you reasonably believe such activity is taking place unless you have the opportunity and indeed the authority to at least go in and check periodically what is going on? 
   Many of these provisions might create a structure of regulation which is just too porous to withstand the kind of pressures that we see in the financial marketplace. It is reasonable to conclude how we got here. We have emphasized throughout this debate this notion of functional regulation, that securities should be regulated by the SEC, depositories should be regulated exclusively by banking regulators, and that a loose, overarching regulatory provision should be discharged by the Federal Reserve. 
   Setting up compartments with a loose umbrella invites the notion that something will go wrong, something will fall through the cracks. As we go through this process, the debate and the continued examination of this bill, we have to ask ourselves not only before the legislation is passed but if it is passed afterwards, are there any unintended loopholes that could be exploited, unfortunately, which would be detrimental to safety and soundness? 
   There is another provision which I think is important to point out. That is the notion that in the context of the insurance business, State insurance regulators basically have a veto over Federal Reserve authority to demand that an insurance affiliate 
   contribute to the State of a holding company. This is a reversal from the traditional authority and the traditional regulatory perspective of the Federal Reserve. 
   For years, since their active regulation of the Bank Holding Company Act, the doctrine of the Federal Reserve has been that the holding company is a source of strength to the underlying depository institution. That ``source of strength'' doctrine is, in part, repealed by this legislation, because within the context of an insurance company, and specifically the next great round of mergers will be between depository institutions and insurance companies--that is the example that Travelers and Citicorp established when these insurance companies started merging together with banks, big banks, big insurance companies--we are going to have for the first time in our financial history, a situation where an insurance regulator can say to the Chairman of the Fed, even though that depository institution is ailing mightily and my insurance company is very healthy, I'm not going to allow any transfer of funds from the insurance entity to the depository institution because I don't have to, one; and, two, I'm concerned about the long-term viability of the insurance entity, so I will not cooperate. 
   What that means is that rather than the present model where every subsidiary affiliate of a holding company contributes to the health of the deposit insurance, we have a situation where the taxpayer, through the insurance funds, will be bailing out a bank that very well might have a very healthy insurance affiliate. 
   These are some of the regulatory examples which I think have to continue to be watched, examined, and thought about. I hope as we go forward that we could engage the Fed in a constructive dialog with respect to their views on how we on a practical basis deal with some of the concerns I raised today. 
   We have the potential of passing legislation which would be terribly helpful to our financial community. I want to pass the legislation. Unless we resolve the issue of the Community Reinvestment Act, unless we resolve the issue of operating subsidiaries, unless we look more carefully and closely and make changes perhaps in some of the regulatory framework, this is not the legislation that ultimately can or should become law. 
   I yield my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to express my profound concern with several provisions in the Abraham ``lock box'' amendment pending before us here today. I share many of the objectives the sponsors of this amendment portend to support, such as preserving the Social Security Trust Fund, promoting fiscal responsibility and paying down the debt. However, I fear this amendment could potentially have dangerous and disastrous effects on our nation's economy and Social Security. 
   The Abraham ``lock box'' proposal establishes statutory annual, declining limits for debt held by the public over the next ten years, based on projections from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Proponents of the amendment contend that these statutory limits will force a greater degree of fiscal responsibility upon the federal government. In order to raise the debt limit, a 60-vote point of order in the Senate would be required. 
   On the surface, this legislation may appear to provide potential benefits to the American economy and government spending. However, there are several fundamental flaws to this approach, which is why I am unable to support the proposal. 
   First, the Abraham proposal relies upon CBO budget projections to derive the statutory public debt limits. While CBO budget projections are an insightful and beneficial tool for policymakers, they are in no way an exact measure of future budget levels. As any economist would tell you, there are too many uncontrolled factors that can come into play. By CBO's own admission, unanticipated developments in the economy, demographics, or other factors may alter the nations' budget landscape. 
   For instance, an assessment of CBO budget projections between fiscal years 1988 and 1998 found that projections were off by an average of 13 percent per year. Looking ahead to 2004, this margin of error would mean that CBO's current budget projections could be off by as much as $250 billion. Yet, under this proposal, these inaccurate projections would become the standard. 
   Second, the statutory debt limits proposed by the Abraham amendment could make the federal government's responsibility to meet daily financial obligations extremely difficult. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin has stated that debt limits may drastically hinder the Treasury's ability to cover near-term shortfalls in the government balance sheet. The government receives revenues and makes payments on a daily basis. Daily, weekly, or monthly swings in cash flows can exceed balances, and under the ``lock box'' scenario, debt limits as well. If the government has reached the debt limit, it would likely become necessary to temporarily suspend unemployment benefits, or other payments, until budget cuts or tax increases are implemented to make up the difference. 
   Third, arbitrary debt limits could exasperate economic downturns. The amendment includes a provision that its supporters claim would lift the debt limit during a recession, which is defined as two consecutive quarters where real economic growth is less than one percent. However, lags in economic reporting mean that data on GDP growth are generally not available until several months after an economic downturn has actually begun. 
   For example, the recession that started in July 1990 was not revealed through economic data until April 1991. When the economy slows, unemployment compensation and other outlays rise, while tax revenues slow or decline. As a result, debt limits could be breached more quickly. However, unless Congress musters 60 votes to breach the debt limit, cutting government expenditures or raising taxes would be required. These delays could push an already weak economy into a recession. 
   Fourth, effective measures are already in place to ensure fiscal restraint. Over the last ten years, pay-as-you go and discretionary spending caps have been highly successful in producing fiscal discipline without threatening budget cuts or tax increases. These enforcement mechanisms, which were enacted as part of the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990, have been key elements in maintaining fiscal discipline over the past decade. Supplementing these successful laws is unnecessary and may create greater volatility in our budget process. 
   Lastly, I would be remiss if I did not point out that the ``lock box'' proposal does nothing to stimulate meaningful Social Security reform, nor does it extend the solvency of the program. In fact, the amendment contains a clause that would allow money dedicated to the payment of Social Security benefits to be siphoned off for other purposes, like the creation of private accounts. It also completely ignores the solvency problems facing Medicare. 
   Mr. President, although the ``lock box'' amendment is seemingly well intended, if enacted, it could dramatically impact the federal government's ability to meet its financial obligations and react to economic downturns. Furthermore, it could exacerbate times of economic hardship and tie the hands of the federal government in meeting its financial commitments to the American people. Most importantly, the amendment does nothing to secure the solvency of Social Security and Medicare. I urge my colleagues to reject this potentially harmful amendment. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to commemorate the 84th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. 
   This weekend, members of Armenian communities around the world will gather together to remember the spring morning of April 24, 1915, when the Ottoman Empire and the successor Turkish nationalist regime began a brutal policy of deportation and murder. Over the next eight years, 1.5 million Armenians would be massacred at the hands of the Turks and another 500,000 would have their property confiscated and be driven from their homeland. 
   Despite having already undergone such terrible persecution and hardship, the people of the Armenian Republic still suffer today. The peace talks have regrettably made little progress toward the resolution of the Karabagh conflict. Turkey continues to blockade humanitarian aid to Armenia. 
   However, the Armenian people look hopefully to the future. Their quest for peace and democracy continues to inspire people around the world. On May 30th, Armenia will again hold democratic elections. Armenians who have emigrated to other countries, especially those in my home state of Rhode Island, bring their traditions with them. They enrich the culture and contribute much to the society of their new homelands. 
   Although each year's commemoration of the Armenian genocide is important, I believe this year's observance is particularly significant--because of the crisis in Kosovo. Each night the television shows images of hundreds of thousands of refugees forced from their homes and each morning the paper is filled with stories of innocent civilians robbed and killed. These stories and images are heartwrenching--but the people of Kosovo have not been abandoned. The nineteen nations of NATO are united in their resolve that another genocide will not be tolerated.  
   One of the reasons the world could not stand idly by watching events unfold in the Balkans is because of commemorations like the observance of the Armenian Genocide. We must stand as witnesses to protect those who are persecuted because they are different. We must remain vigilant as long as hate and intolerance exist in our world. 
   Menk panav chenk mornar. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, it is my pleasure to inform my colleagues that the U.S. Military Academy Class of 1958 is naming the debate room at Lincoln Hall, West Point, NY, in honor of their classmate, 2d Lt. George W.P. Walker. 
   George Walker was an outstanding soldier, scholar and leader. He graduated from the U.S. Military Academy No. 1 in his class. George Walker received many prestigious awards for his educational and military prowess. He was admired and respected by his classmates as a man of honor and a true friend. Tragically, 2d Lt. Walker died in an airplane accident in 1959 while he was en route to Oakland, CA, for an overseas assignment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Conference Report on the Education Flexibility Partnership Act. 
   I am particularly pleased that the Conference Report contains my amendment to ensure that parents have a strong voice in the Ed-Flex waiver process. My amendment requires states and school districts to provide public notice and comment opportunities to parents and other interested members of the community before requesting waiver authority or waivers. 
   As an added accountability measure to ensure that parents and communities across the nation have confidence in the waiver process, my amendment also requires states and school districts to submit these comments along with their application to the Secretary or the state as appropriate. 
   Such requirements provide parents an opportunity to play an active role in the waiver process, and, by doing so, empower them to help their children succeed in school. 
   I believe that it is extremely important for parents to be involved in their child's education. As the Center for Law and Education has noted, ``when parents are involved at school, their children not only go further, the schools become better for all children.'' 
   Moreover, the implications of waiver requests are broad. Input and participation by parents and other interested members of our communities can only lead to more effective use of any waivers. Indeed, parents are more likely to be receptive to the waivers and work to see that the goals intended by the waivers are achieved if they actually know about the waivers; are involved in shaping the waivers; and have a real stake in the waiver process. 
   With Ed-Flex, we have an opportunity to provide more flexibility to  enhance state and local education reform efforts. I am pleased that the Conference Report recognizes the need to balance that flexibility with accountability by containing provisions that I worked on closely with Senators KENNEDY and DODD to ensure that the increased flexibility provided to states and school districts is tied to strong accountability. 
   When we send scarce federal dollars to states and school districts, we need to hold them accountable for results. Indeed, too many of our children do not get the education they deserve. Without accountability, we will never reverse this situation. 
   Mr. President, I am also pleased that the bipartisan commitment we made last year to fund the class size reduction initiative is maintained in the Conference Report. Indeed, the Republican attempt to pit the needs of children with disabilities against the general student population is both counterproductive and destructive. 
   Lastly, I want to note that Ed-Flex alone is not going to turn around the education of our children. Ed-Flex is one of the easier and less complex education issues we may consider this year. Now it is time to begin the hard work of truly improving teacher quality, strengthening parental involvement, equipping our school libraries with up-to-date books, repairing and modernizing our schools, and reducing class size. These initiatives are the hallmarks of real education reform--not slogans about block grants and vouchers. 
   Mr. President, the issue of education is one of the greatest challenges facing our nation. There are no quick fixes. It is only through hard work and sensible reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act that we can begin to truly improve education. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to congratulate the Rhode Island Department of the Reserve Officers Association of the United States (RIROA) on the 75th Anniversary of its founding. 
   The Reserve Officers Association was established in 1922 to link together Reserves from each of the armed services. The fighting force of the 21st century is a joint force, yet Rhode Island's Reserves implemented this concept 75 years ago when the Army, Navy Reserve, and National Guard joined together to form the RIROA. 
   The purpose of the Reserve Officers Association is to support a military policy for the United States that will provide, promote, and develop the execution of adequate national security. The RIROA has dedicated itself to this purpose and to bringing all military services closer in a common bond. The RIROA is a leading proponent of developing strong Reserve forces in each of the uniformed services to work for the welfare of citizen soldiers in Rhode Island and the interests of the national security of the entire country.  
   The Reserves are essential members of the national security force, facing greater challenges than ever before. Today's military is leaner, yet the number of missions has steadily increased. Therefore, the services are relying more and more on reserve forces to carry out the task of protecting the U.S. and its principles. Reservists are not only an integral part of any mobilization overseas, but are increasingly on the front lines of protecting the home front from terrorist acts, information warfare, and attacks on our critical infrastructure. 
   With over 85,000 members nationwide, and over 600 members from Rhode Island, today's Reserves are a significant and vital part of the United States' military force. The United States military would not be the finest fighting force in the world without the commitment and professionalism of the Reserves, an integral part of the Total Force. 
   I commend the Reserves' commitment to the nation's defense, and I salute the dedicated members of the RIROA on this historic occasion.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to highlight the concerns of some of my constituents who are participating in an adult basic education program conducted by the ARC of Northern Rhode Island. 
   Earlier in this session, John Mullaly, on behalf of his classmates, wrote to me to express his concerns regarding the use of the word ``handicapped''. 
   Mr. President, individuals who live with disabilities are one of the nation's great untapped resources. They have much to contribute, and they deserve to be fully integrated into every aspect of society. I am proud that so many of my colleagues share this point of view and that 70 senators have joined in cosponsoring S. 331, the Work Incentives Improvement Act, legislation that allows individuals with disabilities to join the workforce while maintaining their health benefits under Medicare or Medicaid. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleague from Maine, Senator COLLINS, in offering this important amendment to express the Sense of the Senate that funding for need-based student financial aid programs should be increased. 
   The Republican budget proposal provides some welcome news when compared with past Republican budget proposals because it at least includes increased funding for elementary and secondary education. Indeed, it can be called much improved in contrast with past Republican proposals to eliminate the Department of Education. 
   However, I am deeply concerned that this funding increase may be financed by cutting critical programs like Head Start, Summer Jobs for Youth, and job training by up to 10% in FY2000, and 20% in the following years. 
   Moreover, this budget proposal assumes an increase for elementary and secondary education programs of $2.6 billion over a freeze. However, it only assumes a $2.4 billion overall increase for all education programs in fiscal year 2000, which means other vital education programs, like student financial aid programs, would have to be deeply cut or frozen in order to meet these assumptions. 
   It would be a shame to limit our ability to realize the reforms we just recently enacted as part of the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998 to enhance federal assistance to college students. That is why I have joined Senator COLLINS and others in offering this amendment. 
   Mr. President, this amendment simply urges increases in funding for need-based student financial aid programs. These programs include Pell Grants, the Federal Work Study Program, the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnership (LEAP) program, and TRIO.  
   I strongly support a greater investment in all of these important programs than is provided by the budget resolution. And, in particular, I have long been a champion of more robust funding for the LEAP program, a federal-state partnership that is essential to our efforts to help needy students attend and graduate from college. 
   I worked closely with Senator COLLINS on a successful amendment two years ago to save LEAP from elimination and on legislation to reform this program, which was included in the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998. These reforms seek to encourage states to increase their commitments to need-based student grant aid in exchange for increased flexibility to provide a broader array of higher education assistance to needy students. 
   We are currently working together to secure $75 million for LEAP in the Fiscal Year 2000 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill to trigger these reforms, and I urge my colleagues to join us in this important effort. 
   LEAP and the rest of the federal financial aid programs are critical to helping students achieve their higher education goals. 
   All higher education and student groups endorse the effort to increase funding for need-based student financial aid programs, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support our amendment in order to meet the commitment to higher education that we reaffirmed last fall by passing the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   Among the first casualties of this proposed budget will be the cities and rural communities of America. This budget would cut upwards to 78 percent of money devoted to community and regional development over the next 10 years. 
   My amendment is very straightforward. It would restore $88.7 billion over 10 years to bring up funding to the level proposed by the President. It would do so by taking a small portion of the projected tax cuts that are included in this budget. Without my amendment, we will see extreme reductions in community development block grants, the Economic Development Administration, the lead paint abatement program, the brownfields program, those programs that are essential to the cities and rural areas of this country. 
   We cannot abandon these communities. In fact, we cannot throw them, as this budget would, into financial chaos as they try to make up the difference with the property tax. The irony here is that these tax cuts in the budget will mean tax increases for many communities. It is supported by the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities. I hope Senators will support this measure and not abandon the cities and rural communities of America. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I move to waive the budget point of order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, today we celebrate the 178th Anniversary of the revolution that won Greece's independence from the Ottoman Empire. I am proud to join with forty-nine of my colleagues in sponsoring Senate Resolution 20 which designates today ``Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy.'' 
   The Greeks have been members of the community in Rhode Island for over one hundred years. Over 6,000 residents of the state claimed Greek heritage in the last Census. When the Greeks first came to the New England, they worked in factories and on the waterfront. The descendants of these first immigrants continue to prosper and enrich the Northeast and the rest of the country through their contributions to banking, medicine, the tourism industry, and the arts. 
   Edith Hamilton praised Greeks in this quote, ``to rejoice in life, to find the world beautiful and delightful to live in, was a mark of the Greek spirit which distinguished it from all that had gone before. It is a vital distinction.'' 
   I have been grateful for this spirit, energy, and support in the Rhode Island Greek community, and, for a very long time, I wished to visit Greece and Cyprus. This summer, I finally had that opportunity. On my trip, I had the pleasure of meeting Ambassador Burns and the U.S. Ambassador to Cyprus, Kenneth Brill. I also met and had candid conversations with Greece's Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Greek Defense Minister. In addition, I had the chance to tour the Green Line in Cyprus and speak with Dame Ann Hercus, the newly appointed Chief of the United Nations mission and General De Vagera, the force commander. 
   During my visit, I was impressed by the beauty of these countries and the hospitality of the people of Cyprus and Greece. However, I was also overwhelmed by the consequences of Turkey's 1974 invasion of Cyprus. The division of the island saps the economic vitality of a region rich in resources. The inability to move goods, people, or services between the two parts of the island stymies growth.  
   We must continue to work to resolve the Cyprus problem and reduce the tensions that exist between Greece and Turkey. When I was a member of the House of Representatives, I cosponsored numerous legislative initiatives to this end, and I will continue to advocate for such solutions as a Senator. 
   For today, let us celebrate the anniversary of Greek Independence, the richness of the Greek heritage and legacy of democracy that country gave to the world.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Less than 10--10 will be fine, but I will try to be quicker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Ten. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I thank the Senator from North Dakota for yielding time to speak about his amendment, the essence of which is protecting both the Social Security trust fund and also the Medicare fund. 
   One of the deficiencies in the Republican budget before us today is a failure to seize a historic opportunity to strengthen the Medicare program in the United States. I argue it is not just an opportunity, but it is a necessity. This is the program that benefits countless Americans, it is the program that is strongly supported by all Americans and it is the program that is facing serious challenges, serious demographic challenges, serious structural challenges. 
   One thing we can do at this moment to ensure that we have the opportunity to effectively address the issue of Medicare is to, in fact, invest dollars into the Medicare program today. But, regretfully, the Republican budget proposal, rather than doing that, would reserve budget surpluses for tax cuts, denying us the opportunity today to strengthen the Medicare system. 
   We have come a long way since 1993 when we were looking each year at soaring annual deficits in the order of $300 billion or more. Today, we are facing a unified surplus. With that unified surplus, we can do many things. But I believe one of the principal things we must do is strengthen both the Social Security system and the Medicare system. Senator CONRAD's amendment goes a long way toward achieving that goal. 
   Because of our prudent fiscal decisions over the last 6 years, we have seen a growing economy. We have seen growing prosperity. All of this is contributing to a future, we anticipate, of unified budget surpluses. Simply to step back now and say the work is done, now we can simply initiate tax cuts, misses the point. And that point is, we have to protect, we have to ensure the longevity, the stability, the predictability of the Social Security system and the Medicare system. 
   Now, of the two, the Medicare system faces the most immediate threat. By the year 2008, the trust funds are projected to become insolvent. This is a situation that requires immediate action. The most prudent thing to do is to reserve the resources to meet this impending situation of insolvency. There are, as I said before, millions of Americans who depend upon it, and not just those direct beneficiaries. 
   We have come--all of us have come--to a sense of appreciation and, in fact, consideration that if any of our relatives, our mothers, our fathers, our aunts or uncles, would be sick, they would have the Medicare system to fall back on. That allows young families the freedom to know that the health care of their parents will be protected. It gives them the freedom to concentrate on their own needs and the needs of their children. So this is not just a situation with respect to seniors; this is a situation that affects all Americans. 
   We tried in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to make changes to prolong longevity of the Medicare trust fund. Today, we are beginning to realize that some of these changes have created negative consequences. In fact, we are looking to make some adjustments so that we can guarantee quality health care for all of our seniors. 
   We have come to know that we have to make structural changes in Medicare, but it has to be done carefully and thoughtfully. We have also come to appreciate, I hope, that we must have the 
   resources available, because the health care needs of seniors are not going to go away. In fairness, and in keeping faith with seniors, we have to make sure those resources are available. 
   We will have to make hard choices about the structure of the Medicare program. But these choices will be infinitely more difficult if we take the path that is suggested by the budget resolution, that is, if we deny additional resources to the Medicare program. 
   I argue that in order to keep the faith of our seniors and our whole population, we have to make sure that we use the projected surplus to strengthen the Medicare system, and that the idea of using the surplus to finance tax cuts, while we face an impending crisis in Medicare, is the wrong policy. We have to, as I said before, ensure that we have the resources to confront the situation we face. And the situation we face, frankly, is one where the demands on Medicare will increase. We know that. Part of it is as a result of demographics. 
   Today, 39 million Americans are beneficiaries in the Medicare program. But by the year 2032, 78 million Americans will be eligible for Medicare. In terms of the sheer volume of new beneficiaries, we have to start reserving sufficient funds to meet their needs now. Not to do that, and to dissipate those funds through tax cuts, I think, might provide momentary benefits, but in the long run we will regret this. 
   We have to also recognize the fact that seniors will live longer, probably 6 years longer than they have in the past, so that the issues of health care for seniors will not get smaller in the future; they will become more and more important. 
   For all of these reasons, it is important today to recognize that we must maintain the strength and the resources for the Medicare program. That is why the amendments we are debating today, to a degree Senator CONRAD's, in some respects Senator KENNEDY's amendment, go to the simple truth: We have, through very difficult decisions over the last several years, reached a situation where we have a unified budget surplus. The question is whether we will take that surplus and strengthen Medicare, make it available for the next generation of Americans, and give us the opportunity to make structural changes, not out of dire necessity but because it will provide additional strength to the Medicare program. Or we will take these resources and dissipate them through tax cuts, which will not strengthen the Medicare system. In fact, when the system develops increased stresses and strains in the future, the budget resolution will leave us without the resources to step into the breach and do what we must do--keep the promise to our seniors, keep the promise to those who have relied upon and continue to rely upon Medicare. 
   So I urge careful consideration of these amendments. I hope, at the end of the day, we will have a budget that recognizes the opportunity and the necessity to invest in Medicare today so that it is there tomorrow for all of our citizens. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, parliamentary inquiry: Are we going back and forth to each side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I ask unanimous consent to lay the amendment aside. My amendment is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I withdraw my unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to lay aside the pending amendment to consider my amendment which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I have an amendment at the desk and ask it be called up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-7-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, this evening I rise to offer an amendment along with Senator SARBANES, Senator KERRY of Massachusetts, and Senator MURRAY, to restore funding for regional development programs to the levels that are set forth in the President's budget. Unfortunately, the budget resolution which we are considering today would reduce the funding for community and regional development programs by $88.7 billion over 10 years. This is compared to the President's budget request. 
   For example, in fiscal year 2000, spending for community and regional development programs would be reduced from $11.9 billion to $5.3 billion, a cut of 55 percent. In fiscal year 2001, spending for these programs would be reduced from $9.1 billion to $2.7 billion, a cut of 70 percent. 
   Then, between the years 2002 and 2009, spending reductions each year are approximately 78 percent below the President's request. In effect, this budget before us would eviscerate community and regional development programs. These programs are at the heart of our efforts to invest in America, in our cities, in our rural areas, and to do so in a way that gives maximum flexibility to local mayors, Governors, and community officials. 
   My amendment would increase spending for community development programs by $88.7 billion over these 10 years to essentially meet the President's projections. It would be offset by reducing the amount of tax cuts, currently $778 billion, contained in this budget resolution. My amendment not only restores funding for community and regional development, it will still leave approximately $700 billion for tax cuts. 
   I am deeply troubled by these cuts in community development programs because they will undermine the progress that our cities and rural areas have been making over the last several years. In fact, in many cities there is an urban renaissance. Where they are beginning to clean up blighted areas, they are beginning to attract new investment in the center cities. They are beginning to develop and sustain a mature culture and the arts. All of this is a result of investments through many of these programs which stand to lose out tremendously in this proposed budget resolution. 
   One of the indications of a reviving urban area in the United States is the fact that crime, violent crime particularly, has fallen more than 21 percent since 1993, and property crimes have dropped to the lowest point since 1973. I argue this is not simply the result of better police activity. This is because the cities are now able to reinvest and reinvigorate their communities, their neighbors. In so doing, they give positive incentives and positive hope for people. 
   All this is happening. And all of this will stop happening quite dramatically if we make such a devastating cut in community development and regional development programs. 
   Let me suggest the particular programs that would be affected by these massive cuts. First is the Community Development Block Grant Program; then there is the section 108 program loans for cities and communities; there is the Economic Development Administration and their grants to States and communities; there is FEMA disaster assistance, which is part of this program; then there is brownfield redevelopment programs, which help aid the remediation of environmentally troubled areas so they can be redeveloped for use by cities and communities; and then there is the lead hazard reduction grants, which are a critical problem in  many parts of this country, particularly urban areas; then there is the community development financial institutions fund; the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation; and the Rural Community Advancement Program. All of these programs would see devastating cuts. 
   Let me for a moment talk about some of the particular programs that are subject to this very threatening budget resolution. First is the Community Development Block Grant Program. We are all familiar with this program. It provides grants to States and to communities on a formula basis, the type of programmatic initiatives for new housing and community development. 
   One of the virtues of this program, one of the reasons it is embraced by both sides of the aisle, conceptually, is the fact that it gives flexibility to the States and to the cities to decide how they want to use these funds. It is not a mandate from Washington. It is not a categorical program that makes them jump through all sorts of hoops. It gives them the flexibility to meet the demands that they deem most critical. 
   These funds have been used to reconstruct and rehabilitate housing and provide homeownership assistance and opportunity. In fact, between 1994 and 1996, over 640,000 housing units have been rehabilitated or constructed with CDBG funds--over 640,000 housing units. These are housing units typically for low-income Americans, for seniors, for people with disabilities. Without this type of investment, I daresay there would not be a lot of construction, particularly in some of the older neighborhoods in our cities and in rural areas. With these funds, we have been able to stimulate the kinds of construction and renovation and renewal that are so essential to the fabric of our communities. 
   These funds were also used to provide services related to the Welfare-to-Work Program. They are used to help assist in terms of drug suppression, to aid people with drug problems; child care monies are used and involved here; crime prevention and education--all of these programs would be subject to severe cuts. 
   They also assist tremendously community-based organizations, those organizations in rural areas and urban neighborhoods that are doing the job of trying to give people hope and opportunity and also leveraging private dollars to make sure that what we do has effect, not just here in Washington but on the streets of every city and every rural area of this country. 
   This program has many manifestations. In my home State of Rhode Island, in Bristol, they used CDBG money to fund the acquisition of basic medical examination equipment, to set up a clinic and a senior housing facility, providing better health care and doing it in a way which adds to the quality of life for these seniors. 
   In the State of New Mexico, they boast a new state-of-the-art facility to train students for jobs in high tech. This facility was funded with $600,000 in CDBG money. Again, it illustrates how flexible and useful these funds are, because they have been used by local communities to assist local training programs to meet local demands for certain types of employees. It is a very, very valuable program. 
   In South Carolina, CDBG funds were used for 27 economic development projects in rural areas, including such things as bringing water and sewer systems to communities that desperately needed them. Last year, approximately 4,000 communities throughout this country benefited from $4.6 billion in CDBG funding. Indeed, this funding alone leverages additional private investment. In fact, it has been estimated that for every $1 of CDBG money, there is $3 of private investment. As a result, last year, reasonably and, I think, conservatively, we estimate that the CDBG Program leveraged an additional $18.4 billion in private funds. 
   It also creates jobs, because when you invest in cities, when you invest in rural areas, when you do it in conjunction with other Federal programs, other State programs, you can create jobs. In fact, it has been estimated that in 1996, CDBG was responsible for creating about 133,000 jobs. 
   In view of all of this tremendous productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness, it seems to me remarkable and counterintuitive, indeed, that we would be cutting this program by about 78 percent, effectively rendering it useless. 
   There is another program that should be considered, too. That is the section 108 program. The section 108 program has been very critical to many urban areas in this country because what it does is, it allows cities to leverage their annual CDBG funds to borrow additional monies to increase the amount of investment dollars they have on hand for housing rehabilitation, for economic development, for public works projects. Indeed, it allows specifically a city 
   or a community to take their CDBG allotment and leverage that for five times more dollars through this loan program. Securing their borrowing are the annual proceeds of their CDBG allocation. 
   I raise the question: What is going to happen to these communities if we slash this funding dramatically? I suggest that their financing situation would be critical. They would either have to find some other way to secure these loans, or they would have to immediately pay off these loans or they would be in default. This would be a staggering blow to many communities. Ultimately, what it would do, together with the cuts in the overall CDBG Program, it would drive up property taxes in many cities and rural areas. 
   The irony here is that we are using billions of dollars to cut Federal taxes, with the idea of providing tax relief, which, I think, in a way could drive up taxes in certain communities. In fact, we all know the property tax is much more regressive than income tax, than the Federal tax. We could have the unintended consequences, for many people throughout this country, of making their tax situation worse, depriving the cities of the opportunity to maintain a tax base, to stabilize it, and to attract new business, to attract new investment because of a stable tax base. This is absolutely bad policy, and it should be rejected. 
   Let us talk about another program that is subject to these draconian cuts. That is the Economic Development Administration. This agency provides valuable assistance, again, to States and communities so they can do projects which will accelerate their economic growth and create more jobs. In my home State of Rhode Island, we work closely with the EDA to provide funds to help us make the final cleanup and transition of a former Navy base, Quonset Point, Davisville, on Narragansett Bay, so they can be developed for industrial expansion. Without EDA grants to do things like extending sewer lines, taking down an obsolete water tower, the State would not be in a position, as it is today, to offer that property for economic development. 
   Again, this is a program which goes right to the direct needs of cities to create jobs and to invest in their communities and States and to do these types of investments. It would be reduced dramatically. 
   Brownfield redevelopment: We have brownfield redevelopment that is absolutely necessary for the urban areas of this country. It is necessary because we have areas that need environmental remediation, not only to make them more aesthetically pleasing but also to provide the opportunity for reinvestment, redevelopment for jobs; again, to strengthen the urban tax base and to do so in a way that creates jobs, increases the tax base, and also counteracts what is a growing problem everywhere, increasing urban sprawl. If we can revitalize and make attractive again parcels in center cities for commercial expansion, we will lessen the pressure on suburban areas. This, too, can be done and has to be done in conjunction with many things. One of them is the Brownfield Grant Program. That, too, is on the chopping block. 
   Lead hazard reduction grants: In my home State of Rhode Island, we have a major hazard with lead paint and children, a major public health problem, a public health problem that is one I think we are embarrassed to admit, but it is there. It is there particularly in older communities, not just in urban areas but older rural communities. 
   Most of the paint that was created years ago had a lead base. It was put up everywhere. Kids now are exposed to that paint and exposed to other sources of lead. It has been estimated that nearly 5 percent of American children, age 1 to 5, approximately 1 million  children, suffer from lead paint poisoning. That is an outrage in this country. 
   Our programs to combat it, to reduce it, would be subject to severe limitations, because HUD's Office of Lead Hazard Control would not have the resources--the meager resources, I might add--today that they are using to try to help communities reduce the lead hazard throughout this country. 
   Now, these are just a sample of the programs that would be eviscerated by this proposed budget resolution, that would be reduced over the next 10 years, dramatically, would be rendered perhaps ineffectual and totally without purpose in many instances. That is why I think we have to restore these funds and do so by taking funds away from the proposed tax cuts that are embedded within this budget resolution. 
   There will be some procedural arguments, I am sure, raised about my amendment, perhaps budget points of order, but really I think what we have to consider here is the substance. We cannot afford to stop investing in our cities and our rural areas. This budget does precisely that. It says to America's cities and America's rural areas: We are no longer going to invest in you; you are on your own; good luck; but what we are going to do is reduce taxes, Federal taxes. 
   I don't think we should abandon our cities and our rural areas. Certainly my amendment could accommodate both--a tax cut, together with the continued investment in the rural areas of America and also in our urban centers. 
   I feel compelled to restore these cuts. I feel that the substance of this amendment should triumph over procedural rules that might be imposed against it. As we go forward, I hope that others will feel the same way, too, because, frankly, we are charting a course with this budget resolution that would, I think, lead to, if not the ruin of our cities and rural areas, certainly it would lead to the lack of progress that we have seen over the last several years. 
   I hope when this amendment is considered that it will be supported as a way in which we can send clearly a signal to all of our cities and to our rural areas: We will not abandon you; we will continue to support you; we will continue to share with you resources that you may use in your wisdom to improve the quality of life of your cities, of your rural areas and, in so doing, improve the quality of life of this great country. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. CRAPO addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to speak briefly about an amendment regarding OSHA inspections of small farms, which I was prepared to offer to S. 544, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. To expedite the consideration of this emergency legislation, I withdrew my amendment, but I want my colleagues to know that I will continue to press this issue. 
   As other Senators may know, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, by statute, can enforce health and safety rules and investigate accidents on farms or businesses of any size. 
   However, a rider prohibiting OSHA from expending funds to carry out its statutory duty with respect to small farms has been attached to Department of Labor appropriations bills for the past several years. Small farms are those that employ ten or fewer workers and do not maintain a camp for temporary employees. 
   I want to emphasize that this prohibition extends even to the investigation of fatal, work-related accidents. I am not speaking of malicious acts leading to deaths on the job--law enforcement authorities are capable of addressing those circumstances. I am speaking of deaths caused by preventable health and safety hazards--hazards that no agency other than OSHA has the capacity to address. 
   Since the death of a sixteen-year-old Rhode Islander in an accident on a small farm in 1997, I have worked to address this issue. 
   Mr. President, it is heartbreaking for a parent to send a child off to a summer job only to see him die in an accident, and it is infuriating for these parents to wonder whether other youngsters now working on that job are safe. 
   I am sensitive to the concerns that some Senators will have about protecting the interests of family farms. That is why I have attempted to only moderately amend the current rider. Indeed, my amendment only allows OSHA access to small farms if there is a death, and only for investigation, not punitive action. 
   I have advanced this proposal in the hope of disseminating information about the causes of fatalities in order to prevent repeat tragedies and to bring a sense of closure to families who lose a loved one. 
   When I raised this issue during the markup of the Safety Advancement for Employees (SAFE) Act in the Labor and Human Resources Committee during the last Congress, several of my colleagues expressed a willingness to work with me on this issue. Regrettably, there is little the authorizing committee can do, because the problem stems from an appropriations rider, and an appropriations bill is where a correction should be made. 
   Mr. President, agriculture is one of the most hazardous industries in the United States today. We should take at least this minimal step to ensure the safety of agricultural employees. 
   Last Fall, the National Research Council (NRC), an arm of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), issued a report entitled Protecting Youth at Work. Among its recommendations was the following related to small farm safety:  
   To ensure the equal protection of children and adolescents from health and safety hazards in agriculture, Congress should undertake an examination of the effects and feasibility of extending all relevant Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations to agricultural workers, including subjecting small farms to the same level of OSHA enforcement as that applied to other small businesses.  
   Mr. President, it is the opinion of the NAS panel that small farms should be subject to the same level of enforcement as all other small businesses. In comparison to this recommendation, my proposed amendment is moderate, because, again, my amendment only allows an OSHA inspection on a small farm following a fatal accident. The inspection could not result in fines or any other OSHA enforcement. 
   During consideration of the SAFE Act in the 105th Congress, the Labor Committee voted for a provision requiring an NAS peer review of all new OSHA standards. Today, we have a report from the NAS making recommendations on OSHA enforcement on small farms. I hope that colleagues will keep that in mind and that they will remember that my amendment is not as extensive as the NAS recommendation. 
   Mr. President, some have criticized my amendment as unfair to small farm owners. I am mystified by their argument. The only small farms to be impacted would be those where an employee dies in a work related accident. Then, the only imposition the business would face would be an investigation: no fines, no enforcement, and no regulation. If information could be disseminated to prevent just one of the 500 deaths that occur annually in the agriculture industry, I believe this minor  inconvenience would be worth it. I know my constituents who lost their son feel that way, and I would venture to guess that many other families would feel that way too. 
   Mr. President, I want to thank Senator SPECTER, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, for his good faith efforts to address this issue. His commitment to continue working with me was a major reason for my decision not to proceed my amendment on the Supplemental Appropriations bill. I look forward to working with the Senator from Pennsylvania and other concerned Senators in the months ahead.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Pennsylvania for yielding the time, and I also commend him and Senator HARKIN for their amendment to this supplemental bill. They have done something that I think is incredibly important, and that is to provide some emphasis on smoking cessation and also public health in the use of the funds from the tobacco settlements that the States are beginning to receive. 
   The amendment by Senator SPECTER and Senator HARKIN strikes a very reasonable balance between the desires of the Governors to use these funds and also the willingness of the Federal Government to forgo its share of the tobacco settlement, and also the need to ensure that we do have in place significant tobacco prevention activities, as well as being able to meet other public health priorities. This amendment reserves 25 percent of the overall settlement to these priorities--smoking cessation and public health--and allows 75 percent of the funds to be spent at the discretion of the States. I think this is an appropriate way to deal with the proceeds of the tobacco settlement. 
   When we consider the fact that the basis of these claims rested upon Medicaid spending by the States, and we also consider the significant contribution the Federal Government makes to the Medicaid Program, it is not unrealistic--in fact, it is entirely appropriate--that we would be able to, and should be able to, lay out some broad guidelines as to the use of a small portion of the settlement funds. I can't think of any more appropriate topic of concern at every level of government than the reduction of smoking in this society. 
   Let's step back a minute. This process of suing the tobacco companies, this process that led to the settlements, is not about getting some money for new highways or new types of programs at the State level. It started with the realization 
   that smoking is the most dangerous public health problem in this country and we have to take concerted steps to do that. The suits resulted in a settlement, financially, but it won't result in the effective eradication, elimination, or reduction of smoking unless we apply those proceeds to smoking cessation programs and other public health initiatives that are critical to the health and welfare of this country. 
   We know that each day more than 3,000 young people become regular smokers. We also know that 90 percent of those who are long-term smokers began before they were 18 years old. So there is a critical need for more and more efforts particularly targeted at youngsters to ensure that they do not start the habit of smoking, and by requiring a certain portion, a rather small portion, of the proceeds of these settlements to that end is, again, not only sensible but it is compelled by the crisis we face in the public health area of smoking in the United States. 
   One of the other things that we must also recognize is that this settlement represents a concession, an acknowledgement by the tobacco industry that their marketing practices were sinister, that they targeted young people, and that, in fact, their product causes disease and death. And in that context we have to respond with some of these funds to recognize the public health impact of smoking overall. On both the law and the logic, it seems to me entirely appropriate that this amendment should not only be debated but passed. 
   I think we have to recognize, too, that what the amendment proposes is not some type of grandiose Federal program. It simply directs the Governors and the legislatures in their own way, form, and fashion to use these funds for very broad programmatic initiatives in public health which encompass such things as smoking cessation. 
   So this is not an overwhelming usurpation of State and local prerogatives by the Federal Government; it is a common way to deal with problems that got us here in the first place, the fact that smoking, particularly youthful smoking, is one of the major public health crises in this country. 
   I believe Senator SPECTER and Senator HARKIN have balanced and complemented the way in which States are using these funds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Their efforts are complementing what States are doing. Our Lieutenant Governor, Bernard Jackvony, is proposing this initiative. 
   I hope we can all stand behind this amendment, and I thank the Senator for yielding me time. 
   Mrs. HUTCHISON addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, prior to making comments about the senior Senator from Nebraska, I yield 1 minute to the Senator from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, today is one of those rare moments on the floor of the Senate that we can, with respect and reverence and, indeed, humility, salute a true American hero, Senator BOB KERREY. 
   Senator KERREY is a man of great courage. That is obvious from his accomplishments, not just as a SEAL in Vietnam, but as a public figure for many, many years. He is also a patriot, someone who loves this country deeply and sincerely and fervently. It is this patriotism which caused him to join the U.S. Navy, although I suspect if you asked him back then, he would have made some type of joke about his joining the Navy and joining the SEALS. But in his heart, it was because of his profound love for his country and his dedication to his future. 
   Then I suspect also that in the course of his training, he began to realize that he had been given the most profound privilege any American can be given, and that is the opportunity to lead American fighting men. That privilege also implies a sacred trust, a commitment to do all you can to lead your troops with both courage and sound judgment. 
   He was leading his SEALs that night 30 years ago. He had brought them to a dangerous place, and he was bound and determined, at the risk of his own life, to bring them all back. He fought with great valor. He never lost faith. He always insisted that what he would do would be in the best interests of his men. 
   For him, the world then was very simple: his mission, his men, and then, and only then, himself. He was and is a hero. BOB KERREY saw war in all its brutality, in all its confusion, in all its senselessness, but he never surrendered his heart and his spirit to that brutality. 
   He never let it harden his heart or cloud his judgment. 
   He came back from a war committed to continue to serve his Nation. He remains an idealist, and more importantly an idealist without illusions. And again in his acerbic way he would deny all this. But it is true. 
   He still believes deeply in his country. He still understands that it is necessary to lead. He still understands and keeps faith with those he led and those, sadly, he left behind. He is somebody of whom we are all tremendously proud. And there is something else about BOB KERREY which might explain how he could lead men successfully on virtually impossible missions, because he has that kind of talent to walk into a room when everyone else is depressed, feeling oppressed, feeling without hope, and the combination of his energy and his confidence and that glint in his eye convince people they should follow him, even if the task appears impossible. 
   Fortunately for us, he has brought these great skills to the U.S. Senate. He continues to serve his country. He continues to take the tough missions--not the milk runs but the hard missions. We all appreciate his courage and his valor. 
   We all have many personal anecdotes. Let me just share one. I admired BOB KERREY long before I ever got to the U.S. Senate. I met him several times before, but the first time I was really sort of speechless was on Inauguration Day in 1996, where I showed up outside there in the corridor a few feet away from here, ready to meet with my new colleagues in the U.S. Senate, and for the first time in my life, within a step away, I actually saw someone wearing the Medal of Honor. I looked at Senator KERREY as a star-struck teenager would look at a great hero. And, in fact, that was one of the most rewarding and impressive moments of that very impressive day. 
   But I will recall one other final anecdote. BOB and I were together in Nantucket a few years ago. We got up early one morning to go running. Now, I must confess, I thought I might have an advantage running against Senator KERREY. After all, I am younger. But at about the 3-mile mark, when he turned around and said, ``got to go'' and sped away, I felt a little chagrined. My youth and my other talents could not keep up with this gentleman.  
   He honors us with his presence. He has honored us with his service. We treasure him. We respect him. And today we are giving him his due. 
   Senator KERREY, thank you for your service to this Nation. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Madam President, first, as a procedural matter, I ask unanimous consent that Anthony Blaylock, a defense fellow working in Senator DORGAN's office, be granted the privilege of the floor during debate on S. 257. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Madam President, we are here today debating an issue of fundamental importance to the United States and to the world community, and that is whether or not we will adopt a resolution of this Senate to proceed with a national missile defense as soon as it is technologically possible. 
   As many of my colleagues have indicated, I believe there is strong recognition of the need for the careful deployment of a national missile defense because we are at a historical crossroads. 
   First, there have been technological advances by rogue states which, for the first time, allow them in the near future to be able to launch intercontinental ballistic missiles that would strike the territory of the United States. That, in and 
   of itself, has focused our attention, our resolve, and our commitment to begin accelerated development and, one would hope, the eventual deployment of a national missile defense. 
   But the issue before us today is whether this legislation, S. 257, will materially aid that effort without unduly complicating our ability, first, to defend the United States and, second, to maintain the regime of deterrence that has lasted throughout the cold war and has avoided to date, and we hope indefinitely, the use of nuclear weapons in the world. 
   I mentioned that we are at a historical crossroads, the first element of which is the fact that rogue nations can, in fact, begin to launch in the near future intercontinental ballistic missiles. But the second aspect of this historical crossroads is the fact that we have been maintaining over decades a strategic balance which always contemplated limits on offensive capability and which has led to treaties between ourselves and the former Soviet Union, and now Russia, with respect to limitations on offensive weapons. Complementing that has been, since 1972, the limitation on antiballistic missile systems. 
   Sometimes I think we take this balance for granted. We assume that is the way it always will be because it exists today. But we are seeing pressure on this balance. First and most obviously, because of the collapse of the Soviet Union and the constrained position of Russia, we are seeing some operational wearing around the edges in terms of their ability to maintain the same type of controls that they had at the height of the cold war. 
   We are also seeing a situation where operationally they might, regretfully, be a little bit quicker on the draw, since they do not have the same type of panoply of long-term observation or radars that they had or those that they have are beginning to deteriorate. 
   The point I want to make with respect to strategic balance is that this is not something automatically that comes into play, it is something that has to be sustained and maintained, and when we look at legislation like the bill before us, we have to seriously ask the question, Will this aid the maintenance of this strategic balance, or will it give incentives to act unilaterally? That is a serious question which I think we have to address. 
   There is a second factor with respect to the historical crossroads, and that is, for the first time in recent memory, Russia, as the legatee of the Soviet Union, is not able to match dollar for dollar, ruble for dollar, if you will, developments that we, in fact, might put in place. Unlike the cold war, where they could accelerate their offensive missile capability by putting out more launches if we did something, they cannot do that too easily. Nor could they easily copy an extensive national missile defense if we put it in place. Again, this is another strategic aspect that has to be considered when we consider this legislation. 
   All of these issues together suggest a few things. First, we have to seriously address the issue of the rogue state with intercontinental ballistic missiles, but, just as seriously, we have to be concerned about doing something that might destabilize the overall arms control regime in the world. What we want to avoid is the temptation for states with nuclear weapons and a capacity for intercontinental-range launches to start taking unilateral actions which may imperil us just as much as the development of missiles by a rogue state. 
   Having said that, I think we can look at the situations which we potentially are trying to cover with this national missile defense and pose two questions which I think are at the heart of our debate. 
   First of all, we are really focused at this juncture, with respect to this legislation, on what is called the simple case, as the Ballistic Missile Defense Office will describe it, the C-1 situation: A few simple ICBMs, no sophisticated countermeasures. In that context, we are proposing to create a system to deter that threat and also, in some respects, to undermine or simply, hopefully, to modify, through mutual assent, the arms control regime in the ABM Treaty. That is just one situation. 
   The second situation is what they call C-2. That is not just some simple ICBMs but a few advanced ICBMs--those having, for example, multiple independent reentry vehicles and some more sophisticated countermeasures. 
   Finally, the category of many sophisticated reentry vehicles, many with  independently targeted warheads, and also with sophisticated countermeasures. 
   For this latter category we have to ask ourselves, is that technologically possible, national missile defense scoped and designed for the first simple threat going to meet what might evolve into the more complicated threat? That is a technological question. I think that is a question that gives us some pause in the sense of rushing into this, this declaration that we are going to do it now and we are going to do it with respect to the rogue nation threat. 
   Again, I think we have to ask two basic questions: First, will this first technologically possible solution be the best solution, not just to our short-run dilemma with respect to potential missile development in North Korea or Iran but over time as these systems may well evolve from a simple missile threat to a very sophisticated missile threat? Then second, we have to ask ourselves, will we build a system designed to counter this simple threat, the rogue threat, and cause, unwittingly, the precipitation of a much more sophisticated threat--to cause, unwittingly, powers like Russia, that have the capacity to put MIRVs on top of their launchers, to have, through strained resources and through frayed nerves, perhaps the potential to shoot a little quicker than they did in the cold war? That, I think, would be a tremendous misstep in maintaining our strategic balance. 
   For all these reasons, I suggest that we must move with caution--with deliberation but with caution. I think we have to move not with some single-factor analysis, simply ``technologically possible,'' but with a multifaceted analysis which I hope would undergird all our decisions with respect to momentous decisions and costly decisions. We have to consider cost. We have to consider the evolution of the threat. We have to consider our diplomatic relationships and the fact that we have maintained this nuclear balance through mutual decisions. 
   First we maintained it through the policy of mutual assured destruction. We built enough offensive weapons so that no enemy thought they could conduct a successful first strike. And then we moved down a much more promising road by talking about limiting offensive weapons and limiting defensive weapons through diplomacy. 
   The rejection of this mutuality would be a casualty which I do not think any of us would like to see. So I think we have to be very, very careful. And if we need an anecdote to suggest the care which we must devote to this exercise, I think it could be seen from a story I recently read in the Washington Post about an incident that took place on September 26, 1983, where a Russian lieutenant colonel was sitting in his bunker and suddenly all the lights went on that said ``start.'' And what the ``start'' meant was to start a nuclear retaliation round. 
   But because of that officer's judgment, in the environment of that time of 1983, an environment in which the thought was that a nuclear attack by the United States would not be possible --the fact that there was no effective ABM system providing national defense--the fact that the operative motivation was not ordering a counterstrike but waiting for further information, that could be changed by what we do in the next several months, particularly, I think, if we do not make a good-faith effort to modify, through negotiation and through mutuality, the ABM Treaty. 
   We could have a situation in which, through an error of software, an error of misperception, instead of waiting the extra second, a lieutenant colonel in the Russian rocket forces could decide that this very well could be an active launch by the United States and that his only recourse is to launch a retaliatory strike. 
   So we have to be careful. I believe that such care would lead us, I hope, to consider legislation that does not just talk about technological possibility but talks about a range of things, including, we hope, a mutual adjustment of the ABM Treaty. 
   Missile defense is a situation, a topic, that has followed us since 1940, when we first became aware that Germany was developing intercontinental ballistic missiles. It has followed us through my entire life, and it will go on, we hope, without a dramatic conclusion, for as long as we can foresee. We have been able to manage these issues, and each administration has 
   taken them seriously, and the Clinton administration is no stranger to the seriousness of this endeavor. 
   We have also seen changes in terms of programs, in terms of budget. Just a few years ago, in the Persian Gulf we discovered that there was a real threat to our theater forces, our forces in the field, and we began actively upgrading our theater missile defense, a program which we also bought and which we consider to be vital to the operational effectiveness of our forces around the world. 
   In 1996, the administration announced that they were moving forward with respect to national missile defense with their 3+3 approach. That would be 3 years devoted to research and development, a deployment decision due in June of 2000, and then, if required, the deployment would take place within the next 3 years. All of this, of course, supposed and presumed that there would be active discussion with Russia and others with respect to the ABM Treaty. 
   We have devoted not only conceptual energy to this project, we have also devoted dollars. We have increased the administration's proposal for efforts through fiscal year 2005 to the order of $10.5 billion. This is not a project that is languishing without financial support and financial resources. 
   In short, in sum, both the Congress and the administration agree on the importance of missile defense, of providing the resources to do that, and are hoping that we can in fact develop a technologically feasible, cost-effective system that will be appropriate to our needs and also, hopefully, will be agreed upon by the world community as a necessary part of our defense. 
   I have mentioned before what I think some of the limitations are of the approach that we are debating today with respect to S. 257. Principally, it is the sole reliance upon one criterion, and that is, ``technologically possible.'' 
   There are other parameters that we have to look at. 
   The threat: Again, today we are looking at a very limited threat, that C-1 threat, a rogue nation with a simple IBM, without any countermeasures. But that threat quickly will mature to something else. It does not take too much to incorporate countermeasures on our reentry vehicle. And once we do that, we might be into a configuration of national defense which does not fit that neat picture of what is technologically possible right now. 
   Of course, we have to look at cost. And it is not just an issue of cost in and of itself, it is the classic issue of opportunity cost. To develop this system immediately might preclude us from taking other steps which are just as important with respect to our defense, with respect to our missile defense, with respect to other aspects of our defense policy. 
   And then we certainly, I think, have to look at the effect on arms control agreements. 
   Consideration of these factors I think would mitigate against unconstrained, unconditional support for S. 257 and would suggest that we would amend this measure and adopt a more comprehensive and a more realistic approach to the decision matrix we face when it comes to national missile defense. 
   Just briefly, there is a threat out there; no one is denying that. The administration is not denying it. No one in this body is denying it. 
   We have seen just recently, in May of 1998, India and Pakistan conduct nuclear tests. 
   We have also been the beneficiaries of the Rumsfeld Commission report that anticipates the ability of a rogue nation to have an intercontinental capability by the year 2010. 
   Then, on July 22, 1998, Iran test fired an intermediate-range ballistic missile capable of hitting most of the Middle East. 
   Then, finally, perhaps most chillingly, on August 31, 1998, North Korea launched a Taepo Dong 1 missile that was far more advanced than we thought capable at that time. 
   These threats are serious. They are not taken lightly. 
   It is because of these threats that we are moving and committing dollars for the development of a national missile defense system. As General Shelton, our Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of  Staff, pointed out in ``Seapower'' magazine:  
   There are other serious threats out there in addition to that posed by ballistic missiles. We know, for example, that there are adversaries with chemical and biological weapons that can attack the United States today. They could do it with a briefcase--by infiltrating our territory across our shores or through our airports.  
   Essentially, it raises the issue that if we, in a break-neck race to just deploy our first technologically possible system, all of these resources--are we missing out on providing effective deterrence and defense for these other approaches? I think we raise that issue with respect to S. 257. 
   Now, the other aspect of this is we don't want to buy a system with billions of dollars that will work for a couple of years and then be obsolete. We don't want to go through the trouble of renegotiating a treaty--or perhaps the worst case, of walking away from a treaty for a system that is just not going to work. 
   William Perry, our former Secretary of Defense, put it well when he said:  
   Think of this problem in terms of buying a personal computer for college. If you had ordered your computer as a high-school sophomore it would have been obsolete by the time you started college. It would lack the capabilities you now need and would be impossible, or prohibitively expensive, to update.  
   In many respects, that is the same type of intellectual dilemma we face today. Putting a system in the field because it is technologically possible might not be the best approach. That is the only criterion in S. 257. 
   We know this is also a very difficult technical problem, essentially because we are using ``kill'' vehicles that are target upon target, using kinetic energy--i.e. impact. It is like a bullet hitting a bullet. That is a tough problem. In fact, we have had very few successes in the experiments we have tried to run to date. So few, in fact, a Pentagon review panel has called the program to date a ``rush to failure.'' We don't want to rush to failure. We want ``progress to deployment'' of a system that works for us, defends the country and maintains our strength--not just in the small case of a rogue nation but in the larger case of international nuclear stability. 
   Now, S. 257 will require us to deploy this system as long as it is technologically possible. Again, one could ask, what does that mean? Is that the first step that succeeds? Is it a series of two or three tests to succeed in any case? That type of analysis alone is not, I think, the optimal way to approach this issue. 
   As I mentioned before, we have to consider costs. Between 1984 and 1994, the Congressional Research Service estimated that the Pentagon spent $70.7 billion on ballistic missile defense activities, yet no system was deployed. I hope valuable information was gained and research could be applied to the ongoing projects, but $70 billion was spent in a decade without the breakthrough deployment, the breakthrough technology of a system. Again, we have to consider costs. 
   Just the simple preparation of one site for a national missile defense would range between $6 and $13 billion. These costs would be justified in many respects by the threat if we are confident or more confident that the system we are putting in place would be something that could evolve to the greater threats in the future and is something that really does provide comprehensive protections to the United States--not just today but in the future. This legislation does not call for such a comprehensive measure in which to determine whether to deploy or not to deploy. 
   As mentioned before, every dollar we spend on national missile defense is important, but there are some other measures of defense which are equally important and which may find themselves shortchanged if we have this rush for deployment as soon as we are technologically possible. Again, we have to consider, I think, this issue in broader terms beyond just technological possibility. 
   Then we have to consider, as I have mentioned, the effect of arms control agreements. Since 1940, we have been wrestling with this issue of how to defend the United States against intercontinental ballistic missiles. We tried to develop defense mechanisms. We have had systems in place. We were developing in the 1970s and the late 1960s a central system. The central system turned into Safeguard and Safeguard was moving forward, but at the height of the cold war at a time when the tensions between ourselves and the Soviet Union were extremely pronounced, President Nixon negotiated and ultimately agreed to an antiballistic missile treaty. In fact, this treaty limited what was technically possible. The Safeguard system was going in place to protect our ICBM fields. It was technically possible, it was 
   thought then that we would be more secure if we limited the deployment of ballistic missile systems--mutually limited--amongst ourselves and the Soviet Union. That decision was made. That decision has stood the test of time to date. 
   The ABM Treaty has been questioned over time, but it has provided us a situation where we have a more stable balance between ourselves, certainly, and at one time the Soviet Union, and now Russia. 
   I think, however, recognizing the rise of these rogue states with their missile capability, it is appropriate to look at ABM. It is appropriate to go back and attempt to modify the treaty--modify it not just in terms of the simple case, the C-1 case, but look at it in terms of modifications that will carry us through the medium and the long run for systems that very well may not be technically possible today or in 2 years but would be extremely important, indeed perhaps necessary, in 5 to 10 years. We could do this if we negotiate with the Russians. 
   We have to ask ourselves what kind of message S. 257 would send, basically saying we are going to deploy this as soon as we think it works, without any mention of negotiation of ABM. I don't think it sends the right message. It sends the message at a time when the Soviet missile force has been transferred to the Russians. We know it is fraying on the edges in terms of command control, in terms of its replacement, in terms of its technological sophistication. 
   Again, do we really want to change what was the operative rule in the cold war--that a missile strike by the United States, a first strike; or by Russia or the Soviet Union--would be unlikely if not impossible? That is the type of mindset which gave a lieutenant colonel in the Russian rocket forces the gut feeling to disregard all the warnings on his computer and on the screen to say, ``This can't be right; it would be reckless and foolish for the United States to launch five or so missiles against us.'' We certainly don't want a situation where some lieutenant colonel says, ``They have an ABM system which they put in unilaterally without our consent, over our opposition. You know what? Maybe these five missiles are more than a mistake on my computer.'' 
   We have to very serious about this. I know we are all serious, but I suggest, and I think Senator LEVIN would suggest later, that this legislation could benefit mightily from the amendments that at least acknowledge the importance of negotiation, the importance of cost estimates, the importance of evaluation or threat before we go forward. 
   The other aspect of this legislation is that it will not speed up the deployment of a national missile defense. The administration is committed to developing, doing the research, making a decision based on all of these factors I mentioned and deploying a missile defense, at the same time negotiating with the Russians with respect to the ABM Treaty. As the President indicated, if those negotiations are fruitless, if we are ready to deploy, if the threat is there with respect to rogue states, he is quite prepared at that point to make a decision to deploy. 
   That is a far cry from standing here today saying, ``Disregard negotiations, disregard the evolution of the threat, disregard the cost. As soon as we have one successful test we are going to put it in the field.'' I don't think that is the wisest course. I think we can do better. Indeed, I believe that everyone--the sponsors of the legislation, those who disagree with the legislation--want to do the best for this country and want to ensure that we are protected, want to ensure that in the long run we have comprehensive national  security; 
   that we don't have a situation where we might provide for the inherent missile strike from a rogue nation, yet we have undermined the balance between ourselves and another major nuclear power--Russia or, indeed, China. 
   I think we can do this, but I think we have to begin with the conception that it is just not one parameter, one criteria, and that it is done in a careful way on a multiplicity of issues like cost, technological possibility, threat, and also maintaining a strong regime of arms control, which has benefited us mightily over the course of many decades. 
   So I hope very much that we will be able to amend this legislation to reflect those different aspects and, having amended it, to agree unanimously to send it forward to the President for his signature. I hope we can do that in the days ahead. We will see. 
   At this time, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. KYL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, if I may just respond briefly to the comments made by my colleague, the Senator from Arizona. 
   First, let me again emphasize something that I think is implicit in his statement, and that is we all recognize the threat that is posed by the potential development of intercontinental delivery systems by these rogue nations. No one is discounting that. That has changed the calculus significantly. The question is whether we are going to move forward on the very simple--and one might say simplistic--criterion of ``technologically possible,'' or if we are going to, in this legislation, and in practice, address the complexities of this issue. 
   Historical analogies are never perfect, but I suspect back in the 1930s when France was debating defense policy, the notion of building a series of concrete forts along their territorial line was not only technologically feasible but ultimately was constructed. But when it came to 1940, the Maginot Line just did not work to defend the people of France. I am not suggesting we are in the same type of debate, but I think it is sometimes too alluring to think in the simple terms of: If we have the technology of doing something, let's do it--particularly when we get to the issue of national missile defense. 
   The Senator talked about a window of vulnerability, and there is increasing potential, because of the development of these missiles by North Korea and others, of threats to our territory. But I ask that we think also of the potential vulnerability if Russia, for example, decides, because of our actions, to abandon reasonable arms control;  decides, instead, to walk away from START II, to keep their launchers, their land-based systems with multiple independent reentry vehicles which complicate our defense enormously; if it decides, in fact, to more aggressively deploy its submarines with cruise missiles that may have nuclear warheads, all of which could easily defeat the system that we are proposing to spend billions of dollars on today to counter a limited military threat. 
   Put that new sort of spirit--an ill spirit, I should suggest--together with what one can see as a decaying command and control system and we might be increasing our vulnerabilities by moving forward with this particular legislation. 
   I think we have to be sensitive to those issues. I would not readily accept the notion that simply because of the number of launchers that we have, the number of launchers that they have, that the Russians would simply disregard our unilateral abandonment of the ABM as not a threat to them. 
   We feel threatened, I think with good reason, when the North Koreans--a very, very remote and ill-prepared power--begin to experiment with intercontinental ballistic missiles which would have a capability years from now. To hear on the floor the suggestion that the Russians will just casually shrug their shoulders, although we have made no attempt to renegotiate the ABM and we will have a law that says we have to put the system in place as soon as we can technologically do it, I think misreads their character and, frankly, the predictable character of any country--particularly one like Russia which sees its national greatness eroding greatly, to react, perhaps not rationally but predictably--to not be cooperative, in fact 
   creating more vulnerability. 
   The issue, too, of how much is too much, is a question that can be raised in every context. But, frankly, we all understand that there are opportunity costs, not with respect to using defense dollars for other nondefense matters, but within the context of defense. Take, for example, not the theoretical but the operational possibility of an enhanced submarine fleet which the Russians might deploy with cruise missiles. By the way, those cruise missiles launched reasonably close to our shores could not be countered by any type of national missile defense, C-1, C-2, or C-3. 
   So, in respect to what we have to do, I think we have to ask ourselves, for one thing, is this the wisest course of action? Are we truly protecting the American public? And there can be many answers to that question. But I hope, in the course of this debate and in the conclusion of this debate, we will simply embrace the reality of the situation. It is not one dimensional. It is not just technological feasibility. It has to do with cost, it has to do with threat, it has to do with the evolution of a threat. It has to do with already-existing agreements with respect to international arms control. 
   If we reflect those issues in our legislation, we will find, I suspect, unanimous support for a strong message which would correspond with the administration's message on national missile defense. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I first thank the Senator from Massachusetts for yielding me time but, more importantly, thank him for his tremendous efforts on the floor of this Senate for the last several days. Hour upon hour, he has been battling to ensure that this education flexibility bill is not simply a blank check to the States but it also has the kind of accountability that will be necessary to ensure that this flexibility will result in improved student performance. 
   In fact, it is a battle the Governors urged us to take up because they are as concerned as anyone else to ensure that this flexibility is accompanied by accountability. 
   He has also taken up the fight on two important issues of unfinished business. Last year, we appropriated significant amounts of money over the next several years to ensure that we could reduce class size by hiring additional teachers. It is now imperative that we authorize that appropriation, that we give a sense of continuity, stability, and assurance to the local communities that this money, this program, will be in place over time. Second, last year we also went a long way  toward developing programs to prevent students from dropping out of our schools. Senator BINGAMAN has been the champion of this program and that is unfinished business that we want to take up. 
   What has happened in the course of this debate is we have moved beyond both Ed-Flex and accountability and some unfinished business to embrace other issues. The positive value of that is any debate about education, I believe, is inherently healthy, and I am pleased to do that, but we have taken some steps away from the main topic. 
   There is one issue I particularly want to concentrate on and focus on. That is an amendment I introduced that would go directly to the issue of educational flexibility, directly to the issue of accountability. I had hoped to have the opportunity to offer the amendment as a stand-alone, that I could debate it and engage in a principled discussion, but because of the parliamentary condition of the floor, because of the unanimous consent, the only opportunity I had to have the amendment offered was to do so in conjunction with one of Senator LOTT's amendment. 
   I am in the awkward position of supporting my amendment and grateful that Senator LOTT included it in his amendment, but respectfully differing with Senator LOTT on his proposal with respect to IDEA. What Senator LOTT is essentially providing to the school districts of America is a Hobson's choice, a choice between decreasing class size or additional resources for IDEA, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. I don't think we should present that choice to school districts. I think we should do all we can to ensure that we properly fund IDEA and at the same time we are able to reduce class sizes throughout the country. 
   In fact, I argue that a reduction in class size will materially benefit the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act programs throughout the country because the reality of many schoolrooms is that there are IDEA students in large classrooms. They are not getting the attention they need and deserve. At the same time, the other students aren't getting that type of attention. By reducing class size--and this is an amendment that Senator MURRAY has championed and I salute her--we will help both programs, but ultimately we should be able to find the resources to fund both reduced class sizes and also keep up our commitment to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act program. 
   Let me speak specifically about my amendment that goes to the heart of Ed-Flex. It goes to the heart of accountability. What it would do is involve parents, which I think is a topic we have not paid enough attention to. I hope in this oncoming reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we would put a special emphasis on innovative ways of involving parents in the educational process. We know it works. We know it is important. We know that good schools are schools not only with robust and intellectually curious children and good teachers, they are those schools that have strong parental involvement. 
   My amendment would simply require the States to have a comment period with respect to their proposals for educational flexibility. Specifically, ask that parents and other interested parties be allowed to comment. These comments would be taken pursuant to State laws. We are not trying to create a special unique procedure. We don't want to add to the burden of States, but we want States to listen to the parents in their communities when they talk about educational flexibility. 
   More than that, we want these comments to be incorporated in the application to the Secretary of Education so that the Secretary understands not just the perspective of the Governor, but just as importantly--in fact, one might argue more importantly--the perspective of parents in the communities of that State. 
   I am pleased to say after spending a great deal of discussion with Senator FRIST, particularly, we have reached an accommodation acceptable to both sides. In fact, it represents a movement on my part from the amendment I suggested last year which would have required a formal 30-day period of comments that would require an evaluation of the comments by the States in terms of their goals for educational flexibility and incorporating that in the application. We have decided to move closer together in terms of a more streamlined process. 
   I point out that just a few days ago the Committee on Education and the Workforce in the other body, by an overwhelming vote of 30-9, passed my amendment of last year 
   requiring a much more rigorous parental involvement, a more heavily regulated, if you will, approach to the issue. 
   In order to have a position in conference that will give us the opportunity to discuss this and discuss this with a principle proposal already on the table, I am extremely pleased that this amendment, the Reed amendment, has been incorporated into Senator LOTT's proposal. This Reed amendment is going forward. 
   It also, I might add, follows precedents we established last year with respect to parental involvement, in particular with respect to the Workforce Investment Act and the Reading Excellence Act. I hope this is the beginning of a trend to involve parents directly with the issue of educational reform at the local level. 
   I hope it also represents an opportunity that we will follow up in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act to think about ways we can get parents more involved in the education of their youngsters. I also add that the Parent Teachers Association of America supports my amendment, the Education Trust supports it, the American Federation of Teachers and the Center for Law and Education supports this. Also, this was one of the provisions that was pointed out specifically in the statement of administration policy dated March 3 as part of their review of the underlying Ed-Flex legislation. 
   I say with some regret I cannot support Senator LOTT's proposal because I do think it is presenting a Hobson's choice. I think we can do better. I don't think we have to choose between some children versus others. I think we have to recognize that class size will help all children. It may, in fact, be additionally beneficial to children with special needs. 
   Again, I think as we all recognize that we have a special responsibility to put our money where our noble words are when it comes to the issue of individuals with disabilities and their education in the United States, that requires looking for additional resources rather than simply trying to play one off the other in terms of some children versus other children. 
   I thank, again, Senator KENNEDY's leadership and certainly Senator FRIST and Senator WYDEN who have been doing a remarkable job on the floor. I hope at the end of the day we will have a bill we can all support. There are some provisions, as I outlined, that I opposed, but I conclude by strongly supporting my amendment which would give parents a real say in the educational flexibility plans that emanate from the States. 
   With that, I yield back any time I have to Senator KENNEDY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, reserving the right to object. There was discussion previously with respect to my amendment. I wonder if the majority leader has anything to say with respect to my amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the majority leader for that information. It would have been cleaner to have done it up or down, but the substance is important, and I am pleased that it will be included in the legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the majority leader and the Democratic leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. 
   I rise today to join my colleagues to urge that we not only debate this Ed-Flex bill but we also consider thoughtfully, carefully, and completely many of the amendments that are being put forward by my colleagues. 
   Senator BINGAMAN has talked with great eloquence and knowledge about dropout prevention. He has worked for many years to make sure there is a response to that growing problem here in the United States. That is certainly a legitimate issue to bring to this debate on education flexibility. And there are other amendments that should and must be considered. 
   Many--in fact, all--who have spoken about education flexibility have stressed the need for accountability. The Governors have stressed it. Several Governors appeared before our Education and Labor Committee to talk about not only the need for Ed-Flex but also to insist that they need real accountability to accompany this legislation. 
   Real accountability means something more than just words. I, for example, have an amendment that would provide for parental involvement in accountability in this process, for notification of parents of the proposed State plan, the pulling together of comments by parents, teachers, and others, and the incorporation of these comments in the application that goes forward to the Secretary of Education. If we can't give parents a voice in education flexibility, then we are not only missing a great opportunity but missing a significant and primary responsibility, and yet that is pending without a vote. 
   So there is much work left to be done, and I hope we will defeat the motion for cloture so that we can get on with this work, so that we can fairly consider these amendments, we can vote them up or down, but we can consider them. I hope that is the case. 
   Interestingly enough--and I know this is something that all of my colleagues do--I spent this morning in a school in Rhode Island. I went to the Norwood Avenue Elementary School in Cranston, RI, and I read to first graders, which is a very challenging assignment. And after that, I am even more in favor of smaller class sizes that Senator MURRAY proposes. 
   Then I went to the Warwick Neck School in Warwick, RI, and read to first graders. Then I concluded the morning by going to the Mandela Woods School in Providence, RI. This is a new school which just opened, and it has the most diverse population you would want to see in an America school--African Americans, Asian Americans, Latin Americans. It is a tapestry of urban education in the United States. While I was there, it struck me again and again the importance of the issues we are talking about --not just educational flexibility but all of the issues, how smaller class sizes contribute to better performance. And this is the case in the Warwick Neck school, because that is a small school in and of itself with small class sizes. The principal was very, very proud of the fact it had done very well in statewide mathematics testing as a result of their efforts. 
   So the issue of small class size is there, but also--and I know we have talked about special education--we are beginning to understand now that special education is in many respects a function of early childhood intervention, not just educationally but also in terms of health care. There is a problem in Rhode Island, a terrible problem in Rhode Island, and other places, of lead paint exposure, and that problem leads directly to educational complications. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair for reminding me, and I again urge that we continue this debate, because it is an appropriate, indeed, important, debate, and I hope it continues past this cloture vote. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mrs. MURRAY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Chair. It is, indeed, invigorating and encouraging to be in the Chamber today to talk about education, talking about an innovative proposal to try to reform education and also being able to have a principled debate about increasing the accountability that should be inherent in this proposal because the issue of flexibility alone without accountability could lead simply to sending funds to States without proper controls. And so I believe we will have to emphasize in this debate and ultimately in this legislation accountability as well as flexibility. 
   I have been working on these issues since my time in the other body on the Education and Labor Committee and here on the Labor and Human Resources Committee, and I have always tried to stress the notion of accountability because, sadly, there are too many children in this country today who are not receiving quality education, particularly in rural areas and in central cities. And if we simply transfer funds without some meaningful accountability, I think we will continue to promulgate that disadvantage and continue to do disservice to those children. 
   I would prefer, frankly, to look at all these issues in the context of the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, because however innovative this approach is today with Ed-Flex, it is in my view a nod toward reform, a genuflection toward reform, but it is not the comprehensive reform, frankly, that we should be encouraging because that comprehensive reform requires improvement in teacher quality, the repair and modernization of schools, reduction in class size, strengthening parental involvement, equipping our libraries with the modern technology and the modern media, which is so necessary. And those are the hallmarks of real reform, and those we will encounter in a comprehensive and systematic way in the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Act. But if we are to deal with and move forward on the issue of flexibility, we have to do it right, and we have to do it with respect to accountability. 
   I want to emphasize one other point in terms of this comprehensive approach to education reform. I hope that in this year's reauthorization we would take special strides to try to develop ways to involve parents in the process. This might be one of the most difficult issues we face, one of the most challenging issues we face, but, ultimately, if we get it right, could be the lever that moves significant reform and in a way which we all can afford, because I don't think there is any person in this body who would say that we can do less than improve the involvement of parents in the education of their children. 
   The Ed-Flex bill provides flexibility to States. But, as I have stressed before, flexibility must be a carrot for and matched up with accountability. 
   One aspect of this--and the debate is ongoing now in discussions--and I again commend the sponsors for their willingness to talk and to discuss and negotiate these amendments, 
   these proposed amendments--I think we have to be very clear what we are trying to use the flexibility to achieve. 
   In my view, we are trying to improve student performance. Our focal point should be improved student performance, and this legislation should reflect that overriding focal point. It is one thing to provide relief from forms of regulation to make the life of a principal a little easier, the life of school committee people a little easier, and maybe free up a few extra dollars along the way, but if that does not result in improved student achievement, then we have missed the boat, we have missed the point. That should be our overarching goal, and I believe the amendment Senator KENNEDY and I are proposing is a key to that, and I hope we are making progress to come to a principled reconciliation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I think that is precisely correct. We are not talking about a national standard, a national level of achievement. We are talking about letting the States propose their levels of achievement and then measuring how well this flexibility leads to the accomplishment of their goals. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I thank the Senator for his excellent comments. 
   I believe Texas is a great example of what we can do if we give flexibility and demand accountability. As the Senator from Massachusetts emphasized, this accountability is with respect to their own standards, but it is measurable, it is objective, and it has resulted in great success in the State of Texas. In fact, I suggest most of the proponents of this legislation point to Texas as the example of what Ed-Flex can be and should be. As the Senator from Massachusetts pointed out, part and parcel of that is not just the flexibility, it is rigorous accountability. I hope we can incorporate that notion in this legislation. 
   I think it is also important to recognize, too, that as we debate this Ed-Flex bill, we have yet to have the definitive results from many of the demonstration States confirming that what they have done with Ed-Flex has led to improvement in student performance or just overall improvement in the educational process. The GAO has looked at this issue. Their report certainly raises as many questions as it answers with respect to this issue as to whether Ed-Flex is working in those 12 States that already have the flexibility to do what we are proposing to do legislatively here. 
   The other thing I suggest, too, is it is a concern--and it is a concern that was expressed by my colleague from Oregon--about whether this may endanger funding for the neediest students. I don't think there is anyone in this body, again, who would encourage such a development. We recognize, particularly through title I, that these scarce Federal dollars are going into communities that need them desperately and, in many cases over the decades of this program, have provided a significant makeup for local funds that are not adequate to the purpose. 
   But what we are concerned about--and it is a concern that, again, I hope is worked out through the process of this debate and amendments--is that unwittingly we might undo some of that emphasis and effort. Again, I would not argue it is the purpose of anyone who has proposed this legislation, but we must be careful because, again, we are looking at the most vulnerable population in this country in terms of education. We are looking at a population that desperately needs the support and assistance of every level of government. 
   There is another aspect I would like to conclude with, and that is the participation of parents in this process. I mentioned initially, I believe one of the great challenges we have this year in our reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act is finding ways to encourage more substantive, meaningful parental involvement. In the context of this legislation, along with my colleagues, I will propose an amendment that would allow for greater parental involvement, allow for parental input that would be available for public review and would be included in state or local waiver applications. 
   We are not trying to hamstring local authorities. Last year I had an amendment similar to this that had a 30-day public notice and comment requirement. That is not in this amendment. We are just suggesting, though, if we mean that we want to have parents involved, this is not only a symbolic but a very real and meaningful way to get that involvement--to encourage them to submit comments, to have those comments publicly available, and then have those comments submitted with the application. 
   Again, I am extremely encouraged that we are talking about educational reform. We are working together to come up with innovative ways to do what we all want to do, which is to give every child in this country access to an excellent education. Indeed, we hope to guarantee every child in this country access to an excellent education. 
   With that, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Health Care Consumer Assistance Act, along with my colleague from Oregon, Mr. WYDEN. This legislation creates a consumer assistance program that is key to patient protections in the health insurance market. 
   In 1997, President Clinton's Health Quality Commission identified the need for consumer assistance programs that allow consumers access to accurate, easily understood information and get assistance in making informed decisions about health plans and providers. Today, only a loose patchwork of consumer assistance services exists. And, while a number of sources provide assistance, most are limited. Many consumer groups have advocated for the establishment of consumer assistance programs to support consumers' growing need of information. 
   The legislation I am introducing today gives states grants to establish nonprofit, private health care ombudsman programs designed to help consumers understand and act on their health care choices, rights, and responsibilities. Under my bill, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will offer funds for states to select an independent, nonprofit agency to provide the following services to consumers: information relating to choices, rights, and responsibilities within the plans they select; operate a 1-800 telephone hotline to respond to consumer requests for information, advice and assistance; produce and disseminate educational materials about patients' rights; provide assistance and representation to people who wish to appeal the denial, termination, or reduction of health care services, or a refusal to pay for health services; and collect and disseminate data about inquiries, problems and grievances handled by the consumer assistance program. 
   This program has been championed by Ron Pollack of Families USA and Beverly Malone of the American Nurses Association, who served as members of the President's Commission on Quality, as well as numerous other consumer advocates. 
   Mr. President, I have joined with many of my Democratic colleagues in sponsoring S. 6, the Patients' Bill of Rights Act of 1999. I am pleased that S. 6 would establish a consumer assistance program, similar to that established by my legislation. My purpose today is to emphasize the importance of such a consumer protection program. This legislation is not without controversy, but I believe that American consumers deserve protection and assistance as they attempt to navigate the often confusing and complex world of health insurance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-2-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, we also commend the Senator from West Virginia for his amendment, and I concur with the chairman's remarks. This would not materially increase in any way the costs associated with the Montgomery programs, and it would also provide additional opportunities for service members to pursue higher education. It is something that is consistent with the legislation, and it is an amendment which we support with enthusiasm. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-3-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-4-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, we agree this amendment is necessary to accomplish the purposes of the bill, and we support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-5-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-6-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I would briefly like to comment on Senator HARKIN's amendment and then make more generalized comments on the bill overall. But first let me speak to Senator HARKIN's amendment. 
   I commend him for his initiative. He is responding to the needs of the youngest, most junior members of our military forces who need this type of support not only to provide for themselves and their families but to have the mental attitude and the freedom of mind, if you will, to commit themselves to a military career, and to do so from the very beginning of their careers so they start off on the right foot and they develop successfully as professional soldiers, sailors, airmen. All of this is very important. I commend the Senator for his initiative and I hope we can work out the budgetary aspects of this legislation and adopt this amendment. 
   Now let me turn to the bill in general. 
   First, let me commend the chairman and all of my colleagues on the committee for recognizing the seriousness of this problem of retention and recruitment. Indeed, it is a very serious problem. And this is a very serious solution, because it not only provides for resources for recruitment and retention, it does raise very legitimate and very significant budgetary issues which I will address as I discuss the issues overall. 
   Let there be no mistake, there is a retention and recruitment problem within the military services today. Each year, the Department of Defense is responsible for recruiting 200,000 men and women to fill the active ranks of the military 
   forces in the United States. 
   In fiscal year 1998, the services were only able to recruit 180,000 new soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. While the Air Force and Marines were able to achieve their recruiting goals in 1998, the Army fell short by 776 personnel, and the Navy was short by a significant number, 6,892. This is a problem and it is a problem that is getting worse. 
   In the first 4 months of fiscal year 1999, the Marines again made their recruiting goal, and so did the Navy, but the Army fell short, reaching only 87 percent of its required strength level, and the Air Force only 94 percent of their required strength level. 
   There is a problem with recruitment. And we know if you do not get good personnel to enter the military forces you cannot keep the strength levels up. There is also the associated problem of retaining these good individuals as they go through their military careers. Every service--and many of my colleagues have pointed this out--is struggling to keep pilots. These are highly skilled positions. These positions are not easily replaced. It takes years not only of training but of experience to develop the kind of combat skills necessary for an effective pilot. 
   In the Air Force, for example, for every two pilots who enter the service, they are finding that three are leaving. That ratio is going to cause profound problems going forward. As my colleague from Arkansas pointed out, General Ryan in the Air Force estimated by fiscal year 2002 the Air Force would be 2,000 pilots short. That is a serious erosion of our national security posture. 
   The Navy is experiencing the problems of recruiting and retaining surface warfare officers. This causes them to extend sea duty by months and months and months, putting additional  pressure on military personnel. And it is this vicious circle, of fewer people to do the job, causing those who are on active duty to do more and more and more, that is adding additional pressure to the retention problem. 
   This legislation addresses this problem very directly and with great gusto. There is a 4.8-percent pay increase. And that will not only make the daily lives of military personnel easier--not only give them the resources to provide for their families--it will also be a strong symbolic gesture that will show that this Congress understands the value of our men and women in the military forces. That symbolic, as well as very practical, response is very, very important. 
   Also, this legislation will reform the pay table so that we can begin to reward more effectively and efficiently those midlevel noncommissioned officers and officers. These are the key people who make our military services the best in the world. They are the squad leaders; they are the platoon sergeants; they are the young officers who are at the front doing the job out on patrol in Bosnia and other places. It is individuals who are so important to our military services. With the new pay tables, we will be able to provide better incentives and we hope provide better retention incentives for these individuals. 
   There is another measure in this bill which is also very important, and that is extending the Montgomery GI bill benefits not only to individual military personnel but also to their families. I must commend Senator CLELAND, my colleague, whose idea it was. He was the source of this language. It is very powerful language, because when you look at the retention 
   problem, you find you are talking generally about men and women who are in their late twenties, early thirties. They have 12 years of active duty or so. They are also looking at their families and seeing children, 10, 11, 12 years old and beginning to understand really--not just theoretically--but really that they have to do something to put these children through college. And this provision will help them do that by allowing their benefits to be used for their children. 
   This bill has many commendable components. Again, it stretches the budget dramatically. And that is an issue we have to deal with. But the principles included in this bill are very worthy of support. 
   Let me suggest also, though, that this issue is not just about pay and compensation. Recruitment and retention are not just about pay and compensation. It is an important part, it might be the most salient issue, the one that we should deal with immediately and directly, but it is not the only issue, because there are many other factors that influence whether an individual will enter the military and, in many, many cases, whether that individual will stay on active duty. 
   For example, there is the issue of operational tempo. We are stretching our military forces very, very thin. They are deployed in countries around the globe. They are deployed constantly. When they finish one deployment, they come home, they retrain, and suddenly, before expected in many cases, they are out once again in another deployment. This puts tremendous pressure on family life, puts tremendous pressure on the individual service members and their families. That is an issue we have to deal with. And we are not dealing with it simply by raising pay and allowances. 
   Then there is the issue of readiness. The degree that we take money and put it into the personnel pay side is less money that we will have available for other issues of readiness--frankly, other issues with regard to the equipment that they have and that they believe they must have to do their jobs. That is another issue. 
   Finally, there is the issue which I alluded to about family concerns. The military is changing. This is not the same military we had 20 years ago or 30 years ago. This military is more a family organization in which it is quite likely that younger military personnel will have family and will have dependents. It is also a situation now where the spouses of military personnel have to work. They have to work because, like so many families in America, they need two paychecks even if we increase the pay. 
   But in many cases you have spouses who feel that their own professional and personal development require them to work. And it is very difficult, particularly when you reach that 30-year-old mark with someone who is a spouse who has a job, for them to pick up and suddenly move from one post to another. It might be a good change of assignment for the military member, but it could mean the death knell of the career for the spouse. That is another factor. 
   There are limited opportunities for advancement. The military has gotten smaller. There is also, in this economy, the law of private incentive. We will never be able to pay as much money to a pilot as American Airlines or Delta. So increasing pay is important, but we also have to recognize that there are many, many other forces at work. When you consider these additional factors, you also have to recognize that it is, 
   I think, probably more prudent to try to do this legislation in the context of the overall authorization bill and not separately. And it is also prudent to wait for some information and some analysis that will shortly be forthcoming. 
   The Department of Defense, CBO, and GAO are studying these problems as we speak. We would be very prudent, I think, to wait for their information. 
   For example, the GAO report will indicate, we believe, that the biggest complaint among military personnel--this is from a Defense Week article of February 22--is not pay and allowances; it is heavy workloads, job dissatisfaction, and poor health care. So, again, we are moving promptly to address this issue, but a little bit more circumspection might reward us with a better ultimate product. 
   We are considering this bill today. We should consider this bill today. 
   We also should be very conscious of the cost factors involved. 
   We understand that this bill will likely be about $12 billion more than the President's proposal. That proposal has been fully paid for within the budget. We have to ask ourselves sincerely and reasonably, will this additional increment of billions of dollars make a difference in recruitment and retention? Second, where will we get these funds? These are legitimate questions that we have to consider. 
   Secretary Cohen is acutely sensitive of these issues. In a February 19 letter to Senator LEVIN, he said:  
   I am concerned that until there is a budget resolution that sets the defense budget level, this bill constitutes an unfunded requirement on the Department. Absent an increase in the topline for Defense, these items will only displace other key elements of our program. It would be counterproductive and completely contrary to our mutual desire not to undercut our modernization effort and other readiness priorities.  
   Therefore, as enthusiastic as we are to see that military men and women are rewarded in pay and benefits for their great services to the country, we have to be very, very careful when it comes to this increase in the amount of spending because it could result in cuts in other programs, in modernization programs, in other types of family-like programs which might be equally important to ensure retention of military personnel. 
   I understand and I support what we are trying to do in concept. I believe that this legislation must be changed, though, ultimately to recognize the severe budgetary constraints before we can accept it as law. I hope that when this bill comes back from conference it will not only have these very, very worthy elements, but it will be within a budget cap that we 
   all agree is appropriate for not only the Department of Defense, but for our overall efforts. 
   We have a responsibility to our soldiers, our sailors, our airmen, our marines, a responsibility to our taxpayers. We have to discharge both. I hope we pass this legislation, that we bring it back from conference in a much more constrained budgetary form. If we don't do that, I very well may be compelled to oppose it at that point. Today, I support it. I support it because the principles it includes are important. They address the fundamental problem in the military. It will represent, I hope, progress towards a final, more balanced solution. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my opinion memorandum relating to the impeachment of President Clinton be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990222</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. Chief Justice, for the past six weeks, the Senate has been engaged as a Court of Impeachment to try President William Jefferson Clinton--the first trial of an elected President in the history of the United States. Our deliberations will bring to a close more than a year of controversy which has left the American people both frustrated and dismayed. And, hopefully, our decision will serve as a means of rededicating the energies of our Government to the service of the American people. 
   In this endeavor, our solemn duty to the Constitution is paramount. 
   Conscious of these responsibilities and based on the evidence in the record, the arguments of the House Managers and the counsels for the President, I conclude as follows. The President has disgraced himself and dishonored his office. He has offended the justified expectations of the American people that the Presidency be above the sordid episodes revealed in the record before us. However, the House Managers failed to establish that the President's conduct amounts to ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' requiring his removal from office in accordance with the Constitution. Moreover, the House Managers also failed to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the allegations in the Articles would constitute the crimes of perjury or obstruction of justice. 
   The Constitutional grounds for Impeachment, ``Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors,'' indicate both the severity of the offenses necessary for removal and the essential political character of these offenses. The clarity of ``Treason'' and ``Bribery'' is without doubt. No more heinous example of an offense against the Constitutional order exits than betrayal of the nation to an enemy or betrayal of duty for personal enrichment. With these offenses as predicate, it follows that ``other high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' must likewise be restricted to serious offenses that strike at the heart of the Constitutional order. 
   Certainly, this is the view of Alexander Hamilton; one of the trio of authors of the Federalist Papers which is the most respected and authoritative interpretation of the Constitution. In Federalist No. 65, Hamilton describes impeachable offenses as ``those offenses which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in other words from the abuse or violation of some public trust. They are of a nature which may with peculiar propriety be denominated POLITICAL, as they relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself.'' \1\ \1\ See footnotes at end of speech. 
   This view is sustained with remarkable consistency by other contemporaries of Hamilton. George Mason, a delegate to the Federal Constitutional Convention, declared that ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' refer to ``great and dangerous offenses'' or ``attempts to subvert the Constitution.'' \2\ James Iredell, a delegate to the North Carolina Convention which ratified the Constitution and later a justice of the United States Supreme Court, stated during the Convention debates:  
   The power of impeachment is given by this Constitution, to bring great offenders to punishment. ..... This power is lodged in those who represent the great body of the people, because the occasion for its exercise will arise from acts of great injury to the community, and the objects of it may be such as cannot be easily reached by an ordinary tribunal.\3\  
   Iredell sustains the view that an impeachable offense must cause ``great injury to the community.'' These interpretations strongly indicate that private wrongdoing, without a significant, adverse effect upon the nation, does not constitute an impeachable offense. 
   Later commentators expressed similar views. In 1833, Justice Story quoted favorably from the scholarship of William Rawle in which Rawle concluded that the ``legitimate causes of impeachment ..... can have reference only to public character, and official duty....... In general, those offenses, which may be committed equally by a private person, as a public officer, are not the subject of impeachment.'' \4\ 
   This line of reasoning was manifest in the careful and thoughtful work of the House of Representatives during the Watergate proceedings in 1974. The Democratic staff of the House Judiciary Committee concluded that:  
   [b]ecause impeachment of a President is a grave step for the nation, it is to be predicated only upon conduct seriously incompatible with either the constitutional form and principles of our government or the proper performance of constitutional duties of [the President's] office.\5\  
   This view was echoed by many of the Republican members of the Judiciary Committee when they declared:  
   ..... the Framers ..... were concerned with preserving the government from being overthrown by the treachery or corruption of one man ..... [I]t is our judgment, based upon this constitutional history, that the Framers of the United States Constitution intended that the President should be removable by the legislative branch only for serious misconduct dangerous to the system of government.\6\ 
   This authoritative commentary on the meaning of ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' is supported by the structure of the Constitution which makes impeachment independent from the operation of the criminal justice system. Regardless of the outcome of an impeachment trial, the accused ``shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.'' \7\ The independence of the impeachment process from the prosecution of crimes underscores the function of Impeachment as a means to remove a President from office, not because of criminal behavior, but because the President poses a threat to the Constitutional order. Criminal behavior is not irrelevant to an Impeachment, but it only becomes decisive if that behavior imperils the balance of power established in the Constitution. 
   The House Managers argue that we should apply the same reasoning to the removal of the President that we have applied to the trial of Federal judges. They make their argument with particular urgency in regard to Article I and its allegations of perjury since several judges have been removed for perjury.\8\ 
   This reasoning disregards the unique position of the President. The President is elected and popular elections are a compelling check on Presidential conduct. No such ``popular check'' was imposed on the Judiciary. They are deliberately insulated from the public pressures of the moment to ensure their independence to follow the law and not a changeable public mood. As such, impeachment is the only means of removing a judge. And, the removal of one of the 839 Federal judges can never have the traumatic effect of the removal of the President. To suggest that a Presidential impeachment and a judicial impeachment should be treated identically strains credibility. 
   Moreover, the Constitution requires that judicial service be conditioned on ``good Behavior.'' This adds a further dimension to the consideration of the removal of a judge from office. Although ``good Behavior'' is not a separate grounds for impeachment, this Constitutional standard thoroughly permeates any evaluation of judicial conduct. Judges are subject to the most exacting code of conduct in both their public life and their private life.\9\ Without diminishing the expectations of Presidential conduct, it is fair to say that we expect and demand a more scrupulous standard of conduct, particularly personal conduct, from judges. 
   The House Managers' argument is ultimately unpersuasive. Rather than reflexively importing prior decisions dealing with judicial impeachments, we are obliged to consider the President's behavior in the context of his unique Constitutional duties and without the condition to his tenure of ``good Behavior.'' 
   Authoritative commentary on the Constitution, together with the structure of the Constitution allowing independent consideration of criminal charges, makes it clear that the term, ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors,'' encompasses conduct which involves the President in the impermissible exercise of the powers of his office to upset the Constitutional order. Moreover, since the essence of impeachment is removal from office rather than punishment for offenses, there is a strong inference that the improper conduct must represent a continuing threat to the people and the Constitution, and not simply an episode that either can be dealt with in the Courts or raises no generalized concerns about the continued service of the President.  
   Measured against this Constitutional standard, the allegations against the President do not constitute ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors.'' The uncontradicted facts of the case paint a sordid picture of the President's involvement in a clandestine, consensual affair with a young woman. His atempts to disguise this affair collided with the Jones lawsuit; a lawsuit filed against him in his capacity as a private citizen, and not in anyway directed at his conduct as President. Over many months, he misled and he dissembled about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky. He lied to his family, he lied to his colleagues, and, on January 26, 1998, he lied to the American people. All of these lies were designed to disguise his illicit but consensual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. Only after being compelled to testify before a Federal Grand Jury in August of 1998, did the President finally admit his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. 
   The House Managers take this tale of deception and betrayal, more soap opera than high drama of State, and urge that it rises to behavior evidencing an impermissible exercise of his powers as President or an impermissible failure to discharge his duties as President which threatens the Constitutional balance of government and can only be remedied by the removal of the President. They urge too much. The allegations, even construed in the most favorable light to the House Mangers, do not constitute ``high Crimes and misdemeanors'' as that term has been consistently interpreted over the course of American history.\10\ 
   One could confidently stop at this point and reach a judgment to acquit the President. Such a judgment does not forgive the disreputable behavior of the President. Rather, it does, as it must, keep faith with the Constitution. 
   However, to stop at this juncture and ignore the allegations of criminal conduct could leave several misperceptions. First, such an approach could be criticized as failing to afford the House of Representatives in appropriate recognition as the proponent of Articles of 
   Impeachment. The House of Representatives acted in the discharge of its exclusive Constitutional prerogative to Impeach the President. They cast these Articles as criminal violations, and due deference must be given to the decision of the House. Second, failing to examine the allegations of criminal conduct may leave the erroneous impression that criminal activity by the President can never rise to the level of ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors.'' And, finally, failing to examine these allegations leaves in doubt charges of criminal misconduct against the President. Although the Senate does not sit as a criminal court, a condemnation or exoneration ``by silence'' would be unfair to both the President and to the American people. 
   The House Managers argue in Article I that the President committed the crime of perjury while testifying before the Federal Grand Jury on August 17, 1998. They argue in Article II that the President committed the crime of obstruction of justice in the Jones case. After considering the evidence and the arguments of the House Managers and the White House counsels, I believe that the House Managers have not shown, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the President is guilty of the alleged crimes. 
   It is without dispute that the House Managers have the burden of proof. It is also without dispute that each Senator has the right individually to determine what constitutes the appropriate burden of proof. Because of the gravity of this impeachment process, but, more significantly, because of the urging of the House Managers,\11\ I believe that a standard of beyond a reasonable doubt should be used.\12\ This is the standard used in the prosecution of criminal cases. 
   Article I alleges that the President committed perjury before the Grand Jury by knowingly making false, material statements. The first great hurdle that the House Managers must overcome is the fact that the House refused to adopt an article of impeachment regarding the President's testimony at the Jones deposition. However one characterizes these two statements under oath, no one can argue that the President was more truthful at the Jones deposition. Most, if not all, would argue that he was considerably less truthful at the Jones deposition. This discrepancy fatally undercuts the contention that this Article constitutes ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors,'' and it seriously erodes the claim that the President committed the crime of perjury before the Grand Jury. Unlike the Jones deposition, the President admitted up front in his Grand Jury testimony that he had engaged in ``inappropriate intimate behavior'' with Ms. Lewinsky while they were ``alone.'' 
   Confronted with this preemptive statement by the President, the Article generally alleges perjury without citing specific statements from the Grand Jury testimony and leaves the House Managers with the task of sifting through the record to suggest examples of the President's alleged perjury. They suggest four general areas. 
   First, they point to discrepancies between the testimony of the President and Monica Lewinsky about intimate details of their relationship. This is a difficult proposition to prove without corroborating evidence, and the House Managers offer none. Moreover, some of these details, such as the number of times they engaged in sexual banter on the phone, are just not material. 
   Second, the House Managers attempt to ignore the President's preliminary statement and argue that he adopted the ``perjurious'' testimony of his Jones deposition. This is simply not true. To make this assertion, the House Managers use the President's Grand Jury testimony that ``I was determined to walk through the mind field of this deposition without violating the law, and I 
   believe I did.'' \13\ But, the President's peremptory statement clearly indicated that he was not vouching for the facts of his Jones deposition. The President's statement expresses his state of mind. It is not an affirmation of the Jones testimony. Not even Independent Counsel Starr alleged that the President committed perjury in this way. 
   Third, the House Managers allege that the President's silence, while his counsel made representations about the Lewinsky affidavit, constitutes perjury. This novel theory of ``unspoken perjury'' fails from the lack of any conclusive evidence concerning the President's state of mind at this time. Such evidence is necessary to prove the specific intent to establish the crime. 
   Fourth, the House Managers alleged that the President committed perjury when he denied his involvement in the obstruction of justice, particularly his alleged involvement in the exchange of gifts between Monica Lewinsky and Betty Currie. This topic will be discussed in more detail with respect to Article II. At this juncture, it is sufficient to note that the House Managers have not presented evidence to indicate beyond a reasonable doubt that the President committed perjury. 
   Fifth, the House Managers allege that the President committed perjury when he denied ``coaching'' Betty Currie. Again, this issue will be addressed in more detail with respect to Article II. But, this allegation also fails from the absence of persuasive evidence establishing the President's specific intent in conducting this conversation with Ms. Currie. 
   Finally, the House Managers allege that the President committed perjury when he gave false information to his aides about his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. This too raises the issue of the President's state of mind. His Grand Jury testimony expressed his belief that he tried to say things that were true. He acknowledged that he misled, but he asserted that he tried not to lie. To prove that these statements are perjurious, the House Managers had to prove that the President had the necessary specific intent. They have not done so. 
   Article II alleges that the President obstructed justice. The article sets forth seven ``acts'' which the House Managers argue the President used to implement this ``scheme.'' 
   Three of these alleged ``acts,'' encouraging Monica Lewinsky to file a false affidavit, urging her to give false testimony, and finding her a job to obtain her silence, crash on an immovable evidentiary rock: Monica Lewinsky's uncontradicted and often repeated statement, ``no one ever asked me to lie and I was never promised a  job for my silence.'' \14\ The House Managers offered other circumstantial evidence, but this too failed to be persuasive. 
   The fourth ``act'' involves the transfer of gifts between Ms. Lewinsky and Ms. Currie. Although Ms. Lewinsky's testimony strongly suggests that the President directed Ms. Currie to retrieve gifts, the two parties to this suggested transaction, the President and Ms. Currie, flatly deny any such conversation. Certainly, there is more than a reasonable doubt based on this conflicting testimony; particularly, since no one has ever impeached Ms. Currie's credibility. 
   The fifth ``act'' recharacterizes the President's silence, while his attorney made representations about Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit, as obstruction of justice. This allegation fails based on the lack of any conclusive evidence of the President's state of mind. 
   The sixth ``act'' involved the purported coaching of Betty Currie by the President after his Jones deposition. This allegation too turns on the President's state of mind. The House Managers argue that the President's intent was to influence the testimony of Ms. Currie as a potential witness. White House counsels argue that the President had no reasonable anticipation 
   that she would be a witness. But, more decisively, they argue that his intent was to confirm his story in anticipation of a media onslaught. The lack of persuasive evidence about his state of mind also undercuts this allegation. 
   Finally, the last allegation involves the President's purported attempt to influence the testimony of his aides. Again, the House Managers have not shown beyond a reasonable doubt that the President intended to make his statement to influence their testimony. There is an equally plausible inference that the President was simply continuing his public campaign to deny his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. This campaign led him to lie to the American public and no one suggests he was then tampering with witnesses. Indeed, as a result of these public statements, it seems unlikely that he would tell his aides anything else. 
   The House Managers have not sustained their burden of proof in regard to Article II. 
   It is clearly evident that the facts of the case require acquittal. As such, serious questions can and should be raised about the unwarranted extension of the trial. Given the significant doubts surrounding the case of the House Managers, a motion to dismiss, followed by a debate on censure should have been utilized to properly put an end to these proceedings. Instead, a majority of the Senate accommodated the desire of the House Managers to excessively pursue allegations that were politically damaging to the President. Indeed, had members of the House of Representatives been allowed to consider censure this matter may never have reached the Senate. 
   We, as a nation and as the Senate, have come to the end of a long and wearisome road. It has wandered through scandal and deception. Many of those who have trod this road, both individuals and institutions, have seen their reputations besmirched. The journey emanated from the reckless conduct of William Jefferson Clinton. But, the passage has also exposed vicious political partisanship and the reckless and relentless exploitation of the powers of the Independent Counsel. In the midst of this dishonor, deception, and rancor, we could have easily lost our way. But, we reached this moment because we have been guided by the Constitution and inspired by the common sense and common decency of the American people, and with such a guide and such inspiration, we will do justice with our votes, whether they be to conflict or acquit. 
   And for my part, the Constitution and the evidence compels me to vote to acquit the President on both Articles of Impeachment. 
   FOOTNOTES\1\ The Federalist Papers, No. 65 (Hamilton) at 396 (Clinton Rossiter, ed., 1961) (emphasis in original). \2\ Max Farrand, ed., The Record of the Federal Convention of 1787, at 550 (1966). \3\ Jonathan Elliot, Debates on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution, at 113 (emphasis added). \4\ Joseph Story, Commentaries on the Constitution &#167;799 at 269-270 quoting William Rawle, A View of the Constitution of the United States at 213 (2d ed. 1829). \5\ Constitutional Grounds for Presidential Impeachment, Report by the Staff of the Impeachment Inquiry, House Comm. On Judiciary, 93rd Cong., 2d Sess. at 26 (1974). \6\ Impeachment of Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States, Report of the House Comm. on the Judiciary, 93rd Cong., 2d Sess., H. Rep. 93-1305 at 364-365 (Aug. 20, 1974) (Minority Views of Messrs. Hutchinson, Smith, Sandman, Wiggins, Dennis, Mayne, Lott, Moorhead, Maraziti, and Latta). \7\ U.S. Const. Art. I &#167;3. Cl. 7. \8\ For example, both Judge Walter L. Nixon, Jr. and Judge Alcee L. Hastings were convicted based on charges of perjury. \9\ The Judicial Conference of the United States publishes a Code of Conduct for United States Judges, as prepared by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. Cannon 2 of the Code requires federal judges to ``avoid impropriety and the appearance of impropriety in all activities.'' (March, 1997.) This Cannon requires a Judge to at all times act in ``a manner that promotes public confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the judiciary.'' Perceived violations of the Code could result in a complaint to the Judicial Conference, which can make referrals to the House Judiciary Committee. \10\ These allegations are a far cry from the most relevant historical precedent, the Watergate affair of President Richard M. Nixon. For example, President Nixon attempted to cover up a burglary of the Democratic National Committee by enlisting the authority and the assistance of the Central Intelligence Agency. The precipitating event of this crisis was a direct attack on a fundamental Constitutional tenet, the right to free and fair elections unimpeded by the criminal attempts to steal information and wiretap telephones. Moreover, President Nixon liberally exercised the formal powers of his office to impede the investigation. \11\ Mr. Manager McCollum stated, ``none of us, would argue ..... that the President should be removed from the office unless you conclude he committed the crimes that he is alleged to have committed.'' 145 Cong. Rec. S260 (daily ed. Jan. 5, 1999) (Statement of Mr. Manager McCollum). The House Managers invited the Senate to arrive at a conclusion beyond a reasonable doubt before voting to convict the President. I take them at their word. \12\ The adoption of a standard of ``beyond a reasonable doubt'' in this matter should not be construed as implying that the same standard must be utilized in each and every Impeachment proceeding. Conduct of ``civil officers'' in the performance of their official duties might pose such an immediate threat to the Constitution that a less exacting standard could properly be used. Any choice of a standard of proof must, at a minimum, consider the nature of the allegations and the impact of the alleged behavior on the operation of the government. \13\ Grand Jury Testimony of President Clinton on 8/17/98 as cited in the House Managers' Trial Brief, p. 60. \14\ Part I, Appendices to the Referral to the U.S. House of Reps., Communication from The Office of the Independent Counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, 105th Cong. 2d Sess., H. Doc. 105-311 (September 18, 1998) at 1161. (Ms. Lewinsky responding to a question from a juror). See also Counsel to the President's Trial Brief, p. 57.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague Senator HAGEL in introducing the Small Business Banking Act of 1999, legislation that eliminates a Depression-era federal law prohibiting banks from paying interest on commercial checking accounts. Last year, I cosponsored a similar bill with Senator HAGEL that was incorporated into a financial institutions regulatory relief bill which passed the Banking Committee. 
   The prohibition against the payment of interest on commercial accounts was originally part of a broad prohibition on the payment of interest on any deposit account. At the time of enactment in 1933, it was the popular view that payment of interest on deposits created an incentive for rural banks to shift excess deposits to urban money center banks which made loans that fueled speculation. Moreover, it was believed that such transfers created liquidity crises in rural communities. However, a number of changes in the banking system since enactment of the prohibition have called into question its usefulness. 
   First, with the passage of the Depository Institutions Deregulatory and Monetary Control Act of 1980, Congress allowed financial institutions to offer interest-bearing accounts to individuals--a change which has not adversely affected safety and soundness. Second, many banks have developed complex mechanisms called sweep accounts to circumvent the interest rate prohibition. Because of the costs associated with developing sweep accounts, large banks have become the primary offerors of these accounts. As a result, many smaller banks are at a competitive disadvantage with larger banks which can offer their commercial depositors interest-bearing accounts. Most importantly, the vast majority of small businesses cannot afford to utilize sweep accounts because the cost of opening these accounts is relatively high and most small businesses do not have a large enough deposit base to justify the administrative costs. 
   In light of these developments, it has become clear that the prohibition on interest-bearing commercial accounts is nothing more than a relic of the Depression-era that has effectively disadvantaged small businesses and small banks, and led large banks to dedicate significant resources to circumventing the prohibition. I am, therefore, pleased to cosponsor this legislation that will eliminate this prohibition and level the playing field for small banks and small business. 
   Mr. President, as we move into a new millennium, I think it appropriate that we eliminate this vestige of the early twentieth century that is no longer useful and is indeed burdensome. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I wish to share with my colleagues the outstanding accomplishments of a great Rhode Islander, Mr. William A. McCombe, Chief of Police in the Town of New Shoreham on Block Island, Rhode Island. 
   Chief McCombe grew up in my hometown of Cranston, Rhode Island. He embarked on a long and successful career in public service by joining the New Shoreham Police Department in 1980 at the age of 20, attending the Rhode Island Police Academy the following year. 
   After being promoted to Sergeant in 1984, Mr. McCombe received a bachelors degree in Criminal Justice from Roger Williams University in 1987. In 1992, at 32 years of age, he was promoted to Chief of Police for the Town of New Shoreham. Two years later, Chief McCombe graduated from the FBI National Academy in Quantico, Virginia. He also has attended the Secret Service Diplomatic School in Washington, DC in 1998. 
   I have known Chief McCombe for a few years, but following President Clinton's decision to accept my invitation to visit Block Island, I worked closely with the Chief to ensure the President's short stay went smoothly. Chief McCombe's professionalism and attention to detail were exemplary and were essential in ensuring that the island's limited resources were not overwhelmed. 
   Chief McCombe has lived on Block Island for 21 years and has served on the police department for 19 of those years. He has devoted his life to preserving the public safety enjoyed by the people of the Town of New Shoreham and the entire state of Rhode Island. We are grateful for his continuing public service.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-reed-ri-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I join my colleagues as an original cosponsor of Senator Cleland's Military Recruiting and Retention Improvement Act of 1999. 
   I am glad we are introducing this bill today because it demonstrates our interest and support for one of the greatest needs of our fighting men and women--improved pay and benefits. As my colleagues know, this is one of the most serious issues likely to come before the Armed Services Committee this year. 
   Last week, I attended my first hearing as a new member of the committee. I carefully listened to the Joint Chiefs of Staff as they outlined their priorities for the fiscal year 2000 budget. Without exception, each named recruitment and retaining skilled personnel as their top priority. The Joint Chiefs asked us unequivocally to address this issue, and I believe the bill we introduce today places us on the proper path. 
   This bill will make a difference to men and women when they are deciding to begin or continue a military career. The 4.8 percent pay increase will make their daily lives easier and more enjoyable. Reforming the pay table to provide increases in salaries for midcareer NCOs and officers will not only reward these dedicated men and women for the years they have served our country, but provide an incentive for them to continue their valued work. Renewing the various bonuses for three more years will let our men and women in uniform know that we realize and appreciate the sacrifices they make performing dangerous missions for months at a time far from home. 
   Perhaps the most unique provisions of the Military Recruiting and Retention Improvement Act are the educational benefits. Military personnel would no longer have to contribute $1,200 to take advantage of the Montgomery GI bill and they would received increased monthly benefits. In addition, the Service Secretaries would be given the discretion to allow military personnel who qualify to transfer their education benefit to a spouse or child. Education is vital in today's society, yet financing needed training is an enormous burden to shoulder. I believe that many of our men and women in uniform choose to leave the service because they must find a job which will allow them to pay for their children's education. With the provisions in this bill, military personnel can continue their careers and more readily afford the cost of educating their children. 
   Mr. President, taking care of America's military personnel is one of the most serious responsibilities Congress has. Every day our men and women in uniform risk their lives to defend our country and the principles we champion. It is our obligation to let them know that we appreciate the sacrifices they make on our behalf. If we do not, the entire country will suffer. 
   Finding the best ways to improve our troop's quality of life is a difficult and complex task. The Military Recruiting and Retention Improvement Act is a sound proposal, but it is only the beginning to a comprehensive solution. We will not find a solution if Democrats and Republicans do not work together. Indeed, care of America's troops has always been an issue in which we have been united and it is my sincere hope that this tradition can continue in the 106th Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

