<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to call my colleagues' attention to the work of scientists around the country who are involved in guiding the federal government in issues relating to science and technology. As the ranking Democrat on the International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services Subcommittee, I know the importance of these men and women who support our nation's ability to make informed science policy decisions. 
   Throughout this Congress, the Governmental Affairs Committee has held extensive hearings on the challenges facing the federal government to ensure adequate staffing levels in the face of aggressive competition from the private sector for skilled employees. A common theme of these hearings is the shortage of information technology employees, and the federal government is taking steps to fill the critical gaps in IT personnel through enhanced recruitment, retention, and training programs. The Office of Personnel Management recently announced new pay schedules for some levels of IT employees, and a new scholarship program will offer financial assistance to undergraduate and graduate students in exchange for a two-year commitment to work for the government in information security. The program was authorized by the FY01 Defense Authorization bill. 
   However, in the rush to ensure adequate IT and computer information security staffing levels, we should not forget the need to make certain that the federal government continues to attract physical and natural scientists. The November 24, 2000 issue of Science discusses the difficulties and rewards facing scientists who enter public service. These ``civic scientists'' are employed at all levels of government, as well as serving on federal advisory panels and review groups. Their activities play a critical role in making decisions for funding priorities, new initiatives, and regulatory actions that depend increasingly on scientific expertise. 
   The scientific community and the federal government have a mutually beneficial relationship, which is nurtured through programs that bring scientists into policy staff positions, both as career employees and as temporary staff. I know my colleagues are well acquainted with the Sea Grant Fellowship program that offers an educational experience to graduate students in marine or aquatic studies to work in a congressional, executive branch, or association office. Nor are we strangers to the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Fellowship program that introduces over 100 scientists and engineers from diverse fields to executive and legislative policy positions for one to two years. These fellowship programs provide unique opportunities to scientists and serve as an introduction to working for the federal government. 
   In addition, many professional science and engineering societies are addressing the importance of these programs to science and the value of the scientists who choose to take on these roles. The scientific community is changing its view of those who work in science policy as digressing from ``real science'' to instead seeing it as a respectable career path. These programs and others put scientists into staff roles at the federal level and create politically informed citizen-scientists. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   December 7, 1999: Jose Corral, 72, Miami-Dade County, FL; George Dean, 17, Philadelphia, PA; Kowandius Hammett, 22, Miami-Dade County, FL; John Jeter, 24, Philadelphia, PA; Andre Derrell Jones, 23, Baltimore, MD; Tommy Martin, 38, Oakland, CA; Casey B. Morgan, 42, Seattle, WA; Karen K. Morgan, 43, Seattle, WA; Thomas B. Morgan, 45, Seattle, WA; Adon L. Shelby, 32, Chicago, IL; Emeric Tahane, 22, Washington, DC; Heiu Minh Trihn, 22, New Orleans, LA; and Unidentified Male, 23, Nashville, TN. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, this past week Washington, DC was the site of a global meeting of space faring nations at the International Space Symposium. A question raised at this event was how the United States' position, as a leader in both government sponsored and commercial space industry and exploration, is to be maintained in the future in light of emerging competitors and markets around the world. 
   As a partner in the construction of the International Space Station, we have entered into the greatest example of international cooperation to date. As NASA director Dan Goldin remarked at the Symposium, the Space Station will be a partnership of 16 countries, including the U.S., Russia, Japan, the eleven members of the European Union, and Brazil. The Expedition 1 crew left for the Space Station at 1:53 AM, Tuesday morning, marking October 31, 2000, as the date that humanity began its permanent residence in space. American astronaut Bill Shepherd and Russian cosmonauts Yuri Gidzenko and Sergei Krikalev will dock with the Space Station on Thursday and begin assembly tasks as new elements are added to the orbiting outpost. At completion, the Space Station will have a pressurized volume larger than the cabin and cargo hold of a 747 airliner. Of the seven modules, six will house laboratories. With these, the United States and the nations of the world will have the opportunity to use the resources and capabilities of the Space Station for scientific and technological research. The U.S. laboratory module will have racks, or lab space, for individual experiments, as well as sites where independent research payload can be attached. Some portion of each will be dedicated to commercial use. 
   As expected, a host of physical science experiments will use the research racks, payload sites, and Earth-viewing windows. Platforms will also be available to test communications systems. Exciting experiments are proposed in the life sciences and other fields only now recognizing the opportunities that exist in space. Studies in porous-ceramic bone replacement, gene transformation, and drug design will all benefit from extended experiments in the weightless environment of the Space Station. The ISS also provides an avenue for other countries to have access to space, for experimentation and exploration, thereby diminishing the need for their own space launch vehicle and potential missile capabilities. We must seize this opportunity for international cooperation, fair access to space, and limitless scientific and technological advancement. 
   As the International Space Station demonstrates, the future poses many opportunities for the Unites States in space. However, it likewise presents several risks. Also discussed at the International Space Symposium were  the threats facing the U.S. space industry. One of the largest and most worrisome for our long-term health and viability is a lack of trained, competent, technically skilled workers. The space sector employs between 400,000 and 1,000,000 people. Assuming a 25 year career span, this indicates a need for about 150,000 new employees a year. This does not take into account the fact that the space industry workforce is aging and that the skills used in the space sector, such as system level engineering, problem solving and trouble shooting, and general technical aptitude, are needed in other industries as well. A recent study found that the space sector dropped from being the third most popular field for young people to enter in 1990 to seventh in 1999. The space industry is finding it harder to both recruit and retain technically skilled workers. 
   I bring this to our colleagues' attention, Mr. President, because the federal government is facing a similar threat. Shortages in workers with scientific and technical training are being faced by many Executive agencies and government labs, as well as the federal space community. As difficult as it is for the commercial space industry to recruit and retain qualified employees, it is even harder for the federal government. Now, and for the foreseeable future, the federal government will continue to be the biggest client for the space industry with its civil and military space ventures. The federal government needs to be able to make decisions regarding selection of products, services and systems and have the personnel to use them. It must also have the personnel to advise Congress and federal regulatory agencies in making intelligent, informed and prudent decisions that will encourage competition and success in the commercial space industry. 
   The Federal and commercial space industry recognize the risk the shortage of technically skilled workers present to the nation's long-term prosperity and viability. As the ranking member of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services, I am interested in how we can avert what most certainly poses a threat to our national security and economic well-being. The Federal Government is attempting to address those factors in its work environment that make it less attractive to technically skilled workers, while emphasizing the rewarding and fulfilling public service careers available. A way for the Federal Government to increase the number of qualified workers could be a partnership with universities to encourage the skills and training needed to enter the field. The Federal Government should aggressively promote its student loan repayment program to attract young college graduates who may turn away from Federal service because they are burdened with school debts. This program, which has been authorized since 1991, was never implemented due to budget cuts, hiring freezes, and downsizing over the past decade. Since last March, Senators DURBIN, VOINOVICH, and I have urged the Office of Personnel Management to implement the loan repayment program because we viewed it as an opportunity to encourage young people to join the Federal Government. We were successful in expanding the benefit beyond the scope of the initial authorization through an amendment to the FY01 DoD Authorization Act, which was signed by the President on October 30, 2000. 
   The loan repayment program will be a critical component for the Federal Government in its effort to recruit and retain highly qualified professional, technical, or administrative personnel by allowing Federal agencies to repay up to $40,000 of an employee's student loans. In addition to attracting recent college graduates, efforts to retain experienced federal employees will include loan repayment programs for those who pursue additional academic training. We stand at the threshold of an age of opportunity and challenge. Our future as a global leader in space depends on having the people to meet this challenge. I urge my colleagues to join me in fostering an interest in public service among our nation's youth so that they will pursue careers that further our nation's federal space programs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about an issue which has, of late, affected the lives of all Americans. I am talking about rising energy costs. All indications suggest that America's summer of discontent is going to continue and become the winter of discontent with respect to energy prices. Americans have paid recordbreaking prices at the pump this summer. They will continue to suffer escalating prices this winter, too. Higher energy prices hit most those Americans who can afford it the least. But more important, the findings of an international panel of scientists has concluded that man-made greenhouse gases are altering the atmosphere in ways that affect earth's climate. 
   The World Meteorological Organization and the United Nations Environment Program established the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 1988. The function of IPCC is to assess available information on the science, impacts, and crosscutting economic issues related to climate change, in particular a possible global warming induced by human activities. The IPCC completed its first assessment report in August 1990 which indicated with certainty an increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases due to the human activity. The report assisted the governments of many countries in making important policy decisions, in negotiating, and in the eventual implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change which was signed by 166 countries at the UN Conference on Environment and Development at Rio de Janeiro in 1992. The convention was ratified in December 1993 and took effect on 21 March 1994. IPCC also issued another assessment in 1995. 
   I find the conclusions of the panel's latest assessment alarming. One of its most striking findings is its conclusion that the upper range of warming over the next century could be even higher than the panel's 1995 estimates. 
   The evidence of increasing warming has shown up in different places--retreating glaciers and snow packs, thinning polar ice, and warmer nights. There is a growing consensus that humans are playing a significant role in climate change. Even some of those who dissent from the view that human activity is altering the climate concede that human influence on the earth's climate is established. 
   I rise today, in the closing days of the 106th Congress, to urge all interested organizations and individuals to begin working now to address energy issues early in the next Congress. We have two distinct problems to address. First, we must ensure that Americans continue to enjoy reasonably priced energy now and in the future. Second, we must work on the development of environmentally sound solutions to our energy problem in the mid- to long-term timeframe. 
   In the last few months we have had several hearings on electricity restructuring, oil prices, supply and demand, gasoline price hikes, natural gas, and the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. All these hearings point to one thing--that we have problems with our energy picture, and they need to be fixed, and fixed soon. 
   Our energy problem has been in the making for a long time. For the last thirty years, we have had several energy crises. The reasons for all of these crises were the same: actions and crises in the Middle East, rising American demand, bigger cars, and so on. The crisis this year is no different. Whenever the Middle East sneezes, Americans catch cold. American pockets books have suffered these periodic colds. But the people of Hawaii have suffered a long and almost interminable cold. Throughout the 1990's, Hawaii has been the number one state in terms of gas prices at the pump. It relinquished this dubious honor to states in the Midwest this summer. This has to stop. We must ensure that Americans get energy at reasonable prices. 
   Our import dependence has been rising for the past two decades. The combination of lower domestic production and increased demand has led to imports making up a larger share of total oil consumed in the United States. Last year crude oil imports amounted for 58 percent of our oil demand. Oil imports will exceed 60 percent of total demand this year. Imports will constitute 66 percent of the U.S. supply by 2010, and more than 71 percent by 2020. Continued reliance on such large quantities of imported oil will frustrate our efforts to develop a national energy policy and set the stage for energy emergencies in the future. 
   Transportation demands on imported oil remain as strong as ever. Since the oil shock of the 1970s, all major energy consuming sectors of our economy with the exception of transportation have significantly reduced their dependence on oil. The transportation sector remains almost totally dependent on oil-based motor fuels. The fuel efficiency of our vehicles needs to be improved. 
   U.S. natural gas demand in the last decades has increased significantly. It is expected to grow by more than 30 percent over the next decade. Demand for natural gas from each of the major consuming sectors--residential, commercial, industrial, and electricity generation will increase. Electricity generation accounts for the lion's share of this increase at 50 percent of the increase. 
   We are facing problems on both sides of the supply and demand equation. Worldwide supplies of available energy sources are getting tighter and demand is increasing. This only means that unless one side of the equation changes, we will continue to have energy problems. 
   We cannot look at our energy sources in a piecemeal fashion. We will have to take a comprehensive look at all aspects of our energy picture. The only way to deal with our energy problem is to have a multifaceted energy strategy and remain committed to that strategy. We must adopt energy conservation, encourage energy efficiency, and support renewable energy programs. Above all, we must develop energy resources that diversify our energy mix and strengthen our energy security. 
   I urge all interested organizations and individuals to work together to strengthen our energy policy, an energy policy that serves the American public. 
   In the short term, we can do this by building upon a lot of good work that has already been done. Initiatives such as the deep water royalty incentives proposed by our former colleague, Senator Bennett Johnston and supported by the Administration have been major contributors to the 65 percent increase in offshore oil production under this Administration. Policies that led to the increases in natural gas production in deep waters by 80 percent in just the past two years are welcome. Natural gas production on Federal lands has increased by nearly 60 percent since 1992. This is a good sign that we are able to utilize our national resources in an environmentally responsible manner. 
   Initiatives such as the Interagency Working Group on Natural Gas, the Federal Leadership Forum to address environmental review processes, a resource assessment for Wyoming oil and gas, and technology partnering with the Bureau of Land Management to improve access to Federal lands will provide increased energy resources. 
   In 1998, DOE and the Occidental Petroleum Corporation, concluded the largest divestiture of federal property in the history of the U.S. government. The sale of Elk Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve in California for $3.65 billion underscored the Clinton Administration's faith in the private sector to carry responsible development of the 11th largest of the Nation's oil and gas fields. 
   The Clinton Administration has proposed several tax incentives to encourage new domestic exploration and production and to lower the business costs of the producers when oil prices are  low. It also proposed tax credits for improving energy efficiency and promoting use of renewable energy. Tax reforms would help us improve our energy supply picture. 
   The Administration has also advanced legislation to address the issue of restructuring the electric utility industry. A number of other restructuring proposals have been made. The electric utility industry is an integral part of the overall energy supply and demand equation. 
   The restructuring that we are talking about essentially involves the lower 48 States that are contiguous. Some may ask what is in it for Hawaii? It is not connected to the national grid. The answer is simple. Hawaii imports from the Mainland a vast portion of goods and services it consumes. Reduction in production costs on the Mainland because of competition unleashed by electric utility industry restructuring would benefit the people of Hawaii. 
   We can build upon the Clinton Administration's accomplishments. Its strategically focused energy policy encompasses economic, environmental, and national security considerations. It is a balanced approach. 
   The effects of major global climate change on the U.S. and the rest of the world will be 
   devastating. I will take a few minutes here to describe the effect of climate change on Hawaii. Being a state consisting of islands with limited land mass, we are, as we must be, sensitive to global climate changes. We are tropical paradise and we would like to stay that way. But the worldwide problem of greenhouse gases threatens our well-being. 
   Honolulu's average temperature has increased by 4.4 degrees over the last century. Rainfall has decreased by about 20 percent over the past 90 years. By 2100, average temperatures in Hawaii could increase by one to five degrees Fahrenheit in all seasons and slightly more in the fall. New data may revise this estimation upward. 
   Estimates for future rainfall are highly uncertain because reliable projections of El Nin 6o do not exist. It is possible that large precipitation increases could occur in the summer and fall. It is also not yet clear how the intensity of hurricanes might be affected. 
   The health of Hawaii's people may be negatively affected by climate change. Higher temperatures may lead to greater numbers of heat-related deaths and illnesses. Increased respiratory illnesses may result due to greater ground-level ozone. Increased use of air conditioning could increase power plant emissions and air pollution. Viral and bacterial contamination of fish and shellfish habitats could also cause human illness. Expansion of the habitat and infectivity of disease-carrying insects could increase the potential for diseases such as malaria and dengue fever. 
   In Honolulu, Nawiliwili, and Hilo, the sea level has increased six to fourteen inches in the last century and is likely to rise another 17 to 25 inches by 2100. The expected rise in the sea level could cause flooding of low-lying property, loss of coastal wetlands, beach erosion, saltwater contamination of drinking water, and damage to coastal roads and bridges. During storms, coastal areas would be increasingly vulnerable to flooding. 
   Agriculture might be enhanced by climate change, unless droughts decrease water supplies. Forests may find adapting to climate change more difficult. For example, `ohi'a trees are sensitive to drought and heavy rains. Changes could disproportionately stress native tree species because nonnative species are more tolerant of temperature and rainfall changes. Climatic stress on trees also makes them vulnerable to fungal and insect pests. 
   Hawaii's diverse environment and geographic isolation have resulted in a great variety of native species found only in Hawaii. However, 70 percent of U.S. extinctions of species have occurred in Hawaii, and many species are endangered. Climate change would add another threat. Higher temperatures could also cause coral bleaching and the death of coral reefs. 
   Hawaii's economy could also be hurt if the combination of higher temperatures, changes in weather, and the effects of sea level rise on beaches make Hawaii less attractive to visitors. Adapting to the sea level rise could be very expensive, as it may necessitate the protection or relocation of coastal structures to prevent their damage or destruction. 
   We have to address the problems that may be created by the climate change and the sooner we start on this the better off we will be. We would have to invest in the development of new technologies that will provide new and environmentally friendly sources of energy, newer and environmentally friendly technologies that allow use of conventional energy sources. We would have to work closely with other nations in a cooperative manner. We can help the rest of the world through our well known technological prowess. 
   Our energy policy for the 21st century requires forward thinking. Sustainable economic growth requires a sustainable energy policy. In an era with revolutionary changes in communications and information technologies, information exchange, interdependent trade, the world economies are becoming increasingly globalized. Our challenge will be to sustain this global economy while enhancing the global environment. Our energy challenge will be to formulate and implement policies that provide not only the U.S. but all nations with reasonably priced energy. 
   We need fundamentally different sources of energy for the 21st century. Hydrogen is one such energy source. The long-term vision for hydrogen energy is that sometime well into the 21st century, hydrogen will join electricity as one of our Nation's primary energy carriers, and hydrogen will ultimately be produced from renewable sources. But fossil fuels, especially natural gas, will be a significant long-term transitional resource. In the next twenty years, increasing concerns about global climate changes and energy security concerns will help bring about penetration of hydrogen in several niche markets. The growth of fuel cell technology will allow the introduction of hydrogen in both the transportation and electricity sectors. 
   We are a long way from realizing this vision for hydrogen energy. But progress is being made and many challenges and barriers remain. Sustained effort is the only way to overcome these challenges and barriers. We need to support a strategy that focuses on midterm and long-term goals. 
   While we develop suitable technologies for using this clean source of energy, we can rely on other clean sources such as natural gas. Natural gas is a good choice for the fuel of the future. It is safe and reliable to deliver, more environmentally friendly than oil, and more than three times as energy-efficient as electricity from the point of origin to point of use. There are other potential sources of clean energy such as methane hydrates that need to be explored and developed. 
   We need to unleash American ingenuity to find solutions to our energy problem. This Senator is convinced that we can do this only when we have a national commitment to, and a strategy for technological advancement as part of national energy policy. Only a national commitment will help us maintain a sustainable economic growth while protecting environmental values. We should recognize that there is a growing intersection between national economy, environment, and energy. If we ignore energy policy, then we only imperil our economy and national security. 
   I want to compliment my friends, Senators MURKOWSKI and BINGAMAN, the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Energy Committee for the great effort that they put into educating us all and trying to build a consensus on very difficult issues. Our Senate Energy Committee has committed a great deal of time in discussing our energy problems. I believe the time has come for us to act. I am committed to help move the energy agenda with alacrity in the coming Congress. 
   In the coming session, we must try to move legislation that encourages, adopts, and strengthens energy conservation. We must encourage energy efficiency, and support renewable energy programs. Above all, we must formulate and advance policies that encourage the development of energy resources that diversify our energy mix and strengthen our energy security without sacrificing the environment. 
   We have had eight long years of unparalleled economic growth. The  health of our economy is threatened by the escalating price of energy and dire predictions about our energy supply and demand equation. We cannot allow our energy problem to derail our economy. We cannot allow the greenhouse gases to negatively impact the American people and their way of life. We must act at the earliest possible moment in the coming session to address energy issues that we were not able to address in a bipartisan fashion in the 106th Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as the ranking member of the Federal Services Subcommittee, I am pleased to introduce legislation to amend the Whistleblower Protection Act, WPA, one of the cornerstone of our nation's good government laws. Enacted in 1989, the WPA is intended to protect federal employees from workplace retaliation when disclosing waste, fraud, or abuse. The law was passed unanimously in 1989, and strengthened through amendments in 1994, again with unanimous support of both houses of Congress. I am joined today by Senator LEVIN, who was a primary sponsor of the landmark 1989 Act and the 1994 amendments. 
   A key goal of the Whistleblower Protection Act was to close the loopholes that had developed under prior law. Back in 1978, Congress passed the Civil Service Reform Act, which included statutory whistleblower rights that elevated certain disclosures to absolute protection due to their public policy significance. The 1978 Act protected ``a'' disclosure evidencing a reasonable belief of specified misconduct, with certain listed statutory exceptions--classified or other information whose release was specifically barred by other statutes. Despite statutory language, the Federal Court of Appeals, the Merit Systems Protection Board, and the Office of Special Counsel--all created in 1978 to investigate and adjudicate the WPA--appeared to interpret the law as discretionary rather than absolute. 
   This removed the law's foundation. Congress, in 1978, had intended to create absolute categories of protection to end the inherent chilling effect in constitutional balancing tests that required employees to guess whether they were covered by the First Amendment. Congress sought to eliminate the confusion by resolving the balance in favor of free speech rights for serious misconduct listed in the statute. Unfortunately, the Federal Circuit and administrative agencies did not respect this mandate and created loopholes based on factors irrelevant to the public, such as whether an employee had selfless motives or was the first to expose particular misconduct. 
   As a result, a cornerstone of the Whistleblower Protection Act was to close these loopholes that arose under prior law by amending protection of ``a'' disclosure to ``any'' disclosure which meets the law's standards. The purpose was to clearly prohibit any new exceptions to the law's coverage. Only Congress has that authority. Again, however, in both formal and informal interpretations of the Act, loopholes continued to proliferate. 
   Congress responded to this reluctance to abide by congressional intent through the passage of the 1994 amendments. The Governmental Affairs Committee report on the amendments rebutted prior interpretations by the Federal Circuit, the Merit Systems Protection Board, and the Office of Special Counsel that there were exceptions to ``any.'' The Committee report concluded, ``The plain language of the Whistleblower Protection Act extends to retaliation for `any disclosure,' regardless of the setting of the disclosure, the form of the disclosure, or the person to whom the disclosure is made.'' 
   I am pleased to note that since the enactment of the 1994 amendments, both the Office of the Special Counsel and the Merit Systems Protection Board generally have honored congressional boundaries. However, the Federal Circuit continues to disregard clear statutory language that the Act covers disclosures made to supervisors, to possible wrongdoers (Horton v. Dept. of Navy 66 F.3d 279, 1995), or as part of their job duties. (Willis v. Dept. of Agriculture, 141 F.3d 1139, 1998). 
   In order to protect the statute's cornerstone that ``any" lawful disclosure evidencing significant abuse is covered by the Whistleblower Protection Act, our bill would codify the repeated and unconditional statements of congressional intent and legislative history. It would amend sections 2302(b)(8)(A) and 2302(b)(8)(B) of title 5, U.S.C. to protect any disclosure of information. This would be without restriction to time, place, form, motive or context, made to any audience unless specifically excluded in section 2302(b)(8) by an employee or applicant, including a disclosure made in the ordinary course of an employee's duties, which the employee or applicant reasonably believes evidences any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or other misconduct specified in section 2302(b)(8). These include gross waste, gross mismanagement, abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public  health or safety. Consistent with current law, if the disclosure evidences a prohibited personnel practice against the employee making the disclosure, his or her remedy will continue to be available through section 2302(b)(9), rather than section 2302(b)(8). 
   The exceptions resulting from the Federal Circuit's rulings defeat the underlying good government goals of the Whistleblower Protection Act by removing protection where it counts the most: for federal employees, who acting as public servants, are carrying out their responsibilities to the public as employees of their agencies. By stripping protection from in-house disclosures, the Federal Circuit imposed loopholes that chill employees from working within their agencies to address potential waste, mismanagement, or abuse issues. If employees seek to solve problems within the chain of command, they could forfeit their rights to whistleblower protection from subsequent retaliation under the Court's rulings in Horton and Willis. To maintain protection against reprisal, federal employees must now bypass normal organizational activities responsible for implementing the law. Moreover, the loophole created by Willis removes protection when employees are performing their job duties. Because of the Court's rulings, the intent of the Act to create an environment where federal employees can safely serve the public on the job has been compromised. 
   Secondly, the legislation would institutionalize a principle currently expressed by a ban on spending on enforcement of any nondisclosure agreement that does not contain language specifically protecting an employee's rights under various open government statutes. This includes the Whistleblower Protection Act, the Military Whistleblower Protection Act, and the Lloyd Lafollette Act, which prohibits discrimination against government employees who communicate with Congress. This prohibition has been passed on an annual basis since 1988 as part of the yearly appropriations process. Our bill would make it a prohibited personnel practice to take a personnel action implementing or enforcing nondisclosure rules without specific notice of the listed statutes and their supremacy in the event of a conflict. 
   The appropriations provision, known as the ``anti-gag statute,'' has proved effective against attempts by agencies to override the Whistleblower Protection Act through prior restraint. The law originally passed as a spending control against abuses of national security secrecy, in which as a procedural prerequisite for security clearances, employees had to waive their constitutional and statutory free speech rights. Since its passage, however, it has been useful against gag orders in broad areas of specific and generic public concerns, including gag orders imposed as a precondition for employment and resolution of disputes, as well as general agency policies barring employees from communicating directly with Congress or the public. Prior restraint not only has a severe chilling effect, but strikes at the heart of this body's ability to perform its oversight duties by negating the repeatedly reaffirmed unequivocal congressional policy that whistleblowers have the right to make protected disclosures anonymously as a way to prevent retaliation. 
   Disclosing classified information is prohibited by law except to specific audiences listed in section 2302 and would not be a protected disclosure under this legislation. Nor would this legislation require the Merit System Protection Board to review security clearance determinations. The Supreme Court clearly spoke on this issue in Dept. of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518 (1988), which found that denial of a security clearance is not . . . an ``adverse action.'' The Court upheld the Board's jurisdiction over due process procedures underlying a clearance decision. Egan stands as a bright line test, and if an employee requests review of the substantive judgments underlying a security clearance, OSC examiners, administrative judges, and members of the MSPB would be justified in denying jurisdiction. However, the Board could have jurisdiction if an employee complained that he or she suffered a prohibited personnel practice, because he or she was forced to sign an illegal nondisclosure agreement or its terms were enforced, regardless of context. 
   Congress repeatedly has reaffirmed its intent that employees should not be forced to sign agreements that supercede an employee's rights under good government statutes. Moreover, Congress has unanimously supported the concept that federal employees should not be subject to prior restraint from disclosing wrongdoing nor suffer retaliation for speaking out. 
   Lastly, the bill provides the Special Counsel with authority to appear and represent the interests of the Office of Special Counsel in civil actions brought in connection with the exercise of its authority to protect the merit system against prohibited personnel practices under section 2302(b)(8) and violations of the Hatch Act. It also gives the Special Counsel the right to seek review of decisions by the Merit Systems Protection Board before the Federal Circuit where the Special Counsel determines that the Board issued an erroneous decision in a whistleblower retaliation case or in a case arising under the Hatch Act, or that the Board's decision will have a substantial impact on the enforcement of those laws. 
   Under the bill, in Board cases in which the Special Counsel was not a party, the Special Counsel must first petition the Board for reconsideration of its decision before seeking review. The Court of Appeals shall grant petitions for review by the Special Counsel at its discretion. 
   This additional authority would enable the Office of Special Counsel to fulfill its statutory missions more effectively to protect federal whistleblowers against retaliation and to enforce the Hatch Act. While OSC, under current law, has a central role as public prosecutor in cases before the Merit Systems Protection Board, it in no way authorizes OSC to seek judicial review of an MSPB decision that the Special Counsel considers erroneous. Our legislation recognizes that providing the Special Counsel the authority to seek such review--in precedential cases--is crucial to ensuring the promotion of the public interests furthered by these statutes. 
   Moreover, under existing law, the Special Counsel cannot appear to represent himself or herself as a party, or even as an amicus curiae, where another party has invoked the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals in a whistleblower retaliation or Hatch Act case. As a result, the Special Counsel, who Congress intended would be a vigorous, independent advocate for protection of the merit system, cannot participate at all in the arena in which the law is largely shaped: the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. This bill reflects our conviction that the public interests underlying the whistleblower retaliation laws and the Hatch Act are best served by ensuring that the Special Counsel's views are considered by the Court in important cases. 
   Mr. President, there is significant history that defines congressional intent with respect to ensuring that federal whistleblowers are protected from retaliatory measures. It is my intention that this bill will begin the needed dialogue to guarantee that any disclosures within the boundaries of the statutory language are protected. As the ranking member of the Federal Services Subcommittee, I will seek hearings in the next Congress on the Whistleblower Protection Act and the amendments I am proposing today. It is my intention to request a hearing that would be independent of any reauthorization hearing held for the MSPB and the OSC, both of whose authority expires in 2002. 
   There is strong support for the legislation Senator LEVIN and I are introducing today. I ask unanimous consent, in addition to the text of the bill, that I be allowed to insert into the RECORD immediately following my statement, a petition signed by the heads of 72 organizations urging Congress to restore the Whistleblower Protection Act to its 1994 boundaries. Among the 70-plus groups that support this effort are the AFL-CIO, American Federation of Government Employees, Blacks in Government, National Association of Treasury Agents, National Treasury Employees Union, Common Cause, and the Federation of American Scientists. I also wish to extend my appreciation to the Special Counsel and the Acting Chair of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the technical assistance they provided. Lastly, I would  like to commend the Government Accountability Project for its dedication and perseverance over the years. Since 1977, GAP has sought to protect the public interest and promote government accountability by defending whistleblowers. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in the effort to ensure that congressional intent embodied in the Whistleblower Protection Act is codified to ensure that the law is not weakened further. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today with Senator MURKOWSKI and Senator BINGAMAN, Chairman and Ranking Member of Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, my colleague on the Committee, Senator BAYH, my friend from Nevada, Senator REID, and my senior colleague from Hawaii, Senator INOUYE, to introduce legislation that will accelerate the ongoing efforts for the development of a fuel for the future--hydrogen. Hydrogen is an efficient and environmentally friendly energy carrier that can be obtained using conventional or renewable resources. There is strong evidence that hydrogen can be a solution for America's long-term energy needs. 
   All indications suggest that America's summer of discontent is going to continue and become the winter of discontent with respect to energy prices. Americans have paid record-breaking prices at the pump this summer. They will continue to suffer escalating prices this winter too. Higher energy prices hit most those Americans who can afford it the least. 
   Our Nation is heavily dependent on fossil fuels. We rely on imports to meet our needs. Our dependence on imported oil has been increasing for years. Oil imports have been rising for the past two decades. The combination of lower domestic production and increased demand has led to imports making up a larger share of total oil consumed in the United States. In 1992, crude oil imports accounted for approximately 45 percent of our domestic demand. Last year crude oil imports amounted for 58 percent. The Energy Information Administration's Short-Term Outlook forecasts that oil imports will exceed 60 percent of total demand this year. EIA's long-term forecasts have oil imports constituting 66 percent of U.S. supply by 2010, and more than 71 percent by 2000. 
   Continued reliance on such large quantities of imported oil will frustrate our efforts to develop a national energy policy and set the stage for energy emergencies in the future. 
   Mr. President, the way to improve our energy outlook is to adopt energy conservation, encourage energy efficiency, and support renewable energy programs. Above all, we must develop energy resources that diversify our energy mix and strengthen our energy security. 
   Now is the time to increase our efforts to develop new sources of energy. Growing evidence points to hydrogen as a fuel to resolve our energy problems and satisfy a wide variety of the world's energy needs. 
   Hydrogen as a fuel is not a new concept. For more than two decades there has been global interest in hydrogen as a renewable fuel. Progress is being made at an accelerating pace. Fuel cells for distributed stationary power are being commercialized and installed in various locations in the United States and worldwide. Transit bus demonstrations are underway in both the United States and Europe. Major automobile companies are poised to deploy fuel cell passengers cars within the next few years. All these activities involve government and private sector cooperation. 
   But many problems and challenges remain. Hydrogen production costs from both fossil and renewable energy sources remain high. Attractive low-cost storage technologies are not available. There is an inadequate infrastructure. 
   We need to address these challenges and barriers if we are to enjoy the fruits of an efficient and environmentally friendly energy source. This Senator believes that an aggressive research and development program can help us overcome many of these challenges such as bringing down the production costs from fossil and renewable sources, by advancing storage technologies, and addressing safety concerns with efforts in establishing codes and standards. 
   Our Nation needs an active and focused research, development, and demonstration program to make the breakthroughs necessary to make hydrogen a viable source of energy. 
   My predecessor, Senator Spark Matsunaga was one of the first to focus attention on hydrogen by sponsoring hydrogen research legislation. The Matsunaga Hydrogen Act, as this legislation has come to be known, was designed to accelerate development of domestic capability to produce an economically renewable energy source in sufficient quantities to reduce the Nation's dependence on conventional fuels. As a result of Senator Matsunaga's vision, the Department of Energy has been conducting research that will advance technologies for cost-effective production, storage, and utilization of hydrogen. The Hydrogen Future Act of 1996 expanded the research, and development, and demonstration program under the Matsunaga Act. It authorized activities leading to production, storage, transformation, and use of hydrogen for industrial, residential, transportation, and utility applications. 
   My good friend and former colleague in the House, Representative George E. Brown, Jr., was instrumental in the introduction and passage of the Hydrogen Future Act. Serving as the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Science Committee, Congressman Brown earned a reputation as a true champion and advocate for science. He was an early supporter of hydrogen as a source of energy. He was the principal sponsor of the companion legislation to Senator Matsunaga's bill in the House. Congressman Brown passed away on July 15, 1999. 
   Mr. President, the legislation I am introducing today reauthorizes and amends the Hydrogen Future Act of 1996. I propose that Congress dedicate this legislation to 
   George Brown's memory and cite the Act as George E. Brown, Jr. Hydrogen Future Act. 
   The legislation I am introducing today is consistent with the thinking of experts who have looked at this issue. The President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) issued a report titled ``Federal Energy Research and Development for the Challenges of the Twenty-First Century'' in response to a request from President Clinton to review the national energy R&D portfolio and make recommendations on how to ensure that the U.S. has a program that addresses its energy needs for the next century. In its report issued in November 1997, PCAST proposed a substantial increase in Federal spending for applied energy technology R&D, with the largest share going to energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies. This was a major change in focus. With this new R&D emphasis, the PCAST report acknowledges and supports advances in a wide range of both hydrogen-producing and hydrogen-using technologies. The bill I am introducing today supports the recommendations of PCAST. 
   The Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel (HTAP) was established pursuant to the Spark Matsunaga Hydrogen Act. The panel's primary functions are to advise the Secretary of Energy on the  implementation and conduct of the Department of Energy's Hydrogen Program and to review and make recommendations on the economic, technical, and environmental consequences of deploying hydrogen energy systems. The Hydrogen Future Act gave additional functions to HTAP. The Act requires HTAP to evaluate the effectiveness of the Department's Hydrogen Program and make recommendations for improvements. HTAP is also required to make recommendations for future legislation. 
   The panel, appointed by the Secretary of Energy, has broad representation from industry, government, and academia. While some members of the panel represent the hydrogen community, others represent fossil energy, industrial gases, transportation, and environment groups--areas affected by the development and deployment of hydrogen energy systems. This mix provides the panel with a balanced perspective that allows diversity of viewpoints. Members serve on a pro-bono basis. 
   HTAP, in its report to Congress has strongly endorsed reauthorizing the Hydrogen Future Act. Today's bill reflects most of the recommendations of this expert body. 
   The long-term vision for hydrogen energy is that sometime well into 21st century, hydrogen will join electricity as one of our Nation's primary energy carriers, and hydrogen will ultimately be produced from renewable sources. But fossil fuels will be a significant long-term transitional resource. In the next twenty years, increasing concerns about global climate changes and energy security concerns will help bring about penetration of hydrogen in several niche markets. The growth of fuel cell technology will allow the introduction of hydrogen in both transportation and electricity sectors. 
   We are a long way from realizing this vision for hydrogen energy. But progress is being made and many challenges and barriers remain. Sustained effort is the only way to overcome these challenges and barriers. We need to support a strategy that focuses on mid-term and long-term goals. We must support development of technologies that enable distributed electric-generation fuel cell systems and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles for transportation applications. For the long-term, we should look to hydrogen technologies that enhance renewable systems and offer society the promise of clean, abundant fuels. 
   Significant forces are coming together that may accelerate wider acceptance of hydrogen as an energy source. Industry is moving ahead with fuel cell developments at a rapid pace. Many companies are forming partnerships to bring new technologies to the market place. Daimler-Chrysler, Ford, and Ballard have formed a partnership and pledged $1.5 billion for commercialization of automotive fuel cells. Edison Development Company, General Electric, SoCal Gas, and Plug Power have agreement to commercialize residential fuel cells. There are other companies pursuing the same market sector and are developing high performance fuel cell technology for automotive and electrical generation systems. 
   Initiatives for controls of emissions from automobiles such as California's zero emissions vehicle requirements favor early introduction of hydrogen powered vehicles. There is significant industry interest in bringing fuel cell technology to mining operations. 
   The Department of Energy administers the Hydrogen Program that supports a broad range of research and development projects in the areas of hydrogen production, storage, and use in a safer and less expensive manner in the near future. Progress in several research and development areas shows promise that some of these new technologies may become available for wider use in the next few years. Some of the promising technologies include advanced natural gas- and biomass-based hydrogen production technologies, high pressure gaseous and cryogas storage systems, reversible PEM fuel cell systems. Others lay the groundwork for long range opportunities. 
   The Hydrogen Program utilizes the talents of our national laboratories and our universities. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Sandia, Lawrence Livermore, Los Alamos, and Oak Ridge, as well as Jet Propulsion Laboratory are involved in the program. DOE Field Office at Golden, Colorado, and Nevada Operations Office in Nevada are also involved. University-led centers-of-excellence have been established at Florida Solar Energy Center at University of Miami and University of Hawaii. The U.S. participation in the International Energy Agency contributes to the advancement of DOE hydrogen research through international cooperation. 
   The DOE Hydrogen Program is well managed and run by dedicated managers and capable and talented technologists. The program has also built strong links with the industry. This has resulted in strong industry participation and cost sharing. HTAP, in its review of the program reached similar conclusions. 
   The legislation I am introducing today reauthorizes the Hydrogen Future Act and adds provisions for the demonstration of hydrogen technologies at government facilities. It highlights the potential of hydrogen as an efficient and environmentally friendly source of energy, the need for a strong partnership between the Federal government, industry, and academia, and the importance of continued support for hydrogen research. It fosters collaboration between Federal agencies, state and local governments, universities, and industry. It encourages private sector investment and cost sharing in the development of hydrogen as an energy source. 
   The legislation authorizes $250 million over the next five years for research and development of technologies for hydrogen production, storage and use. This will allow advancement of technologies such as smaller-scale production systems that are applicable to distributed-generation and vehicle applications, advanced pressure vessels, photobiological and photocatalytic production of hydrogen, and carbon nanotubes, graphite nanofibers, and fullerenes. 
   It also authorizes $50 million for conducting integrated demonstrations of hydrogen technologies at government facilities. This will help secure industry participation through competitive solicitations for technology development and testing. It may encourage integration of renewable energy resources with hydrogen storage in distributed power scenarios. It will test the viability of hydrogen production, storage, and use. It will lead to development of hydrogen-based operating experience acceptable to meet safety codes and standards. 
   By supporting the development of hydrogen technologies, we will be ushering in an era of a non-polluting source of energy that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil. The price we will pay for development of this clean and renewable energy is minuscule compared to the benefits. And Mr. President, if we develop hydrogen technologies, we will be less likely to be held hostage by our friends in the Middle East. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to commend the joint efforts of the federal Department of Health and Human Services, HHS, the Honolulu Emergency Services Department, and Hawaii's Department of Health, and National Guard for establishing one of the Nation's premier weapons of mass destruction, WMD, containment, mitigation and response capabilities. As the ranking member of the Governmental Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services, I follow Federal terrorism defense programs closely, especially those that affect Hawaii. 
   Terrorism, particularly the threat of domestic terrorism, remains at the forefront of concern for all of us. Although it has been 7 years since the terrorist bombing of the World Trade Center and 5 years since the destruction of the Oklahoma City Federal Building, these unspeakable atrocities left an indelible mark in the hearts of all Americans. In the intervening years, the threat of terrorism has become more pronounced. The National Commission on Terrorism recently concluded that ``..... international terrorism poses an increasingly dangerous and difficult threat to America--today's terrorists seek to inflict mass casualties, and they are attempting to do so both overseas and on American soil. This was underscored by the December 1999 arrests in Jordan and at the U.S./Canadian border of foreign nationals who were allegedly planning to  attack crowded millennium celebrations.'' Fortunately, we have made signifcant strides in enhancing our defense against and reducing our vulnerabilities to terrorism. 
   The Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996, Public Law 104-201, Nunn-Lugar-Domenici amendment, authorized a coordinated Federal response to train, equip, and otherwise enhance the capability of Federal, State, and local emergency ``first responders,'' e.g., primarily police, fire, and emergency medical officers, for terrorist incidents involving mass casualties, or nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons. Most of our current antiterrorism programs are outgrowths of this landmark legislation. 
   More than 40 Federal departments, agencies, and bureaus have some role in combating terrorism. The Justice Department, through the FBI, is the lead Federal agency for domestic terrorism and provides on-site emergency law enforcement response to all incidents. However, State and local governments and emergency responders bear the primary responsibility for responding to terrorist incidents, augmented by Federal resources. Therefore, Federal, State, and local coordination and cooperation is critical to ensuring that our population centers are properly safeguarded. I am particularly pleased with terrorism preparedness efforts in Hawaii, which have been hailed by HHS as ``exemplary'' and ``national models.'' 
   Two little known, but essential components of the national antiterrorism program and support to local communities are Civil Support Teams, CSTs, and Metropolitan Medical Response Systems, MMRS. 
   Hawaii's Civil Support Team is one of 27 Army and Air National Guard CSTs that will be deployed in 26 States by the spring of 2001. Each team consists of 22 members who undergo 15 months of specialized training. Each team is equipped with a mobile analytical lab and a communications facility. Teams would be deployed to assist first responders in the event of a WMD incident. The teams, under the command of a State's governor, provide support to civilian agencies to assess the nature of an attack, provide medical and technical advice, and help coordinate subsequent State and Federal responses. Hawaii's Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team, the 93rd WMD-CST, is a composite Army/Air National Guard Unit, and component of the Hawaii Army National Guard, Headquarters, State Area Command. The team is currently undergoing training at Fort Leonard Wood, MO, and is expected to be fully trained and deployed by May 2001. 
   In 1997, Honolulu was selected as one of the first 25 cities in the Nation to contract with HHS to develop a Metropolitan Medical Response System and procure essential prophylactic pharmaceuticals and specialized equipment. MMRS are multi-disciplinary medical teams consisting of physicians, nurses, paramedics, emergency medical technicians, and law enforcement officers, who provide initial on-site response and care, provide for safe patient transportation to hospital emergency rooms, provide definitive medical and mental health care to victims of various types of attack, and can prepare patients for onward movement to other regions, should this be required In August 2000, the HHS expanded Hawaii's MMRS program by directing and funding an assessment of the unique needs of geographically isolated jurisdictions and an evaluation of long-term sustainment of the MMRS. Both studies will serve as national models. This is a further testament of the quality of Hawaii's MMRS program and highly complimentary of the personnel involved in its development. 
   Fortunately, terrorism involving the use of weapons of mass destruction is likely to remain rare. Nevertheless, as in the case of other low probability/high consequence risks, it remains a very serious and highly complex national concern. The precautionary safeguards we have taken thus far are essential and prudent, but offer no guarantees. We need to remain vigilant and ensure that our antiterrorism and counter terrorism programs continue to be properly funded, adequately maintained, and adjusted to meet the ever evolving threat. The American public demands no less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I call attention to a report prepared at my request by the Library of Congress' Congressional Research Service entitled ``China's Foreign Conventional Arms Acquisitions: Background and Analysis.'' As ranking member of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services of the Governmental Affairs Committee, I have been keenly interested in the implications of Chinese conventional force modernization on Asian stability. 
   I am providing copies of this excellent analysis, which was authorized by Shirley Kan, Christopher Bolkcom, and Ronald O'Rourke, to all Senators. I believe my colleagues will find the report useful and insightful as we assess American policy towards China. 
   The report examines the major foreign conventional weapon systems that China has acquired or has committed to acquire since 1990, with particular attention to implications for U.S. security concerns. It pays special attention to Chinese air and naval acquisitions and describes how Chinese leaders began to pay greater attention to modernizing the People's Liberation Army, PLA, in the early 1990s, transforming it from a force mainly oriented towards domestic security to one focused on modern warfare. Since then, China has ranked among the top 10 leading arms buyers among developing nations. 
   According to the analysis, the catalyst for PLA modernization, including the procurement of advanced foreign military equipment, was China's view that its top security problem was preventing Taiwan's permanent separation and securing unification as ``one China.'' However, additional security goals may be precluding Japan's rise as the strongest Asian power, ensuring Chinese influence over the Korean Peninsula, supporting Chinese claims to territory in the East and South China Seas, subduing India's quest for power, and countering American power in the region. 
   As China modernizes its forces, it is clear that arms sales from Russia are essential, providing advance aircraft, including Su-27 fighters, missile systems, submarines, and surface ships. The report is unclear as to the strategic advantage derived by Russia in selling such advanced systems to a country with which it historically has had difficulty along a shared border. 
   The report concludes that the operational significance of these major qualitative upgrades through foreign arms acquisitions remains to be seen and will depend in large measure on the PLA's ability to demonstrate an ability to conduct effective joint military operations. 
   The report also does an excellent job of comparing Chinese new conventional weapons to American capabilities, suggesting that in most cases--with some critical exceptions--American forces still retain a tactical and strategic edge. For example, the report mentions the potential threat from a nuclear armed SS-N-22, an anti-ship cruise missile, and the superior capabilities of the Su-27 fighter aircraft. Obviously, the United States should not be complacent. The Chinese are, for the first time in modern history, developing a capability to project air and naval forces beyond their coastal areas. The Untied States needs to seek ways to address any threat to American interests as a result of that capability not only through pursuing our own military modernization program but also through a strategic dialogue with China which reassures China that we  have a shared desire in regional stability. Indeed, in many ways, initiating a productive diplomatic dialogue with China on Asian security may be more difficult than maintaining our qualitative edge on power projection. 
   Again, I commend this excellent report by the Congressional Research Service which was coordinated by Shirley Kan, a specialist in National Security Policy. It is one of the most comprehensive, unclassified assessments currently available on Chinese conventional arms acquisitions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, Benjamin Franklin once described how ``for want of nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of a horse the rider was lost.'' 
   I wish to call the Senate's attention today to a similar situation. For $13 million, we could help prevent hundreds of millions of dollars in losses from forest fires. 
   This case involves a Federal program which can help detect wild fires and volcanic activity from space. It is a small program that has been in a pilot phase for a couple of years but which is now operational. Except it is not operating. It stopped when funding for it ended on September 30, 2000. Unfortunately, funds to keep it going have not been authorized or appropriated for the next fiscal year. 
   The program, which only recently came to my attention, is called the Hazard Support System. It is operated by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and is a forceful example of how today's modern technologies can be employed to the benefit of us all. 
   For several years, our fire and volcanic agencies have been working with the Department of Defense to realize the potential dual use of the nation's ballistic missile warning satellites to argument existing fire detection and suppression capabilities and to monitor global volcanic activity. 
   We have heard a great deal about fires over the past few months. On average there about 100,000 wildland fires in the United States each year, destroying millions of acres of timber, rangeland, and homes at the cost of hundred of millions of dollars. In 1994, federal fire suppression cost $920 million. 
   Here is a system--the Hazard Support System--which can detect fires of less than a quarter acre in size and dispatch warnings via the Internet to fire fighters in five minutes, saving potentially millions of dollars--not to mention people's homes--and it is not being funded. 
   The system's utility is not limited to forest fires but also can be used to detect volcanic eruptions and to track ash clouds. 
   One can ask why should we care about tracking ash clouds? 
   Imagine cruising through an ash cloud in a airplane at 30,000 feet above Alaska: volcanic ash is sucked into the jet's engines where it instantly melts, coating the inside of the engines, cutting off the flow of oxygen, and causing the engines to stall. The plane drops to 10,000 feet where the engines restart only because the rapid descent has dislodged the ash crust. This actually happened to an aircraft in Alaska. 
   Jet radars and weather satellites cannot detect ash clouds. To these systems, ash looks like water vapor. With ash from volcanic explosions traveling around the world at high altitudes, we cannot fly safely unless we have the ability to track these clouds. Every year about 10 volcanic eruptions penetrate the altitude range of air traffic. Seven passenger airliners have experienced engine power losses, and plane repair and replacement costs, as of 1994, exceeded $200 million. 
   Most of the world's volcanoes can erupt without warning. There is no global volcano monitoring capability. Currently, less than half of America's 65 potentially active volcanoes are monitored for signs of activity--but not their ash clouds. We have active volcanoes in Alaska, Washington, Oregon, California, and Hawaii. Most of the volcanoes in the Aleutian Islands are active but, along this major international airline route, only 10 percent of these volcanoes are monitored. Only 10 percent of the world's 1,500 potentially active volcanoes are under constant surveillance. 
   The USGS' Hazard Support System fuses the fire- and volcanic-activity detection capabilities of the world's environmental weather satellites with that of our ballistic missile warning satellites--without affecting their primary national security mission--to provide 24-hour worldwide detection. 
   The cost of this system for its first year would be $13.5 million and $5 million thereafter. The benefits of this program for states in the Western part of the United States are obvious. I have been assured by the Administration that the only reason funding for this program was not requested for the next fiscal year was because, at the time of the budget preparation, the system was not yet operational. It is now operational and proven. 
   I intend to seek funding for a small program with a huge return in protecting Americans from future forest fires and the danger of catastrophic airline crashes. I would urge my colleagues to join me in support of this program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to commend employees of the many Federal departments and agencies responsible for the impressive preliminary work on establishing a Global Disaster Information Network, GDIN. 
   As a member of the Governmental Affairs Committee, which authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, I take a keen interest in the way in which institutions in the federal government respond to disasters. I am struck by the tremendous potential advanced technologies, including satellite imaging, the Worldwide Web, and computer data systems can play in improving our responsiveness to natural disasters. 
   Much of the credit is due to the visionary leadership of Vice President GORE for directing GDIN's development and for recognizing the potential for harnessing current day technologies in an unprecedented and innovative way. 
   GDIN represents a coordinated effort among the Nation's federal disaster agencies, intelligence agencies, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, academia, and industry, and their international counterparts, to utilize existing and emerging information technology more effectively to provide key decision makers with information critical for reducing loss from natural disasters. As a result of GDIN, the availability of critical disaster response, recovery, mitigation and preparedness information is now greater than ever before. 
   Domestic disasters are estimated to cost an average of $54.3 billion, causing 510 deaths per year. International disasters kill more than 133,000 people and cost more than $440 billion in property damage. The added costs of widespread human suffering and political instability are incalculable. 
   The current capabilities of GDIN are impressive, but future capabilities and possibilities hold even greater promise. GDIN's development exemplifies the best international collaborative efforts between government and industry and illustrates the innovation possible only in this great technological age. Surprisingly, GDIN has received scant attention by the American public or the media. 
   Prior to GDIN, there was no common approach to accessing a single source for the broad range of information needed for natural disaster reduction or aids to help integrate information from many diverse sources. Relevant information was difficult to locate or use effectively. Disaster managers worldwide were consistently frustrated by poor telecommunications and inadequate infrastructure. 
   In February 1997, Vice President GORE wrote to key Federal departments and agencies requesting a feasibility study for establishing a global disaster information network, through the integration of the Internet and other emerging technologies, to improve preparedness and responsiveness to natural or environmental disasters. A Federal task force was formed to explore public/private partnerships to make the concept a reality. In April 2000, President Clinton issued Executive Order 13151, formally creating GDIN and setting operational objectives. 
   A key objective of GDIN is to promote the United States as an example and leader in the development and dissemination of disaster information, both domestically and abroad, and to seek cooperation with foreign governments and international organizations. Continued Federal leadership is essential to its continued success. The creation of a highly sophisticated and widely distributed knowledge base, encompassing common systems of measurements, methods of data visualization and exploitation, information analysis, event forecasting, knowledge modeling, and data and information management, remains key to successful future development. 
   For example, in 1997, the region of Grand Forks, North Dakota suffered losses greater than $400 million when the Red River rose. In order to predict flood areas accurately, we need a system that can overlay information not only on water levels and rates but also the surrounding infrastructure of levies and roads, which affect the flow of water. 
   A positive example of data integration was in the 1996 fire in Mendocino, California, in which data from the Landsat Thematic Mapper, Digital Elevation Models, infrared scanners, information from National Technical Means, and field reports were used to assess fire damage, as well as the potential for erosion and new growth. Additional information on rangeland, wildlife habitats, and recreational needs were included to build a comprehensive plan for re-vegetation resulting in a plan by the U.S. Forest Service, which is estimated to have saved $250 million by more efficient planting. 
   These are isolated examples. The program, both nationally and internationally, is still in its infancy. The information is there but the way to access it is still a work in progress. Unfortunately, on the domestic front there has been a lack of support in some circles for this program. Such lack of support is deplorable. The need to find more effective ways to respond to disasters in the United States must be above partisan politics. 
   We live in truly amazing times. Rapid improvements in communications, the Internet, space imagery, remote sensing, global positioning technologies, and early warning forecasting hold promise to continue to revolutionize disaster management and therefore save lives and reduce human suffering in very significant ways. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   September 27, 1999: Jermaine Allen, 26, Baltimore, MD; John Arcady, 49, Cincinnati, OH; Nathaniel Ball, 61, Tulsa, OK; Patrick Penson, 18, Fort Worth, TX; Eric Shine, 29, Charlotte, NC; Kevin Woods, 37, St. Louis, MO. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Guam Omnibus Opportunities Act, which seeks to address important issues to the people of Guam dealing with land, economic development and social issues. On July 25, the House passed similar legislation, H.R. 2462, which was introduced by Congressman ROBERT UNDERWOOD, the Delegate from Guam. During the 105th Congress, the Senate passed similar provisions of H.R. 2462 as part of S. 210, an omnibus territories bill. 
   There are several provisions of the Guam Omnibus Opportunities Act. First, Section 2 of the bill provides a process for the Government of Guam to receive lands from the U.S. government for specified public purposes by giving Guam the right of first refusal for declared federal excess lands by the General Services Administration prior to it being made available to any other federal agency. It also provides for a process for the Government of Guam and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to engage in negotiations on the future ownership and management of declared federal excess lands within the Guam National Wildlife Refuge. 
   Section 3 provides the Government of Guam with the authority to tax foreign investors at the same rates as states under U.S. tax treaties with foreign countries since Guam cannot change the withholding tax rate on its own under current law. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, there is a 30 percent withholding tax rate for foreign investors in the United States. Since Guam's tax law ``mirrors'' the rate established under the U.S. Code, the standard rate of foreign investors in Guam is 30 percent. It is a common feature in U.S. tax treaties for countries to negotiate lower withholding rates on investment returns. Unfortunately, while there are different definitions for the term ``United States'' under these treaties, Guam is not included. This omission has adversely impacted Guam since 75 percent of Guam's commercial development is funded by foreign investors. As an example, with Japan, the U.S. rate for foreign investors is 10 percent. This means that while Japanese investors are taxed at a 10 percent withholding tax rate on their investments in the fifty states, those same investors are taxed at a 30 percent withholding rate on Guam. 
   While the long-term solution is for U.S. negotiators to include Guam in the definition of the term ``United States'' for all future tax treaties, the immediate solution is to amend the Organic Act of Guam and authorize the Government of Guam to tax foreign investors at the same rates as the fifty states. It is my understanding that all other U.S. territories have remedied this problem in one way or another. Therefore, Guam is the only U.S. jurisdiction in the country that is not extended tax equity for foreign investors. 
   With an unemployment rate of 15 percent, Guam continues to struggle economically due to the Asian financial crisis. That is why I believe it is vitally important for the federal government to assist Guam in stimulating its economy through sound federal policies and technical assistance. This section would greatly assist the Government of Guam in promoting economic development on the island and would provide long needed tax equity. 
   Section 4 considers Guam within the U.S. Customs zone in the treatment of betel nuts, which are part of Chamorro tradition and culture. While betel nuts are grown in the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has an important alert for betel nuts from foreign countries in place due to the influx of betel nuts from Asian countries for commercial consumption and the FDA's contention that the betel nut is ``adulterated.'' This means an automatic detention of betel nuts by U.S. Customs agents when entering the United States. Although Guam is a U.S. territory, Guam is considered to be outside the U.S. Customs zone. Betel nuts grown in Guam, therefore, are subject to the FDA ban in the same manner as foreign countries. This section narrowly applies to Guam, limits use to personal consumption, and ensure that the FDA ban against foreign countries remains in place. 
   Section 5 empowers the governors of the territories and the State of Hawaii to report to the Secretary of the Interior on the financial and social impacts of the Compacts of Free Association on their respective jurisdictions and requires that the Secretary forward Administration comments and recommendations on the report to Congress. This is an important issue to the State of Hawaii as the numbers of migrants to Hawaii from the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau continue to grow. The State of Hawaii has spent well over $14 million in public funds in the past year alone, with most of the funds being spent on our educational and health care systems. 
   Under the compact agreements, the Federal government made clear that it would compensate jurisdictions affected, yet the State of Hawaii has not received federal funding since the implementation of these agreements. This section seeks to improve the reporting requirements for Compact Impact Aid to address this situation. 
   Section 6 establishes a five-member Guam War Claims Review Commission to be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior. The goal of the Commission is to review the facts and circumstances surrounding U.S. restitution to Guamanians who suffered compensable injury during the occupation of Guam by Japan during World War II. Compensable injury includes death, personal injury, or forced labor, forced march, or internment. The Commission would review the relevant historical facts and determine the eligible claimants, the eligibility requirements, and the total amount necessary for compensation, and report its findings and recommendations for action to Congress nine months after the Commission is established. 
   The 1951 Treaty of Peace between the U.S. and Japan effectively barred  claims by U.S. citizens against Japan. As a consequence, the U.S. inherited these claims, which was acknowledged by Secretary of State John Foster Dulles when the issue was raised during consideration of the treaty before the Committee on Foreign Relations in 1952. 
   Considerable historical information indicates that the United States intended to remedy the issue of war restitution for the people of Guam. In 1945, the Guam Meritorious Claims Act was enacted which authorized the Navy to adjudicate and settle war claims in Guam for property damage for a period of one year. Claims in access of $5,000 for personal injury or death were to be forwarded to Congress. Unfortunately, the Act never fulfilled its intended purposes due to the limited time frame for claims and the preoccupation of the local population with recovery from the war, resettlement of their homes, and rebuilding their lives. 
   On March 25, 1947, the Hopkins Commission, a civilian commission appointed by the Navy Secretary, issued a report which revealed the flaws of the 1945 Guam Meritorious Claims Act and recommended that the Act be amended to provide on the spot settlement and payment of all claims, both property and for the death and personal injury. 
   Despite the recommendations of the Hopkins Commission, the U.S. government failed to remedy the flaws of the Guam Meritorious Act when it enacted the War Claims Act of 1948, legislation which provided compensations for U.S. citizens who were victims of the Japanese war effort during World War II. Guamanians were U.S. nationals at the time of the enactment of the War Claims Act, thereby making them ineligible for compensation. In 1950, with the enactment of the Organic Act of Guam, Guamanians became U.S. citizens. 
   In 1962, Congress again attempted to address the remaining circumstances of U.S. citizens and nationals that had not received reparations from previous enacted laws. Once again, however, the Guamanians were inadvertently made ineligible because policymakers assumed that the War Claims Act of 1948 included them. Section 6 brings closure to this longstanding issue. 
   In summary, Mr. President, the Guam Omnibus Opportunities Act will go a long way toward resolving issues that the Federal Government has been working on with the Government of Guam on land, economic development and social issues. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to resolve these issues to assist Guam in achieving greater economic self-sufficiency. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I cosponsor the Omnibus Long-term Care Act of 2000, introduced by Senator GRAHAM. The cosponsors of this legislation are well-known for their commitment to encouraging all Americans to prepare for their own long-term needs. 
   Many Americans mistakenly believe that Medicare and their regular health insurance programs will pay for long-term care. They do not. Although Medicare provides some long-term care support, an individual generally must ``spend-down'' his or her income and assets to qualify for coverage. 
   More and more Americans are requiring long-term care. About 6.4 million Americans, aged 65 or older, require some long-term care due to illness or disability. Over five million children and adults under the age of 65 also require long-term care because of health conditions from birth or a chronic illness developed later in life. Only 12 percent receive care in nursing homes or other institutional settings. 
   The need for long-term care is great. In 20 years, one in six Americans will be age 65 or older. By the year 2040, the number of Americans age 85 years or older will more than triple to over 12 million. The cost of nursing home care now exceeds $40,000 per a year in most parts of the country, and home care visits for nursing or physical therapy runs about $100 per visit. In 1996, over $107 billion was spent on nursing homes and home health care. However, this figure does not take into account that over 80 percent of all long-term care services are provided by family and friends. 
   In my own state of Hawaii, 13.2 percent of the population is 65 years and older. Although Hawaii enjoys one of the highest life expectancies--79 years, compared to a national average of 75 years--the state's rapidly aging population will greatly impact available resources for long-term care, both institutional and from non-institutional sources. Hawaii's long-term care facilities are operating at full capacity. According to the Hawaii State Department of Health, the average occupancy rate peaked at 97.8 percent in 1994. But occupancy remains high. By 1997, the average occupancy dropped to 90 percent. 
   These statistics point to the overriding need to help American families provide dignified and appropriate care to their parents and relatives. We know that the demand for long-term care will increase with each passing year, and that federal, state, and local resources cannot cover the expected costs. Nursing home costs are expected to reach $97,000 by the year 2030. 
   What Congress can do, however, it make long-term care insurance available to a broad segment of the population. As the ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on Federal Services, I co-chaired a hearing on long-term care insurance on May 16, 2000. We heard testimony on S. 2420, legislation to authorize the Office of Personnel Management to contract with one or more insurance carriers for long-term care insurance for federal and military personnel and their families. As a cosponsor of that bill, I am pleased that just last night, the Senate passed our measure after substituting the text of S. 2420 under H.R. 4040, the House long-term care bill for the federal family. The bill, as amended, also includes provisions of S. 1232, the Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act, which I cosponsored with Senator COCHRAN last year. These provisions will provide relief to the estimated 20,000 federal employees who, through no fault of their own, found themselves in the wrong retirement system. H.R. 4040, as amended, offer a model for the private sector. I am delighted that similar legislation providing long-term care insurance for federal employees and military personnel is included in Senator GRAHAM's bill, and I welcome the opportunity to join with him in helping Americans meet their long-term care needs in a dignified manner. 
   The bill introduced today provides a comprehensive effort to address our citizens' long-term care needs. Among its provisions are the authorization of a phased-in tax deduction for the premiums of qualified long-term care insurance, implementation of the National Family Caregiver Support Program, restoration of $2.38 billion authorization for the Social Services Block Grant, and creation of a national public information campaign. 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to be an original sponsor of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to discuss American relations with Cuba. Recently, I had the opportunity to travel to Havana with Senators BAUCUS and ROBERTS. We spent ten hours with Fidel Castro, in what has been characterized by the press as a marathon meeting. But more importantly, we had meetings with dissidents and Catholic Church representatives. 
   It was my first time in Cuba, and I went there with no pre-conceived notions although I did have the opportunity to be thoroughly briefed prior to our departure. 
   I returned from Cuba convinced that lifting the trade embargo and restrictions on travel, especially for educational exchanges, are extremely important steps in an effort to foster economic and political liberalization in Cuba. They are important steps but not for the reasons which are generally assumed. 
   As one Cuban told us, ending the American economic embargo on Cuba will not produce economic change. The Castro government has no interest in economic reform--even along the lines of that now seen in China or Vietnam. As the Minister of Economics and Planning explained, there is no program for privatization in the economy, insisting that capitalism does not work but ``pure socialism'' does. The government allows some private investments, mainly in farming, but the intent of the State is still to control the economy. Indeed, President Castro told us that he believed Cuba could not survive if it was a member of the International Monetary Fund and called the IMF the ``world's most subversive organization.'' 
   While this was denied by the Foreign Minister, I came away convinced that the government does not want the American embargo on Cuba lifted because the lack of economic ties allows the government to blame the United States for its own economic failures. If the embargo was lifted, Cuba's leaders might find another excuse for their failed policies but it might make it harder for them to find widely acceptable excuses. 
   The Cuban people have voted already for change. Many have fled to the United States. One Cuban told us that social and economic differences are increasing. The population has declined over the last decade in part because people sadly see no future for their children. The average Cuban salary is said to be $11 per month. The Castro regime was described to us by those we spoke to in Havana as a dying dictatorship: aging, inefficient and corrupt. 
   In this environment we should not exaggerate America's influence. Castro will do everything to limit it. But we can start to build a basis for a future relationship with the Cuban people after Castro. The Congress can demonstrate our good will by a partial lifting of the trade embargo. We can demonstrate our good faith by allowing freer movement of Americans to Cuba and to do what we can to encourage Cubans, especially school children, to visit the United States on exchanges. The Congress should promote cultural ties and try to direct assistance to the Cuban people. 
   None of this will be easy. Nothing Castro said indicated to me that he was willing to permit, for example, Cuban school children to attend American elementary and secondary schools or colleges in significant numbers. Nothing Castro said indicated to me that he was willing to allow American aid, including medical supplies, to be given directly to the Cuban people. 
   But even if the hand of friendship is rejected, I believe we should still offer it. The future of Cuba is not Castro. President Castro said one clear truth: Cuba still suffers from an inherited history of four centuries of colonialism. Unfortunately, he does not understand that his form of paternal dictatorship perpetuates the same horrors he claims to abhor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000724</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read some of the names of those who lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago Friday, Saturday, Sunday and today. 
   July 21: Benjamin Brown, 42, Gary, IN; Howard Brumskill, 23, Philadelphia, PA; Preston Butler, 18, Philadelphia, PA; Jennifer Casals, 57, Miami-Dade County, FL; Steven Cooks, 27, Memphis, TN; Shena Counts, 13, Baltimore, MD; Ronnie Loundon, 25, Nashville, TN; Calvin Maclin, 42, Detroit, MI; Kevin McCarthy, 29, Philadelphia, PA; Marc Mull, 19, Chicago, IL; Tavon Price, 21, Baltimore, MD; Jessica Roman, 56, Miami-Dade County, FL; Amanda Snow, 31, Houston, TX; Unidentified male, 15, Chicago, IL. 
   July 22: Chris Cantie, 26, Philadelphia, PA; Richard JOHNSON, 28, Chicago, IL; Ignacio Molina, 28, Houston, TX; Alfonse Roberts, 20, New Orleans, LA; Andrew Sandoval, Jr., 28, Denver, CO; Thomas Correll Walker, 22, Washington, DC; Howard Westly, 22, Philadelphia, PA; Michael R. Williamson, 50, New Orleans, LA; Peter Sao Xiong, 18, St. Paul, MN; Unidentified male, 16, Portland, OR. 
   July 23: Alva Anglin, 73, Memphis, TN; Jerome Cole, 25, Nashville, TN; Kewon Core, 22, Chicago, IL; Ronald Gates, 30, Chicago, IL; Marcos Guerra, 27, Houston, TX; Leon Hunter, 26, Detroit, MI; Luther Johnson, 21, Philadelphia, PA; Darroll Love, Washington, DC; Chelsea Martin, San Francisco, CA; Keila McDonald, 20, Oakland, CA; Khorosh Merrikh, 24, Houston, TX; Kimberly D. Price, 33, Oklahoma City, OK; Gerard Ouriel Robinson, 20, Washington, DC. 
   July 24: Tyrone Blackwell, 20, Baltimore, MD; Billy Gissendanner, 30, Detroit, MI; Lorena Gonzalez, 38, Fontana, CA; Raphael Gonzalez, 57, Miami-Dade County, FL; Tyrone Green, 24, Baltimore, MD; David Rivera, 15, El Paso, TX; Sammie Simpkins, 50, Washington, DC; Ernest White, 20, Knoxville, TN; Anthony Wilson, 29, Chicago, IL. 
   One of the victims of gun violence I mentioned was 38-year-old Lorena Gonzalez of Fontana, California. Lorena was shot and killed one year ago today in front of her 2-year-old son by a man who robbed her of a mere three dollars while she was waiting in a parking lot for her husband to return from a nearby store.  
   Another gun violence victim, 29-year-old Anthony Wilson, was shot and killed one year ago today in a drive-by shooting in front of his home on the south side of Chicago. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The time has come to enact sensible gun legislation. The deaths of Lorena and Anthony are a reminder to all of us that we need to act now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleagues in honoring the memory of our dear friend and colleague, Senator Paul Coverdell. My deepest condolences and prayers go out to Nancy, his family, staff, and the people of Georgia. 
   Paul Coverdell's career in public service as a state senator in Georgia, as Director of the United States Peace Corps, and as a U.S. Senator stand as an enduring tribute to his fine character, many talents, and boundless energy and commitment for his work. They also serve to remind us how one individual, working quietly and resourcefully, can accomplish so much in an all too brief period of time. 
   In his public life, Paul Coverdell was a vigorous and congenial advocate for initiatives and issues he cared deeply about and an effective leader in the Senate and for his party. While I did not have many opportunities to work closely with Senator Coverdell, we share a commitment to quality education for our Nation's young people and appreciation for the importance of agriculture to our respective States' economies. Peanut farmers and sugar growers are frequent allies when commodity issues came before the Senate, and Senator Coverdell was a strong voice for Georgia farmers and his State's agricultural interests. On educational initiatives, Paul Coverdell and I rarely agreed; but he was never disagreeable. I admired his passion and tenacity on education issues, and appreciated the courtesy and humanity that characterized his work here in the Senate. 
   Paul Coverdell has left a mark for the better in the lives of millions of people, in America and around the world. He served his country and constituents conscientiously, earning our respect, admiration, and affection. We grieve for his passing from this life. I am reassured that we will find comfort in his splendid legacy of public service and the knowledge that death is a transition to life eternal and he is now with God. As we bid our dear friend and colleague one last fond farewell, I am reminded of the passage from Scriptures, from Matthew, 25:23:  
   His Master said unto him, ``Well done, good and faithful servant; you have been good and faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Now enter into the joy of your Master.''  
   May God bless Nancy, the Coverdell family and staff. 
   Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my gratitude to Chairman THAD COCHRAN, Ranking Member HERB KOHL, and Minority Whip HARRY REID for their efforts yesterday in passing Amendment 3976 to H.R. 4461, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2001. This amendment, which was offered by my colleague, the Senior Senator from Hawaii, Mr. INOUYE, and myself will provide emergency relief to the Hawaii sugarcane industry. 
   Since 1990, the Hawaii sugarcane industry has experienced a dramatic decline in its sugar production, from 55 sugarcane farms operating on approximately 162,000 acres to three sugarcane farms operating on 60,000 acres. 
   Compared to other sugarcane growers in the United States, Hawaii growers are at a disadvantage due to higher transportation costs incurred in shipping raw sugar to California for refining. In addition, Hawaii growers are precluded from participating in certain relief provisions of the 1996 Farm bill, such as the United States Department of Agriculture's sugar loan program, which are available to other U.S. sugar growers. Hawaii sugar growers have demonstrated a strong commitment to remain in sugar production. 
   They continue to be on the forefront of sugarcane production and are working to diversify its capabilities by venturing into other agricultural commodities such as fiberboard products, energy products, seed corn, and low caloric sweeteners. Without emergency funds to help Hawaii's sugar industry compensate for extraordinary low prices and high transportation costs, this distressed sector of Hawaii's agricultural industry will cease to exist. 
   This amendment will designate $7.2 million as emergency funding for a grant from the Commodity Credit Corporation to the State of Hawaii. It will provide the necessary relief to this distressed sector of Hawaii's agriculture industry. This provision will provide compensation for extraordinary low prices and high transportation costs incurred by this industry. 
   Again, I wish to thank my colleagues for their support of this important amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, we are again debating the amendment by the Senator from Arizona. My colleagues may recall that this body rejected an identical amendment last year by a vote of 66-33. 
   As I mentioned on the floor last August, the sugar program remains a great bargain for the American consumer. It's also one of the least expensive food items you will find in an American kitchen. Sugar is probably the best bargain you can find at the grocery store today. American sugar farmers and the U.S. sugar program help make sugar affordable. 
   Consumers elsewhere around the globe do not enjoy the low prices we have in America. If you visit a grocery store in other industrialized nations you will get ``sticker shock'' when you pass the sugar display. Thanks to a farm program that assures stable supplies at reasonable prices, sugar is a remarkable value for American consumers. U.S. consumers pay an average of 17 cents less per pound of sugar than their counterparts in other industrialized nations. Low U.S. prices save consumers more than a billion dollars annually. That's why I say that the sugar program is a great deal for American consumers. Thanks to the sugar program, U.S. consumers enjoy a plentiful supply of sugar at bargain prices. 
   I urge my colleagues to reject this amendment. If Congress terminates the sugar program, not only will a dynamic part of the economy disappear from many rural areas, but consumers will also lose a reliable supply of high-quality, low-price sugar. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. If the senior Senator from Hawaii would allow me to interject before the distinguished floor managers respond to his question, I wish to explain the need for this relief measure. 
   According to witnesses who have testified before Congress and tax experts, the estate tax poses a dire problem for family-owned and closely held businesses. The owners typically have all their assets tied up in the business, and they have re-invested all their profits to make the business grow. When the owners die, the estate tax must be paid within 9 months and in many cases the families will have to sell the businesses to pay the tax. With only 9 months to pay off the estate tax, the families are often forced to settle for whatever price they can get. Now, rather than face such a fire sale, many business owners will sell their businesses while they are still alive so that their families can get a fair price. Many family-owned and closely held businesses do not show up on estate tax returns, because they have already been sold off in anticipation of having to pay the tax. 
   Recognizing the liquidity problem that the estate tax imposes on closely held businesses, the Treasury Department has suggested that the number of owners permissible in a qualifying business should be raised from 15 to 75 so that eligibility for estate tax deferral and installment payment can be consistent with Subchapter S qualification. In the House, Representative CAROLYN MCCARTHY, together with various members of the Small Business Committee and Representative NEIL ABERCROMBIE, have advocated this proposal as H.R. 4512. This is the proposal that Senator INOUYE and I have raised with the distinguished floor managers. Am I correct in my understanding that the senior Senator from Delaware and the senior Senator from New York will favorably consider this proposal for inclusion in the eventual package of estate tax relief measures? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I, too, join in expressing my appreciation for the distinguished floor managers' support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 15 minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, for most of the 1990s, the average gasoline prices in Honolulu hovered at roughly 25 cents to 50 cents above the national average. In June 1999, only 1 year ago, Hawaii's price of $1.51 per gallon ranked above Oregon's at $1.44 and the national average of $1.14. 
   As late as last month, according to the Automobile Association of America, Hawaii topped the Nation with an average per gallon price of $1.85, compared to the next highest state, Nevada, at $1.67 and a U.S. average of $1.51. 
   This month, according to AAA, Hawaii ranked fourth highest with an average price for regular unleaded of $1.86 per gallon. That fell below Illinois with an average of $1.98, Michigan at $1.96, and Wisconsin at $1.91. Still, Hawaii's price was well above the U.S. average of $1.63. 
   It is no pleasure to say that Hawaii has lost this dubious distinction as the State with the Nation's highest gasoline prices. The pocketbooks of Americans are hurting all over the country. 
   There has been no shortage of blame--short supplies, pipeline problems, cleaner gasoline requirements, too much driving and gas guzzlers, oil company manipulations, even an esoteric patent dispute, to name a few. So far, the initial examination of the causes of the dramatic increase of prices in some areas of the Midwest has provided no clear picture. The Clinton administration has asked the Federal Trade Commission to investigate if there were any illegal price manipulations in the Midwest leading to such dramatic price increases. 
   This problem of dependence on imported oil has been in the making for many years. Our import dependence has been rising for the past 2 decades. The combination of lower domestic production and increased demand has led to imports making up a larger share of total oil consumed in the United States. In 1992, crude oil imports accounted for approximately 45 percent of our domestic demand. Last year crude oil imports accounted for 58 percent. The Energy Information Administration's Short-Term Outlook forecasts that oil imports will exceed 60 percent of total demand this year. EIA's long-term forecasts have oil imports constituting 66 percent of U.S. supply by 2010, and more than 71 percent by 2020. 
   Continued reliance on such large quantities of imported oil will frustrate our efforts to develop a national energy policy and set the stage for energy emergencies in the future. 
   For months now, we have watched the price of gasoline and fuel oil rise at breakneck speed. All across America, families have suffered ever-escalating prices. 
   We have not had a coherent and comprehensive energy policy for a long time. Additionally, we have not had a commitment to address our dependence on foreign sources of oil. Absence of an effective policy and a visible commitment to addressing our energy dependence have made us hostage to OPEC's production decision. It has also encouraged Mexico, our NAFTA partner, to join OPEC in limiting oil supplies. 
   We all understand that there is no overnight solution to America's energy problems. We can't turn this trend around overnight. Tax repeals and other such short-term actions may appear appealing, given the political climate, and may even provide limited relief in the short run, but they do not provide a solution to our energy problem. They do not provide a sound basis for a national energy policy. Their unintended consequences may be other problems such as deficits in highway and transit funds. 
   The only way to reverse our energy problem is to have a multifaceted energy strategy and remain committed to that strategy. In my judgment, you need both of these in equal portions. This will send a clear message to OPEC and their partners about America's resolve. 
   The way to improve our energy outlook is to adopt energy conservation, encourage energy efficiency, and support renewable energy programs. Above all, we must develop energy resources that diversify our energy mix and strengthen our energy security. Natural gas appears to be the most attractive fuel to form the cornerstone of our energy policy. It is the right fuel to bridge the energy and environmental issues facing us. 
   If we are to have a comprehensive energy policy that strengthens our economy and serves the real needs of Americans, then we need to dismantle our dependence on foreign oil as soon as possible. And the way to do this is to begin using more natural gas--a domestically abundant fuel--that is safe and reliable to deliver, more environmentally friendly than oil, and over three times as energy-efficient as electricity from the point of origin to point of use. 
   Let me state those facts again: Natural gas is plentiful, efficient, environmentally friendly, and it is a domestic fuel source. 
   Natural gas offers itself as a good choice for the fuel of the future. It offers us many advantages that other fuels do not. About 85 percent of the natural gas consumed in America each year is produced domestically. The balance is imported almost entirely from Canada. We have a large domestic natural gas resource base and advances in exploration and production technologies are allowing increased production. We also have potentially vast resources in the form of methane 
   hydrates. This resource base is yet to be explored. 
   Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel. Wider use of natural gas will be more benign to the environment compared to some other fuel sources. Natural gas would emit reduced levels of greenhouse gas emissions, and would not contribute to acid rain, smog, solid waste, or water pollution. 
   We must invest in technologies that help facilitate wider application of natural gas. New technologies such as micro turbines, fuel cells, and other on-site power systems are environmentally attractive. Wider use of these technologies in the private and public sectors must be facilitated. All Federal research and development programs should be reevaluated to provide them with a clear direction. We must boost support for those programs that help replace imported oil. 
   Transportation demands on imported oil remain as strong as ever. Since the oil shock of the 1970s, all major energy consuming sectors of our economy with the exception of transportation have significantly reduced their dependence on oil. The transportation sector remains almost totally dependent on oil-based motor fuels. The fuel efficiency of our vehicles needs to be improved. At the same time, we must make a concerted effort to encourage development and use of alternative vehicle fuels. Natural gas vehicles should be made an integral part of our transportation sector. 
   If coal was the energy source of the nineteenth century, and oil was the energy source of the twentieth century, then I submit natural gas can and should be America's source of energy for the twenty-first century. 
   Americans are demanding an energy system that will guarantee adequate energy for future needs, protect the environment, and protect consumers from exploitation. 
   We are facing numerous problems related to energy such as runaway prices, shortages, increases in pollution, self-sufficiency, and the effect of energy on our economy. While not a panacea, it is clear to this Senator that increased use  of natural gas must be the center of America's energy strategy. 
   The American people deserve better than the status quo. Natural gas is America's energy solution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts, Senator KENNEDY, for yielding time. I am pleased to be a cosponsor of the Democratic skills training amendment to the Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2001. This amendment further increases our country's human capital by adding $1.05 billion to skills training programs at the U.S. Department of Labor. 
   Mr. President, while I commend the chairman and ranking member for their efforts in coming forward with a bill that avoids many of the drastic cuts approved by the House of Representatives, there are still a number of vital programs that continue to be seriously underfunded. This amendment provides adequate funding for Federal skills training programs to serve more individuals who are seeking to improve their ability to contribute to the workplace. Today's global economy demands that the United States do all it can to ensure that every member of our workforce is prepared to meet new workplace chllenges. Unfortunately, the gap between high-skilled and low-skilled workers continues to grow, leaving many at the lower end of the spectrum even farther behind. 
   One particular program I would like to mention is the Fathers Work, Families Win program. This important initiative improves the employment potential of certain low income individuals who generally have lower levels of education and work experience. As a result, these individuals usually end up accepting jobs that pay relatively low wages and have few benefits. They often have irregular track records in employment: they hold several jobs at a time, work part-time or intermittently, or endure periods of unemployment. Many of these individuals have been on the welfare rolls or are living under conditions that make them vulnerable to becoming dependent on Federal assistance. 
   We must not forget that these individuals have the potential to make meaningful contributions to the economy and, given the opportunity, can become self-sufficient and successfully support their families. This is one reason why I am interested in seeing the Fathers Work, Families Win program funded. The portion of the program entitled Families Win provides $130 million in competitive grants for programs to help low income parents stay employed, move up the career ladder, and remain off welfare. 
   The program's Fathers Work component provides $125 million for competitive grants to help certain non-custodial parents find a job, maintain employment, and advance on their career path. This is important because many fathers, rather than being ``deadbeat dads,'' are ``dead broke dads.'' They have the desire to support their families through child support payments and other means, but cannot do so because they cannot secure or maintain steady employment paying a living wage. 
   Fathers Work, Families Win would build on the investments and partnerships started under the Workforce Investment Act and the Welfare-to-Work program. State and local Workforce Investment Boards are eligible applicants under both parts of Fathers Work, Families Win. These boards have been implementing WIA [weeeea] across the country, reforming the way in which job training and job placement services are conducted. The competitive grant program funds enable the Boards to further integrate services for the population of low income workers under programs such as WIA, Wagner-Peyser [wag-ner pie-zer] grants, Welfare-to-Work grants, and grants under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. This integrated approach will help to ensure that many low income families will not fall through the cracks and will find it easier to use the network of services at their disposal. 
   I continue to be a strong supporter of the Welfare-to-Work program. Last year, I introduced the Welfare-to-Work Amendments of 1999 which included provisions to reauthorize the program and to improve access to the program for more low income individuals. The eligibility changes were included in the consolidated appropriations bill for fiscal year 2000, which I thank my colleagues for working on and supporting. However, the Welfare-to-Work program itself has not yet been renewed. With eligibility changes taking effect for competitive grantees at the beginning of 2000 and for formula grantees later this year, Welfare-to-Work efforts must be given more time to run. If the program is not reauthorized, worthwhile efforts at the State and local levels to help low income families will be adversely impacted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. The letter goes on to note that although welfare rolls have decreased significantly across the country, ``great numbers of former welfare clients living in cities who are in need of services still remain.'' These are the hardest-to-help families who need our greatest assistance. Furthermore, many of these individuals will be reaching their lifetime limit on welfare benefits imposed by the 1996 welfare reform law and will no longer be able to rely on regular cash assistance to support their families. We cannot allow these families to be left without any safety net and should continue pursuing efforts to ``teach them how to fish''--this is what the amendment before us would do. 
   While I am disappointed that the bill before us does not extend the Welfare-to-Work program, I hope that under the eligibility changes I helped to pass last year, Welfare-to-Work program accomplishments will continue to grow and provide strong impetus for the program's reauthorization. In the meantime, I strongly urge my colleagues to support programs such as Fathers Work, Families Win for low income individuals. 
   It is interesting to note that in 1998 and 1999, while the nation was experiencing low unemployment, layoffs were still widespread. This trend was mainly due to companies requiring new skills to meet the demands of a new economy. Unfortunately, as we have seen by the announcements of large-scale layoffs from companies such as Coca-Cola, J.C. Penney Company, and Exxon Mobil Corporation, the situation is not getting any better. 
   So, why are we in Congress looking at reducing or eliminating funding for vital programs that empower former welfare recipients and low-wage workers with the information and skills necessary to become viable citizens in their communities? Skills Training programs are essential to ensure that displaced workers will be able to transition into another trade. We must not forget that the Federal Reserve Board is reviewing the possibility of raising interest rates in an effort to slow down U.S. economic growth. This could negatively impact not only Hawaii's economy, especially the construction industry that is one of Hawaii's leading areas for job growth, but the nation as a whole. Hawaii's economy is just recovering from a decade of economic stagnation and layoffs and cannot afford another recession without providing the necessary funds for skills training programs. 
   The current and proposed funding levels for skills training programs are inadequate to ensure the availability of a trained workforce. We must remain committed in our efforts to equip employers with an employment system capable of addressing potential labor shortages. For the State of Hawaii, eliminating all new funding for One Stop Career Centers/Labor Market Information will adversely impact Hawaii's ability to comply with the Workforce Investment Act. Hawaii will not be able to develop core employment statistics products used by employers, job seekers, educators, students, and others. More specifically, valuable labor market information would no longer be provided to the public. 
   I commend Hawaii's Job Corps program for its successful placement rate of 70 percent. This is significant given Hawaii's fragile economy in recent years. The success of this program clearly illustrates the positive effect the skills training programs have on our communities. We should not reduce or eliminate funding for these vital programs that enhance employment opportunities for individuals and their families. 
   The amendment offered by my distinguished colleague from Massachusetts, Senator KENNEDY, would address the potential shortcomings in funding as proposed in the House and Senate. This amendment provides appropriate funding for the Department of Labor's Youth and Adult Employment and Training Programs, especially funding for Dislocated Worker assistance, Youth Opportunity grants, Job Corps, and One Stop Career Centers. In addition, this amendment also provides appropriate funding for the Summer Jobs program resulting from implementation of the Workforce Investment Act. 
   We must continue to improve our skills training program to ensure that America's workforce remains competitive to the global economy. I urge my colleagues to support this important amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I stand here today to pay tribute to the 22 men who received the Medal of Honor yesterday. As has been indicated by a number of my colleagues, one of those recipients is my dear friend and colleague from Hawaii, Senator DANIEL K. INOUYE. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to: 
   Senator DANIEL K. INOUYE, Second Lieutenant, 442nd Regimental Combat Team; 
   Rudolph Davila, Staff Sergeant, 3rd Army; 
   Barney Hajiro, Private First Class, 442nd RCT; 
   Mikio Hasemoto, Private, 100th Battalion; 
   Joe Hayashi, Private First Class, 442nd RCT; 
   Shizuya Hayashi, Private, 100th Battalion; 
   Yeiki Kobashigawa, Technical Sergeant, 100th Battalion; 
   Robert Kuroda, Staff Sergeant, 442nd RCT; 
   Kaoru Moto, Private First Class, 100th Battalion; 
   Kiyoshi Muranaga, Private First Class, 442nd RCT; 
   Masato Nakae, Private First Class, 100th Battalion; 
   Sinyei Nakamine, Private, 100th Battalion; 
   William Nakamura, Private First Class, 442nd RCT; 
   Joe Nishimoto, Private, 442nd RCT; 
   Allan Ohata, Staff Sergeant, 100th Battalion; 
   James Okubo, Technical Sergeant, 442nd RCT; 
   Yukio Okutsu, Technical Sergeant, 442nd RCT; 
   Frank Ono, Private First Class, 442nd RCT; 
   Kazuo Otani, Staff Sergeant, 442nd RCT; 
   George Sakato, Private, 442nd RCT; 
   Ted Tanouye, Technical Sergeant, 442nd RCT; 
   Francis Wai, Captain, 34th Division. 
   Mr. President, these 22 Medal of Honor recipients have joined an elite group of soldiers honored for exceptional valor in service to our country. It may have taken half a century, but the passage of time has not diminished the magnificence of their courage. These 22 men truly represent the best that America has to offer. They answered the call to duty and proved that patriotism is solely a circumstance of the heart. These men answered the call of duty with conviction and courage, at a time when these virtues were most in demand by a needy Nation. In the face of discrimination and injustice at home, these men set aside personal consideration to defend our great Nation on foreign battlefields. By their actions, these 22 men proved that patriotism is not based on the color of one's skin, but on the courage and strength of one's convictions. 
   I am pleased to have contributed to the process that finally led to the appropriate recognition of these soldiers. Legislation initiated by the Senate required the military to review the records of all Asian Pacific American recipients of the Navy Cross or Distinguished Service Cross during World War II to determine if any merit upgrade to the Medal of Honor. 
   Many times I have been asked why I thought review was necessary. The review provision was offered and adopted out of concern that Asian Pacific American veterans have never been fully recognized for their military contributions during the Second World War. 
   Many in Hawaii know of the exploits of the 100th Infantry Battalion, 442nd Regimental Combat Team. It came as a surprise that few on the mainland were familiar with the service of this famous all-Nisei, second generation Japanese unit, or of the secret Military Intelligence Service whose members served in the Pacific. 
   Twenty of the twenty two Medal of Honor recipients honored yesterday and today are from the 100th Infantry Battalion, 442nd Regimental Combat Team. Of the remaining two recipients, Sergeant Francis Davila served with the 7th Infantry and Captain Francis Wai served with the 34th Division. 
   Few people realize the history of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team. On December 7, 1941, during the attack on Pearl Harbor, a call went out for all University of Hawaii ROTC members to report for duty. These students, most of whom were Americans of Japanese ancestry, responded to the call and were fully prepared to defend the United States. 370 of the Japanese American ROTC cadets were sworn into the Hawaii Territorial Guard and guarded the most sensitive and important installations in Hawaii. 
   Due to the shock at the attack on Pearl Harbor and an unfortunate ignorance by some of the culture and racial makeup of the citizens of Hawaii, there were individuals who opposed Japanese Americans serving in the Territorial Guard. The 370 Japanese Americans who had served faithfully, willingly, and patriotically during the weeks following Pearl Harbor, were dismissed from the Territorial Guard because of their ancestry. Instead of rebelling, resigning, or protesting, these men wrote to the Commanding General of the Hawaiian Department and stated their ``willingness to do their part as loyal Americans in every way'' and offered themselves for ``whatever you may see fit to use us.'' 
   These men formed the Varsity Victory Volunteers and worked at the quarries, constructed roads, helped construct warehouses, renovated quarters, strung barbed wire, and built chairs, tables, and lamps. They even donated blood and bought bonds. We cannot forget that these men were students and could have been making money in white collar jobs. 
   Instead, they devoted their time to doing what they could to help the military. It was this group of Japanese American volunteers, the Varsity Victory Volunteers, who were eventually given the authorization by the War Department to form the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, which would earn the distinction as the ``most decorated unit for its size and length of service in the history of the United States.'' 
   Their motto, ``Go for Broke,'' is a perfect description of their spirit and character as men and as a fighting unit. The 442nd and 100th Battalion captured enemy positions and rescued comrades. They completed missions that seemed impossible. Ignoring danger, they repeatedly placed themselves in harm's way, gaining a reputation for fearless and fierce fighting. Throughout the Army their bravery earned them the nickname the ``Purple Heart Battalion.'' 
   In 1943, when the War Department decided to accept Nisei volunteers, over 1,000 Hawaii Nisei volunteered on the first day. The spirit and attitude of these volunteers is captured in the senior Senator from Hawaii's memoir, ``Journey to Washington.'' 
   I want to read an excerpt from the book describing an exchange between young DAN INOUYE and his father as he left to report for induction.  
   After a long period of silence between us, he said unexpectedly, ``You know what `on' means?'' 
   ``Yes,'' I replied. On is at the very heart of Japanese culture. On requires that when one man is aided by another, he incurs a debt that is never canceled, one that must be repaid at every opportunity. 
   ``The Inouyes have great on for America,'' my father said. ``It has been good to us. And now it is you who must try to return the goodness. You are my first son, and you are very precious to your mother and me, but you must do what must be done.''  
   Mr. President, for over 60 years, my friend and colleague, the senior Senator from Hawaii, has returned to  America the goodness and service to honor his father's admonition. On the field of battle in Italy, in the territorial legislature, and for over 40 years in Congress, DAN INOUYE has served his country with distinction and courage. His leadership on national defense, civil rights, and a host of other issues have made America a stronger and better country. I am proud to serve with him in the United States Senate. 
   Mr. President, the people of Hawaii are also very proud that 12 of the 22 men awarded the Medal of Honor are from Hawaii. 
   My Honolulu office received a call the other day from a constituent in Waianae, a small community on the leeward coast of Oahu, who wanted to make sure that people knew that three Medal of Honor recipients were from Waianae. 
   Indeed, the people of Hawaii are proud and grateful for all the local boys who have served in defense of our nation. They are well aware of the sacrifice and hardship endured by our men in uniform during World War II and subsequent conflicts. 
   Out of the 22 men honored, 10 were killed in battle. Five of the recipients survived World War II, but have passed on prior to knowing that their medals were upgraded. That leaves us with seven living recipients, five of whom, I am proud to say, are from the State of Hawaii. 
   I see this as an opportunity to inform the American public about the degree and level of participation of Asian Pacific Americans in the war effort. I thank President Clinton, Secretary of Defense William Cohen, and Secretary of the Army Louis Caldera for the painstaking and thorough manner in which the review and nomination process was conducted. I commend Secretary Caldera and all the Army personnel who conducted this review in a thorough and professional manner. They carried out the difficult task of identifying the records of more than one hundred veterans. 
   I would also like to acknowledge the 442nd Veterans Club, and Club 100 for their unwavering support and assistance in the review process. I want to thank Ed Ichiyama, Sakae Takahashi, and Iwao Yokooji for their tremendous work in recognizing the contributions of Asian Pacific Americans in military intelligence and the frontlines of battle. The accounts documented for each of the 104 Distinguished Service Cross recipients underscore our faith in a Nation that produces such heroes and are a wonderful legacy for our children and grandchildren. 
   I would also like to pay tribute to the Military Intelligence Service, whose unit citation was signed by Secretary Caldera last night, because in a profound way, my interest in this area began with the MIS. 
   About 10 years ago, I heard of the late Colonel Richard Sakakida's remarkable experiences as an Army undercover agent in the Philippines during World War II. His MIS colleagues worked to have his extraordinary service honored by our Government and the Government of the Philippines. 
   While working to have Colonel Sakakida's service acknowledged with appropriate decoration, I realized that there were many war heroes whose valiant service had been overlooked. I recalled that only two Asian Pacific Americans received the Medal of Honor for service during World War II. The number seemed too low when you consider the high-intensity combat experienced by the 100th and 442nd, the service of 12,000 Filipino Americans in the U.S. Army, and the dangerous assignments taken by the 6,000 members of the MIS. 
   President Truman recognized it for what it was on a rain-drenched day in 1945, when during a White House ceremony honoring the 100th and 442nd, he observed, ``you fought not only the enemy, you fought prejudice, and you have won.'' 
   Mr. President, these men are not being awarded the Medal of Honor because of their race. They are being given their due recognition for their exceptional acts of valor. Fifty-five years ago, our country refused to appropriately recognize that these men distinguished themselves by gallantry and audacious courage, risking their lives in service above and beyond the call of duty. 
   This is a great day to be an American, and I am honored to stand before the Senate to pay tribute to these 22 men who fought to defend our great Nation. In their memory and in celebration of our Nation's everlasting commitment to justice and liberty, I honor these 22 men and their achievements and offer them the highest praise for all they have done to keep us free. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, in 1970, Congress established the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), to ``assure so far as possible every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions.'' Therefore, OSHA is responsible for ensuring that both employers and employees have access to the necessary training, resources, and support systems to eliminate workplace injuries, illnesses, and deaths. To achieve a safe and healthy workplace, OSHA must be pro-active in identifying workplace safety and health problems. 
   We, in Congress, must not forget our commitment to America's workers. That is why I am here today to speak on behalf of OSHA's effort to establish ergonomic standards. 
   Each year more than 600,000 workers suffer serious injuries, such as back injuries, carpal tunnel syndrome, and tendinitis, as a result of ergonomic hazards. Last year, in my State of Hawaii, more than 4,400 private sector workers suffered serious injuries from ergonomic hazards at work. Another 700 workers in the public sector suffered such injuries. These injuries are a major problem not only in the State of Hawaii, but across the nation. It affects not just truck drivers and assembly line workers, but also nurses and computer users. Every sector of the economy is affected by this problem. The impact can be devastating for workers who suffer from these injuries. 
   It is important to note that ergonomics is not new. It has been around as early as World War II, where the designers of our small plane cockpits took into consideration the placement of cockpit controls for our pilots. And, for OSHA this matter is also not new. OSHA has been working on ergonomic standards for 10 years, of which, for the last five years, OSHA has been delayed from finalizing any ergonomic standard. Opponents of a standard have either prohibited OSHA from issuing its standard or delayed its work until such time as the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) can complete their studies and report to Congress. Although NIOSH and NAS completed their reports and both indicated that there was credible research showing a consistent relationship between musculoskeletal disorders and certain physical factors, critics were not satisfied and requested another NAS report in 1998; yet another delaying tactic. 
   It is unfortunate that OSHA has been prevented from issuing any ergonomic standard for the past five years. It is important to note that some of these delays were part of agreements and promises made to proponents for accepting some of these requests. As we see now, the promises made have been broken. More specifically, in 1997, the leadership of the Appropriations Committee in the House agreed that the coming fiscal year would be the last time in which OSHA would be prohibited from spending any of its funds on issuing proposed ergonomic standards, and again, in 1998, House Appropriations Chair ROBERT LIVINGSTON and Ranking Member DAVID OBEY sent a letter to Secretary of Labor Alexis Herman that stated, ``it is in no way our intent to block or delay issuance by OSHA of a proposed rule on ergonomics.'' However, in 1999, legislation was introduced (H.R. 987 and S. 1070) to block OSHA's ergonomic standards, and the House Appropriations Committee adopted a rider that would shut down the rulemaking process and block OSHA's final rule. 
   American workers cannot afford any more delays. Injuries that result from ergonomic hazards are serious, disabling, and costly. Carpal tunnel syndrome results in workers losing more time from their jobs than any other type of injury. It is estimated that these injuries account for an estimated $20 billion annually in workers compensation. 
   The most compelling reason to allow OSHA to complete this process is that these injuries and illnesses can be prevented. In fact, some employers across the country have already taken action and put in place workplace ergonomics programs to prevent injuries. However, two-thirds of employers still do not have adequate ergonomic programs in place. 
   It has been 10 years since Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole promised to take action to protect workers from ergonomic injuries and to issue an ergonomics standard. Since that time, more than 6.1 million workers have suffered serious injuries as a result of ergonomic hazards. OSHA's proposed rule would prevent 300,000 injuries each year and save $9 billion in workers' compensation and related costs. It is time for Congress to remember the commitment made to the nation's workforce when it established OSHA in 1970, and allow OSHA to continue its issuing of an ergonomics standard. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am proud to introduce legislation which would award the Medal of Honor to James K. Okubo, Ed W. Freeman, and Andrew J. Smith. There is no doubt that these three individuals are deserving of this award based on their brave and selfless service in defense of our great nation. The passage of this measure makes it possible for these men to receive a long overdue and well-deserve honor. 
   This legislation marks the culmination of my efforts to recognize James K. Okubo for his acts of gallantry during World War II. James K. Okubo was born in Ancacortes, Washington, raised in Bellingham, Washington, and interned at Tule Lake, California. Mr. Okubo entered military service in Alturas, California on May 22, 1943 and was discharged from the Army in December 1945. Following his military service, Mr. Okubo was a professor at the University of Detroit Dental School. Mr. Okubo passed away following a car accident in 1967. 
   Mr. Okubo (Tec 5) served as a medic, member of the Medical Detachment, 442nd Regimental Combat Team. For his heroism displayed over a period of several days (October 28, 29 and November 4, 1944) in rescuing and delivering medical aid to fellow soldiers during the rescue of the ``Lost Battalion'' from Texas, he was recommended to receive the Medal of Honor. The medal, however, was downgraded to a Silver Star. The explanation provided at the time was that as a medic, James S. Okubo was not eligible for any award higher than the Silver Star. 
   Due to my concern that Mr. Okubo did not receive full recognition for his acts of heroism and bravery, I requested reconsideration of Mr. Okubo's case under section 1130, Title 10 of the United States Code. The Senior Army Decorations Board reviewed the case and submitted it to Secretary Caldera recommending an upgrade to the Medal of Honor. Secretary Caldera approved the recommendation which resulted in this important measure.  
   This legislation is especially significant as fellow members of Mr. Okubo's unit will be awarded the Medal of Honor next week. It is my hope that this legislation will be enacted shortly, thereby allowing the Okubo family to participate in this auspicious event with the other families of members from the 100th Battalion, 442nd Regimental Combat Team. 
   Mr. Okubo's heroism on the battlefield is an inspiration to all who believe in duty, honor, and service to one's country. Mr. Okubo takes his rightful place among America's great war heroes. He is a shining example of the sacrifices made by so many other Asian Pacific Americans during World War II, who served our country so ably in spite of the difficulties they faced as members of a suspect minority. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000612</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to honor Carl ``Bobo'' Olson, the legendary world boxing champion born and nurtured in Hawaii, who was inducted yesterday into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in Canastota, New York. This is certainly a well-deserved honor for ``The Hawaiian Swede,'' a distinguished champion whose life and 16-year professional career represent the grit, tenacity, skill and love of sport that have made boxing popular worldwide. 
   Born in 1928, Bobo Olson grew up quickly on the tough streets of downtown Honolulu in the early 1940s, sharpening his boxing skills at an early age. Bobo and I grew up in the same community, the Pauoa and Punchbowl area in Honolulu--a neighborhood where families of different races, many of Hawaiian or Portuguese heritage--lived side-by-side and shared our cultures and traditions. We all closely followed Bobo's rise to champion and took pride in a local boy who had reached the top in his sport and handled his success with humility and grace. 
   He began fighting professionally at age 16, and won 19 fights before he reached the age where he could legally box on the mainland circuit. As a professional, Bobo won the World Middleweight Championship by defeating Randy Turpin of England in October 1953 before 18,869 spectators in a 15-round fight at New York's Madison Square Garden. Ring Magazine named him fighter of the year in 1953. He held the title for two years; losing it in 1955 to Sugar Ray Robinson. 
   Olson's career record was 117 fights, 99 wins, 49 by knockout, 16 losses and two draws. Four of those losses were to Ray Robinson, who is considered by many boxing experts and fans to be the greatest middleweight ever and among boxing's all-time greats. Bobo Olson held the middleweight title longer than any other boxer in the 1950s and fought as a middleweight and light-heavyweight. He never shied away from a challenge. Bobo was inducted into the World Boxing Hall of Fame in 1958, and was also among the first class of athletes, sportsmen and sportswomen inducted into the Hawaii Sports Hall of Fame in 1998. After retiring from boxing in 1966, Bobo worked as recreational director for the Operating Engineers Local Union in San Francisco and in public relations for the Teamsters. Now happily retired, he and his wife Judy reside in Honolulu. 
   Mr. President, I join boxing enthusiasts and the people of Hawaii in congratulating Carl ``Bobo'' Olson on his induction into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. He remains a soft-spoken champion, and his quiet intensity and commitment to excellence offer a lasting illustration of good sportsmanship for all of us.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Postmasters Fairness and Rights Act, which will allow our nation's postmasters to take an active and constructive role in managing their post offices and discussing compensation issues. I am joined by Senators DURBIN, SARBANES, MIKULSKI, EDWARDS, and BAUCUS in offering this legislation. 
   Currently, Postmasters lack an equitable process for discussing pay and benefits and have seen an erosion of their role in improving the quality of mail services to postal patrons and managing their local post offices. These inequities have contributed to the decline in the number of Postmasters since the reorganization of the Postal Service 30 years ago. 
   Our bill would create a positive and fair procedure to address the inequalities that have resulted from the present ``consultative process.'' This would foster better mail services by investing Postmasters with greater input in operational decision-making, improving Postmasters' morale, and helping attract and retain qualified Postmasters. The measure would also define ``Postmaster'' for the first time. 
   Mr. President, the Postal Service estimates that seven million customers a day transact business at post offices. We expect timely delivery of the mail 6 days a week, and the Postal Service does not disappoint us. Given the regularity of mail delivery and the number of Americans visiting post offices daily, it is no wonder that we have come to view our neighborhood post offices as cornerstones of our communities. In fact, many of our towns and cities have developed around a post office where the postmaster served as the town's only link to the federal government. 
   Our nation's postmasters are on the front line to ensure that the mail gets delivered in a timely manner, and they have helped fuel the infrastructure that boosted the performance ratings of the Postal Service to an all-time high in 1999. 
   Despite these successes, there remains the question of pay and compensation, which this bill addresses. I would also like to note that a House companion bill, H.R. 3842, introduced on March 8, 2000, enjoys bipartisan support from 23 cosponsors. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. Thank you Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in full in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today with deep admiration and praise for an integral presence within America's diverse society--Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Every May, during Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, we commemorate the major contributions made by this small, but by no means insignificant part of the U.S. population. 
   Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, both in the aggregate and in groups of distinct and unique ethnic origin, comprise a growing force in our citizenry. Whether their ancestry is Chinese, Japanese, Filipino, Indian, Korean, Vietnamese, Thai, Laotian, Hmong, or other Asian American, or Native Hawaiian, Chamorro, Samoan, Micronesian, Tongan, Fijian, or other Pacific Islander American, they are a vibrant part of our society. If one could see numbers about each of the distinct peoples in the Asian American and Pacific Islander community, they would observe that we make up one of the fastest growing segments of the population. Our reach in communities across America is increasing. Asian Pacific Americans should not be thought of as located only in a few select states such as Hawaii or California. We have migrated over time from various points of origin in the U.S. to all parts of the country and have come to contribute to local business, education, and politics in every state. 
   Nearly 11 million Asian and Pacific Islanders lived in the U.S. in about 2.5 million families, according to last year's estimates. About four-fifths of these families were headed by married couples. Furthermore, the Census Bureau projects that the Asian and Pacific Islander population will more than triple to nearly 38 million by the middle of this new century, climbing from four to nine percent of the American population. This growth in the number of Asian Pacific Americans will be felt across the country, and more light will be shed on the multifaceted strengths and varied needs of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. 
   President Clinton recognized the importance of increasing awareness about Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders when he signed Executive Order 13125 in June, 1999. The Executive Order established the White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders with the goal of improving the quality of life for this population by increasing their participation in Federal programs. Such programs 
   include those related to health, human services, housing, education, labor, transportation,  economic development, and community development programs--encompassing those which currently serve this population and those which may not have served this population in the past. 
   I am happy to say that the Initiative is marching onward through high-level, interagency meetings involving all major agencies in the Executive Branch, and the establishment of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. The Commission will be sworn in later this week and includes 15 members representing various interests and diverse segments of the Asian American and Pacific Islander community. It will be chaired by an esteemed colleague, former Congressman Norman Mineta, and will include representatives such as Haunani Apoliona from my State of Hawaii. I hope that now and in the next Administration, the Initiative and the Commission will continue to work hand-in-hand toward: increased research and data collection; private sector, public sector and community involvement; and, development, monitoring, and coordination of Federal efforts toward improved quality of life for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. 
   There is clear evidence to show that this type of Federal attention is needed. As stated in the Presidential Proclamation for Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2000, despite many successes, the needs in the community still continue to be great:  
   While many Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders today are thriving, others are still struggling to overcome obstacles. Because of oppression in their countries of origin, some new immigrants have arrived without having completed their education; once here, some have encountered language and cultural barriers and discrimination. Pacific Islanders, too, must overcome barriers to opportunity caused by their geographic isolation and the consequences of Western influences on their unique culture. For these and other reasons, too many Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders face low-paying jobs, inadequate health care, and lack of educational opportunity.  
   The Initiative, Advisory Commission, and the Asian American and Pacific Islander community have much work to do in these areas. I urge that the proper resources and attention continue to flow to support this combined effort. 
   Mr. President, within this Federal effort, I cannot underscore enough how much we need to focus on improving data collection for the Asian American and Pacific Islander community. The tremendous diversity in the community poses challenges that have produced data and statistics that are inadequate. Most data collection tends to lump the various Asian American and Pacific Islander ethnicities together in a single 
   category, swallowing up numbers for each distinct group and failing to present an accurate picture of the services needed. 
   For example, the respected organization, the College Board, produced a report regarding minority achievement in higher education. The report failed to include Asian Pacific Americans because we were considered to be over-represented in higher education. Unfortunately, in the making of the report, differences between individual groups within the community were ignored. For example, higher educational attainment is greater for groups like Japanese and Chinese Americans than it is for American Samoan and Southeast Asian Americans. Statistics such as these must be brought to light so that educational agencies and institutions know to which groups they should target their limited resources. Thankfully, Congressman ROBERT UNDERWOOD, the Chairman of the Congressional Asian Pacific Caucus, worked to counter this problem and, in the end, reached an agreement with The College Board to work together and analyze disaggregared data for the population. 
   As another example of data collection challenges, I have worked on Office of Management and Budget Statistical Policy Directive No. 15, which governs the racial and ethnic data collection by Federal agencies. In 1993, I began efforts to change the Directive so that Native Hawaiians would be disaggregated from the Asian Pacific Islander category. My main concern was that Native Hawaiians, as an indigenous people were being classified with populations that had immigrated to the U.S., thereby creating the misperception that Native Hawaiians were immigrants rather than the indigenous peoples of Hawaii. 
   I finally succeeded in 1997, when OMB Policy and Statistical Directive No. 15 was revised. Native Hawaiians were disaggregated from the Asian Pacific Islander category and a new category entitled, ``Native Hawaiians and Other Pacific Islanders'' was created. That was one step toward fixing inaccuracies in data collection. Agencies have until January 1, 2003 to make all existing recordkeeping or reporting requirements consistent with its standards. However, provisions of the revised directive took effect immediately for all new and revised recordkeeping or reporting requirements that include racial and/or ethnic information. It is my understanding that only the Department to Health and Human Services has established a policy with respect to the requirements of OMB Directive 15. I have encouraged all Federal agencies to actively work to implement this Directive, especially in collaborative efforts with the White House Initiative and President's Advisory Commission. 
   As a further example, on March 14, 2000, I hosted a forum to discuss Census 
   2000 and its impact on Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders in Honolulu. The forum included panel members from the Federal government, Congress, and Native Hawaiian, Samoan, and Chamorro community organizations. The issue which generated the most concern regarding Census 2000 was the application of multiracial reporting. This issue is one of particular sensitivity in Hawaii, where a large percentage of the population has multiethnic backgrounds. 
   In Hawaii, it is very common for individuals, when asked for their ethnicity, to list their entire ethnic background. Only when asked which ethnicity the individual most identifies with will the individual limit the answer to one ethnic background. Furthermore, it was revealed through forum discussion that there is no resolution as to how data will be reported for those who check off more than one race on the 2000 Census form. This raises the fear that the final counts of various Pacific Islander populations--such as the Native Hawaiian population--where multiple-race backgrounds are common, would be inaccurate. Statisticians verify that this has enormous effect on smaller populations. 
   I am continuing to work on this problem because of the tremendous impact that Federal data has in its use in deciding funding and participation in thousands of Federal, state and local programs. Inaccurate data means that many individuals will not be served, and we must do what we can to prevent this from happening. We must work on these and other issues facing the Asian American and Pacific Islander community, just as we do for issues facing our country's other populations, because it is part of our responsibility to keep each part of our diverse America as strong as it can be. 
   Mr. President, I recently introduced related legislation that would allow us to take a broader look at, and emphasize the heterogeneous nature of, America. S. 2478, or the Peopling of America Theme Study Act of 2000, takes pride in America's diversity by authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to identify regions, areas, districts, structures and cultures that illustrate and commemorate key events or decisions in the peopling of this country. I hope that this effort will provide a basis for the preservation and interpretation of the complex movement of people, ideas, and cultures to and across the American continent that resulted in the peopling of the nation, and the development of our unique, pluralist society--one that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are fully a part. 
   The bill encourages development of preservation and education strategies to capture elements of our national culture and history such as immigration, migration, 
   ethnicity, family, gender, health, neighborhood, and community. The prehistory and the history of this nation are inextricably linked to the mosaic of migrations, immigrations and cultures that has resulted in the peopling of America. Americans are all travelers from other regions, continents and islands, and I feel we need a better understanding and appreciation of this coherent and unifying  theme in America. This is the source of our nation's greatness and strength. Our rich American heritage includes the traditions, cultures, and contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, both as a group and as individuals. 
   Mr. President, I would like to conclude my statement with a note of praise and congratulations to some of the members of the Asian Pacific American community most deserving of recognition. President Clinton recently approved the Army nominations of 21 Asian Pacific American World War II veterans to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor. This concluded a review that I requested of service records of Asian American and Pacific Islanders who received the Distinguished Service Cross during World War II. The approval of the Medal of Honor for these 21 men who served with valor in World War II--19 from the 442nd Regimental Combat Team and 100th Infantry Battalion--is long overdue recognition of the heroic service and bravery displayed by these Asian American soldiers and their comrades in arms. As we honor these patriots, including my colleague Senator DANIEL INOUYE, let us also remember the thousands of young men, living and deceased, whose courage, sacrifice and spirit proved that patriotism is a circumstance of the heart, not a consequence of the skin. 
   The 100th/442nd fought with incredible courage and bravery in Italy and France. Its members won 1 Medal of Honor, 53 DSCs, and more than 9,000 Purple Hearts. The unit itself won 8 Presidential Unit Citations. The fact that the 100th/442nd saw such fierce and heavy combat, yet received only one Medal of Honor award, and then only posthumously and due to congressional intervention, raised serious questions about the fairness of the award process at that time. Unfortunately, Asian Pacific Americans were not accorded full consideration for the Medal of Honor at the time of their service. A prevailing climate of racial prejudice against Asian Pacific Americans during World War II precluded this basic fairness, the most egregious example being the internment of 120,000 Japanese Americans. The bias, discrimination, and hysteria of that time unfortunately has an impact on the decision to award the military's highest honor to Asians and Pacific Islanders. 
   I commend Secretary Caldera and all the Army personnel who conducted the DSC review in a thorough and professional manner. They carried out the difficult task of identifying and reconstructing the records of more than one hundred veterans with diligence, sensitivity, and dispatch. The stories documented for each of the 104 DSC recipients will astonish and humble all who read them and underscore our faith in a nation that produces such heroes. 
   As the only Chinese American in this body and the sole Native Hawaiian in the Congress, I am proud of the legacy that we as Americans are leaving for the world. I am proud of our great country, and I am proud of the citizens that make our country great--including our nation's Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. We have much to celebrate during Asian Pacific Heritage Month 2000. 
   Mr. President, thank you again for this opportunity, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am very pleased and extremely honored to welcome to the Senate our guest Chaplain today, Rev. Dr. Edward Merritt ``Ted'' Robinson of Central Union Church in Honolulu. 
   Dr. Robinson is senior minister at Central Union Church in Honolulu, the largest United Church of Christ in the West and 1 of the 10 largest in the United States. Central Union was founded over 150 years ago, and the ``Church in the Garden'' is renowned for its commitment to community outreach as much as for its beautiful sanctuary. For over a century, the congregation has worked to put its faith into action in Hawaii, nationally, and throughout Asia and the Pacific. 
   Dr. Robinson has served as senior minister at Central Union for 15 years and has ministered in the United Church of Christ for over 30 years. He was born in Westwood, MA, and received his bachelor's degree from Yankton College and bachelor of theology degree from Yankton School of Theology. He holds a master's of divinity from United Seminary in St. Paul and master's of sacred theology from the Iliff School of Theology at the University of Denver. He earned his doctor of ministry degree at San Francisco Theological Seminary. 
   In addition to his work in the United Church of Christ, Dr. Robinson has served on a number of boards and commissions in Honolulu including the Salvation Army, Girl Scouts, Shriner's Hospital for Crippled Children, Hawaii Habitat for Humanity, and Honolulu Boy Choir. 
   Ted and Barbara Robinson are the proud parents of two children, Sarah and Jonathan, and one granddaughter. 
   When we are home in Hawaii, we frequently worship at Central Union. Ted Robinson is one of the finest preachers to grace Hawaii. He is a friend and source of comfort for me and my family and inspires his active and growing congregation to live their lives as courageous people of faith. By word and deed, he embraces the mission of Central Union inscribed in the sanctuary above the altar: ``Love Never Faileth.'' 
   It is my pleasure and privilege to welcome my good friend and minister to the Senate. 
   Aloha. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services of the Governmental Affairs Committee, I am concerned about an emerging issue that has important implications for our national security: the commercial satellite imaging industry. Soon the public will have access to high resolution pictures able to show objects as small as three feet in size. 
   The rapid evolution of satellite technology has suddenly made the ``eye in the sky'' accessible to everyone, from foreign governments to the average individual. Secret sites are suddenly no longer secret. Photos of Area 51, a top-secret military installation located in Nevada, were recently made available by a private company selling commercial satellite images. The wide availability of these pictures to any person or country that can afford to buy them has the potential to both help or hinder our security. 
   Initially satellites were used during the Cold War for defense purposes. These classified images were only available to the government. However, civilians began to benefit from satellite pictures about thirty years ago when the government satellite, Landsat, began to sell photos to the public for agricultural planning purposes. The first commercial satellite launch did not occur until 1986, when France, Sweden and Belgium jointly launched SPOT I. 
   The technology of satellites today has evolved considerably since  Landsat, in 1972, began providing photos to the public. Those pictures could only render images of objects larger than 250 feet across. 
   This all changed when earlier this year a private company called Space Imaging made history by distributing the first high-resolution satellite images of a North Korean ballistic missile site. Their photos had a one-meter resolution, providing the public a detailed look at the missile facilities of this rogue nation. Ruts in the road used by North Korean trucks could be seen. 
   The industry for commercial satellites is growing steadily. In 1994 President Clinton issued Presidential Decision Directive 23 which permitted the Commerce Department to license 12 U.S. companies to operate remote-sensing satellites. Space Imaging and Aerial Images, the company which took the Area 51 pictures, may be the first two of these companies to get a satellite aloft, but there are more to come. At least two other U.S. companies plan on launching satellites this year and several foreign companies have similar plans. 
   Legal restrictions surrounding these photo purchases are few. Imaging companies do not have to identify either their customers or their pictures. An amendment to the 1997 Defense Authorization Act prohibits U.S. companies from selling satellite images of Israel that show objects with a diameter under 6 feet. Any sale of images to a terrorist state or any regime under U.S. or international sanctions is also prohibited. Aside from these restrictions, there are 
   virtually no limitations on any satellite or any sale of satellite pictures. And even these restrictions are going to be harder to maintain as competition increases from more companies outside the United States. 
   At the moment, the images are expensive, limited in coverage but not difficult to purchase. Foreign governments, private groups or individuals can now place their orders. In a competitive market with more countries offering this service, there will be competition to provide more precise pictures, of a greater number of subjects, in a more timely manner, at less cost. The restrictions the U.S. now imposes will be harder to maintain in such a free market. What was secret once, will be secret no longer. 
   Pictures of Area 51, for example, were provided by a Russian launched satellite. India is also beginning a program to launch high-resolution imaging satellites and Israel is planning to launch its own commercial satellite. American restrictions on satellite images of Israel only apply to American satellites. Soon commercial satellites will also be using radar imaging--and thus will no longer be limited by the need for clear skies--and hyperspectral sensors which permit analysis of chemical characteristics. The United States government has long been part of the action. NASA's Commercial Remote Sensing Program is based at the Stennis Space Center in Mississippi. 
   But it is clear that as this competitive industry grows in the future, we should examine the impact of commercial satellites on our nation's security. Many have applauded the growth of this industry as a means of keeping the public well-informed and expanding the national discussion on issues of national and international security. It is true that having access to satellite images of other countries does enable the U.S. to monitor more areas around the world, to identify violations of international agreements, detect human rights abuses and watch for possible security threats. It will mean private, non-governmental organizations, such as the one which commissioned the pictures of North Korea, will be watching the world too, and issuing their intelligence bulletins. 
   This may result in confusing interpretations. Countries could take advantage of the fact that they may be monitored by one of these satellites. Knowing that they are being photographed by a satellite and that these images may be made public, states could attempt to blackmail the international community by staging what appears to be a more robust nuclear program or preparations for a missile test for the benefit of the threatening images that this would produce. After all pictures do not lie, do they? Or they could do exactly the opposite and disguise their advanced defense capabilities so that the images captured and released to the media actually reinforce a rogue nation's efforts to circumvent international law. 
   This possibility calls to mind the pictures taken last January of the Nodong missile launch site in North Korea. As I mentioned earlier, those pictures depicted a crude missile site and a launch pad that cuts through a rice paddy, making the North Korean facilities appear primitive and unthreatening. But these observations contradict the September 1999 National Intelligence Estimate which believes North Korea to be the country most likely to develop ICBMs capable of threatening the U.S. during the next fifteen years. If the U.S. accepts these pictures as fact and believes that the North Korean missile site is as unthreatening as it appears, should we let down our guard and disregard the threat they may pose to our country? I think not. 
   Similarly, in March of this year, satellite photos of Pakistan's nuclear facility and missile garrison were taken by a commercial satellite and sold to a Washington-based arms control organization. These images have sparked a public policy debate over their interpretation and international security implications. The organization that purchased these photos insists that they are proof that Pakistan will not be persuaded to give up its nuclear weapons program. However, a possible misinterpretation of this data could easily incite a flare-up of the already volatile relationship between Pakistan and India. 
   We cannot make assumptions about what these pictures mean when constructing our national security policy. Our eyes can deceive us. Photo interpretation is going to open up a new area of commercial employment for former government analysts. This evolving space race of the commercial satellite industry can offer us many military and civilian benefits. It can be an important tool in assisting us to make many of our national security decisions in the future. But we must also be wary about jumping to conclusions from what we see. A single picture may not be worth a thousand words. We must contemplate the use of these commercial satellites carefully and find the way to best utilize them so that they bolster, not threaten, our national security. 
   Just as Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation devices are now widely accessible, we could have a situation in which an enemy uses GPS to attack an American target identified by commercial satellite imaging. Recently, the White House announced the United States would stop its intentional degradation of the GPS signals available to the public, giving the public access to the precise location system previously possible only for the Department of Defense. Defense is requesting $500 million in FY2001 to sustain and modernize the GPS program. Much of the technology used in commercial space launches came from the military. 
   This is a strange new world. We need to gain a greater understanding of the implications of this technology on our national security. The technology may be inherently uncontrollable--just as export controls over computer encryption became impossible to sustain. Satellite imagery has the potential to be a major asset to the arms control, human rights, and environmental communities. We are witnessing the birth of a new area of information technology. I would urge my colleagues to consider this issue as we begin to examine American security in the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today during Public Service Recognition Week 2000 to encourage my colleagues to take a moment to honor the many selfless actions and outstanding accomplishments of our nation's state, local, and Federal public servants. As the ranking member on the Senate Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services, with direct jurisdiction over the Federal civil service, I take particular pride in honoring the millions of dedicated men and women who work around the clock on our behalf. 
   Their responsibilities are as varied as the challenges presented by their jobs. Our armed forces and civilian defense workers keep us out of harms's way--both domestically and abroad--our public school teachers instruct our children, and the U.S. Postal Service provides delivery to every address in the nation. Our public servants safeguard our food supplies; support our social services infrastructure, oversee and protect our economy; and so much more. These men and women are the backbone of what makes America great. We often take them for granted and in certain instances subject them to scorn and ridicule. With little recognition from the public they serve, these employees are unwavering in their dedication, honor, purpose, and ability to serve their cities, counties, states, and Federal Government. 
   I am heartened that so many school districts are fostering public service by requiring their students to serve as volunteers prior to graduating high school. As a former school teacher and administrator, I believe that voluntary service is useful and appropriate in developing a sense of community and fellowship, and I am hopeful that as each generation matures it will see the value of continuing their public service by working in state, local, or Federal Government. However, I am aware that Congress must play a role in supporting public service. 
   At a Governmental Affairs Committee hearing this week on the effectiveness of Federal employee incentive programs it became evident that the lack of sufficient funds to support viable and much-needed compensation, recognition, and incentives program for Federal employees was hampering efforts to recruit, retain, and relocate Federal workers. 
   Federal agencies, if given adequate funding, would be better positioned to utilize incentive programs that are already available. Flattened budgets and the pressure to reallocate limited resources do not benefit Federal employees or the ultimate end-user: the American taxpayer. 
   Our Nation's Federal civil servants have given much to their country, especially when Congress was balancing the budget during times of crunching deficits. Now that the country is enjoying record-breaking surpluses, I believe Federal employees should be rewarded for their contributions, and I will continue to push for realistic budgets and salaries for Federal agencies and their employees. 
   I proudly join all public service workers in observance of the 16th annual Public Service Recognition Week, and I heartily salute the past accomplishments, outstanding service, and future contribution that these outstanding men and women make to our Nation's greatness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak in morning business for 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, America is truly unique in that we are all immigrants to the United States, coming from different regions--whether from Asia, across the Bering Sea, or from islands in the Pacific Ocean, or Mexico, Europe or many other regions of the world. The prehistory and the history of this Nation are inextricably linked to the mosaic of migrations, immigrations and cultures that has resulted in the peopling of America. Americans are all travelers from other regions, continents and islands. 
   We need a better understanding of this coherent and unifying theme in America. With this in mind, I am introducing, along with my colleague Senator GRAHAM, a bill authorizing the National Park Service to conduct a theme study on the peopling of America. 
   The purpose of the study is to provide a basis for identifying, interpreting and preserving sites related to  the migration, immigration and settling of America. The peopling of America is the story of our Nation's population and how we came to be the diverse set of people that are today. The peopling of America will acknowledge the diverse set of people that we are today. The peopling of America will acknowledge the first migrants who settled the North American continent, the Pacific Islands, and the lands that later became the United States of America. The original peoples came across the Bering Sea from Asia, or they arrived at our Pacific Islands across thousands of miles of ocean from the South Pacific and Micronesia. The peopling of America continued as Spanish, Portuguese, French, Dutch and English laid claim to lands and opened the floodgates of European migration and the involuntary migration of slaves from Africa. 
   This was just the beginning. America has been growing and changing ever since. The growth and change can be characterized as the movement of groups of people across external and internal boundaries, the strength within their cultures, and the diffusion of cultural ways through the United States. The strength of American culture is in our diversity and rests on a comprehensive understanding of the peopling of America. 
   The theme study I am proposing will authorize the Secretary of the Interior to identify regions, areas, districts, structures and cultures that illustrate and commemorate key events or decisions in the peopling of America, and which can provide a basis for the preservation and interpretation of the peopling of America. It includes preservation and education strategies to capture elements of our national culture and history such as immigration, migration, ethnicity, family, gender, health, neighborhood, and community. In addition, the study will make recommendations regarding National Historic Landmark designations and National Register of Historic Places nominations, as appropriate. The study will also facilitate the development of cooperative programs with educational institutions, public history organizations, State and local governments, and groups knowledgeable about the peopling of America. 
   Mr. President, as we enter a new century of hope and opportunity, it is incumbent on us to reflect on the degree to which the development of the United States owes to our population diversity. Looking back, we understand that our history, and our very 
   national character, is defined by the grand, entangled progress of people to, and across the American landscape--through exploration, colonization, the slave trade, traditional immigration, or internal migration--that gave rise to the rich interactions that make the American experience unique. 
   We embody the culture and traditions that our forebears brought from other places and shores, as well as the new traditions and cultures that we adopted or created anew upon arrival. Whether we settled in the rangelands and agrarian West, the industrialized Northeast, the small towns of the Midwest, or the genteel cities of the South, our forebears inevitably formed relationships with peoples of other backgrounds and cultures. Our rich heritage as Americans is comprehensible only through the stories of our various contituent cultures, carried with us from other lands and transformed by encounters with other cultures. 
   All Americans were originally travelers from other lands. Whether we came to this country as native peoples, English colonists or African slaves, or as Mexican ranchers, or Chinese merchants, the process by which our nation was peopled transformed us from strangers from different shores into neighbors unified in our inimitable diversity--Americans all. It is essential for us to understand this process, not only to understand who and where we are, but also to help us understand who we wish to be and where we should be headed as a nation. As the caretaker of some of our most important cultural and historical resources, from Ellis Island to San Juan Island, from Chaco Canyon to Kennesaw Mountain, the National Park Service is in a unique position to conduct a study that can offer guidance on this fundamental subject. 
   Currently we have only one focal point in the National Park system that celebrates the peopling of America with any significance. Ellis Island is part of the Statute of Liberty National Monument. Ellis Island welcomed over 12 million immigrants between 1892 and 1954, an overwhelming majority of whom crossed the Atlantic from Europe. Ellis Island celebrates these immigrant experiences through their museum, historic buildings, and memorial wall. Immensely popular as it is, Ellis Island is focused on Atlantic immigration and thus reflects the experience only of those groups--primarily Eastern and Southern European--who were processed at the island during its active period, 1892 to 1954. 
   Not all immigrants and their descendants can identify with Ellis Island. Tens of millions of other immigrants traveled to our great country through other ports of entry and in different periods of our Nation's history and prehistory. Ellis Island only tells part of the American story. There are other chapters, just as compelling, that must be told. 
   On the west coast, Angel Island Immigration Station, tucked in San Francisco Bay, was open from 1910 to 1940 and processed hundreds of thousands of Pacific Rim immigrants through its portals. An estimated 175,000 Chinese immigrants and more than 20,000 Japanese made the Long Pacific passage to the United States. Their experience are a west coast mirror of the Ellis Island experience. But the migration story on the west coast is much longer and broader than Angel Island. Many earlier migrants to the west coast contributed to the rich history of California, including the original resident Native Americans, Spanish explorers, Mexican ranchers, Russian colonists, American migrants from the Eastern states who came overland or around the Horn, German and Irish military recruits, Chinese railroad laborers, Portuguese and Italian farmers, and many other groups. The diversity and experience of these groups reflects the diversity and experience of all immigrants who entered the United States via the Western States, including Alaska, Washington, Oregon, and California. 
   The study we propose is consistent with the agency's latest official thematic framework which establishes the subject of human population movement and change--or ``peopling places''--as a primary thematic category for study and interpretation. The framework, which serves as a general guideline for interpretation, was revised in 1996 in response to a Congressional mandate (Civil War Sites Study Act of 1990, Public Law 101-628, Sec. 1209) that the full diversity of American history and prehistory be expressed in the National Park Service's identification and interpretation of historic and prehistoric properties. 
   In conclusion, we believe that this bill will shed light on the unique blend of pluralism and unity that characterizes our national polity. With its responsibility for cultural and historical parks, the Park Service plays a unique role in enhancing our understanding of the peopling of America and thus of a fuller comprehension of our relationships with each other--past, present, and future. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this initiative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to yield my time under the present measure to the Senator from Vermont, Mr. LEAHY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, this week the sixth Nonproliferation Treaty Review Conference opened in New York. 
   At the last conference five years ago countries agreed to extend indefinitely the treaty. I recently introduced, along with Senators BAUCUS, KERRY, ROTH, BINGAMAN, KERREY, KOHL, and SCHUMER, Senate Concurrent Resolution 107, expressing support for another successful review conference. A similar bipartisan resolution will be introduced in the House. I hope my colleagues on the Foreign Relations Committee will consider this resolution as quickly as possible. 
   Some delegates to the conference have suggested that the United States is not as strongly committed as it once was to arms control, citing as examples the Senate failure to ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) and Administration negotiations with the Russians to modify the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. I wish, as do many of my distinguished colleagues, that the CTBT had been ratified. I hope that it will be. Nevertheless, I believe all my colleagues, regardless of their position on this issue, share a strong and abiding interest in pursuing arms control agreements and making the  world more secure from threats from weapons of mass destruction. 
   As Secretary of State Madeleine Albright observed in here address to the delegations to the conference ``the United States is part of the international consensus on nuclear disarmament.'' We have taken considerable steps with our allies to reduce our nuclear weapons arsenal and have made a commitment to further reductions with the Russians. 
   I share the United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan's concern--expressed at the Review Conference--that ``nuclear conflict remains a very real and very terrifying possibility at the beginning of the 21st century.'' The nuclear weapons testing by India and Pakistan in 1998 are added reasons to be worried. 
   Equally disturbing are reports that Iran is still pursuing secretly a nuclear weapon and long range missile program. While we develop a national missile defense program to protect us against limited attacks, we must strengthen those arms control regimes which help to contain the spread of weapons systems to states who may wish to harm us. 
   One of the steps that the United States and other states can take is to strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) made the IAEA safeguards system the verification arm of the NPT. While the IAEA does provide some technical assistance to countries for the peaceful use of nuclear technology, it also inspects the nuclear inventories of non-nuclear weapon members of the NPT to ensure there are no diversions to weapons use. 
   The Gulf War disclosed for the first time an Iraq nuclear weapons program which was being carried out despite IAEA inspections. This disclosure provided new impetus to strengthening the IAEA inspection system. The IAEA has developed a strengthened safeguards program which consists of more intrusive and aggressive inspections. The agency also proposes a new inspection protocol giving its inspectors more authority to collect information. Some 46 countries have signed the protocol which the United States helped develop. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to submit a Concurrent Resolution expressing the sense of the Congress concerning support for the Sixth Nonproliferation Treaty Review Conference. 
   The Sixth Nonproliferation Treaty Review Conference will begin on April 24th in New York City. For the first time since the member parties agreed five years ago to a permanent extension to this important arms control agreement, states will be meeting to discuss additional efforts to strengthen the treaty. 
   Thirty years ago, this treaty entered into force with 43 signatories. The number of parties to the agreement has increased to 187. Only four states--India, Pakistan, Israel, and Cuba--are not members. 
   At the time of the last review conference in 1995, members agreed to hold review meetings every five years to assess progress in implementing efforts to attain the treaty's objectives. 
   The resolution that I am introducing today, along with Senators BAUCUS,  KERRY, ROTH and BINGAMAN, reaffirms Congressional support for the objectives of the Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) and calls on all parties participating in the review conference to make a good faith effort to ensure the conference's success. A similar resolution is being introduced in the House of Representatives. 
   Many states have called into question American commitment to the control of nuclear weapons because of the Senate vote last year on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and because of fears that the American development of a national missile and theater missile defense systems are efforts to negate the Anti Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM). 
   I believe that Congressional support for the NPT and for other workable arms control agreements that achieve serious reductions in weapons of mass destruction is as strong as ever. The Congress will be looking very closely at this conference for reassurance that the other parties to the NPT, most especially the other nuclear weapons states such as China and Russia, share an equal commitment to attaining the objectives of the NPT. 
   There have been suggestions that states will attempt to disrupt the conference by walking out or by proposing resolutions critical of the United States and other states. Such efforts will damage the treaty and give satisfaction only to those countries, such as Iraq and Iran, who still appear to desire nuclear weapons. 
   Our resolution also expresses support for strengthening the international verification system operated by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). When the NPT was negotiated in 1970, the IAEA safeguards system was designated as its global verification mechanism. IAEA inspectors review the nuclear programs of all non-nuclear weapon members and, while the five legally recognized nuclear weapons states--Britain, France, China, Russia, United States--are not obligated to permit inspections, in practice IAEA has some access to their facilities. 
   The Gulf War revealed inadequacies in the IAEA safeguard system. The discovery of Iraq's secret nuclear program demonstrated the need for additional IAEA powers of information collection and inspection. Efforts are now underway to develop a Strengthened Safeguards system of which a critical part will be a new inspection protocol providing IAEA inspectors additional authority to collect more information about a wider range of activities. This new information and access will be critical to detecting states, such as Iraq and Iran, who may try to develop secretly a nuclear weapon. 
   There is no greater threat to America's security than the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Nonproliferation Treaty and the role of the IAEA are essential parts of our efforts to prevent nuclear catastrophe. I urge my colleagues to join in supporting this resolution and ensuring its speedy consideration.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000410</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000410</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, during last week's consideration of S. Con. Res. 101, the congressional budget resolution, the Senate by voice vote agreed to a modified amendment (amendment 3028) offered by the Senator from New Hampshire (Senator SMITH) that:  
   Assume(s) that no American will be prosecuted, fined or in anyway harassed by the Federal government or its agents for failure to respond to any census questions which refer to an individual's race, national origin, living conditions, personal habits or mental and/or physical condition, but that all Americans are encouraged to send in their census forms.  
   There are serious consequences for state, local, and Federal Government when people are missed by the census. There are approximately 1,327 federal domestic assistance programs that use population information in some way. The breadth of the programs affected that touch families and businesses throughout the nation clearly spells out the need to ensure that all Americans are counted. The questions asked by the census represent a balance between the needs of our nation's communities and the need to keep the time and effort required to complete the form to a minimum. Federal and state funds for schools, employment services, housing assistance, road construction, day care facilities, hospitals, emergency services, programs for seniors, and much more are distributed based on census figures. 
   The percentage of people undercounted in Hawaii--1.9 percent--was higher than the national average, and the largest component of the undercount by race was projected to be Asians and Pacific Islanders. I was so concerned that Hawaii would once more have a higher than average undercount that on March 14, 2000, I held a forum in Hawaii on the Census 2000. At that forum, I urge Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders to take advantage of the 2000 Census as an opportunity to be accurately represented in data and statistics that will impact our lives for the next 10 years. During the forum, which was attended by Congressman ENI FALEOMAVAEGA from American Samoa, Hawaii's Lieutenant Governor Mazie Hirono, representatives from the Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Department of Interior, and various Native Hawaiian and Other  Pacific Islander organizations, I strongly urged everyone to answer their questionnaires. 
   The Senate agreed to the Smith amendment, as modified, on April 7, 2000. However, if there is no objection, I am submitting to the RECORD a statement by Census Director Kenneth Prewitt, regarding the Sense of the Senate amendment, Number 3028 to the concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 101:  
   The Census Bureau is required by law to collect a complete response from every resident in America to both the census short and long forms. Today's sense of the Senate amendment would undermine the quality of information from both forms. Census 2000 is not designed by law as a pick and choose exercise. Serious degradation of census information will negatively affect economic policy-making, public sector expenditures and private sector investment for a decade. 
   The census procedures require enumerators in the non-response follow up phase to make six attempts to collect information. Congress would have to advise the Census Bureau whether six attempts (or even a single attempt) would constitute harassment.  
   Kenneth Prewitt,
   Director, U.S. Census Bureau,
   April 7, 2000.
   Madam President, I suggest the absence after quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, on March 18th the people of Taiwan elected Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) leaders Chen Shui-bian, former mayor of Taipei, to be President, and Annette Lu to be Vice-President of Taiwan. 
   This was an historic vote, representing the first recorded, peaceful transfer of power in any Chinese political system in 5,000 years. A free and fair vote by 80 percent of the electorate occurred without violence with a military that remained in the barracks. 
   It was a vote with implications not only for the people on Taiwan but also for China and the United States. 
   First, the vote represented a rejection by a majority of the voters of the traditional ruling Kuomintang Party (KMT) and a vote in favor of political reform and change in Taiwan. There was a clear desire by the people to cleanse the political system that they viewed as corrupt. That the DPP could win a national election after having only been formed in 1986 indicates the maturity of the political system, as well as the deep desire for change. 
   The first steps by President-elect Chen Shui-bian indicate the political sophistication of Taiwan's future leaders. He made conciliatory statements towards China, stating that he would avoid declaring independence and emphasizing that ``the people's top priority is peaceful cross-strait relations'' while declaring his willingness to ``negotiate cross-strait air travel, trade and investment, peace agreements, and military conference-building measures with the mainland.'' He has offered to meet with China's leaders, even to travel to Beijing. His party is now considering dropping its pro-independence policy in its party platform. 
   He has nominated the current Kuomintang Defense Minister, Tang Fei, to be his Premier. General Tang was born in China. And in another step towards reform both major parties have reached an agreement to reduce the powers of the National Assembly and to strengthen those of the Legislative Yuan, the nation's parliament. 
   The breath of fresh air blowing through Taiwan has not been matched in Beijing. In the run-up to the election the only wind out of China was the fierce breath of threats. Central Military Commission Vice-Chairman General Zhang and Vice Premier Qian Qichen both declared that ``Taiwan independence means war.'' A People's Liberation Army publication stated that ``the PLA is determined to liberate Taiwan. If they meet hard resistance, then they can choose to use weapons of mass destruction, like neutron bombs.'' 
   Since the election, there has been some diminishment of the intensity of the attacks but Beijing remains consistent in its criticism and insistence on Taiwanese concessions. Last week, at a conference on Taiwan in Washington organized by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, PLA Senior Colonel Luo Yuan observed that ``if you no longer acknowledge you are Chinese and sell off Chinese national interests, the Chinese government will definitely punish this national traitor. [.....] Once the Taiwan independence provokes an impasse, then we have no choice but the use of blood to uphold the authority.'' China's official Xinhua News Agency has commented that ``Lee Teng-hui's ignominious fate proves that all those who engage in `Taiwan independence' and splittism and try resorting to trickery to hoodwink the world will come to no good end. The wages of sin is death.'' Vice Premier Qian has insisted that there can be no negotiations with Chen or his envoys unless he accepts the principle that Taiwan is part of China and commits to negotiating only over the modalities of reunification. 
   The quandary China finds itself now in is typified by the Beijing waiter, quoted in a recent Washington Post article, who commented as he watched news of the Taiwan elections, ``their lives are better than ours, economically and politically. They have more freedom. They can elect their leaders.'' 
   One of the first actions by the Taiwanese political parties was to reform its political structure by reducing the role of the National Assembly sending another powerful signal to the Mainland where its hand-picked, 2,978 strong, National People's Congress delegate just met for stage-managed debates. 
   China's leaders have been struggling to earn the degree of legitimacy through economic reform alone and through the continued use of force to suppress dissent that Taiwan's leaders have earned at the ballot box through the exercise of free speech and free trade. No longer can China's leaders look across the Straits and see a mirror of themselves in Taiwan's former exiled rulers. 
   Instead they see an example of a political system which evolved in a few short 
   years from totalitarian rule to a democracy. Martial law rule ended in Taiwan in 1987. A new legislature was elected in 1992. There were presidential elections in 1996, local elections in 1997 and 1998, and a second presidential election in 2000.  
   China's Deputy Chief of Mission in Washington Liu Xiaoming described Taiwan's presidential election as ``a local election in an area of China.'' Yet, even if his description is accepted, it demonstrates how far the rest of China has to go: in China, a germinating democracy has not progressed beyond the stage of local village elections. Municipal or national elections have yet to be held. 
   As President Clinton so succinctly observed, ``the election provides a fresh opportunity for both sides to reach out and resolve their differences through dialogue.'' 
   Ironically, it is China, which had urged Taiwan to adopt direct trade, postal, and telecommunications links while Taiwan under President Lee rejected such direct ties, that now rejects President-elect Chen's offers to institute direct contacts. 
   There apparently is the perception even inside China that their policy needs to be changed. One official was quoted over the weekend as saying, ``we are painting ourselves into a corner. We are tough when we should be soft and passive when we should be taking the initiative.'' 
   Yet, even as Taiwan has grown apart from China, it has also grown closer. It has invested $24 billion in China and China now accounts for 23 percent of all Taiwanese exports. Taiwan's and China's economic progress have become mutually self-sustaining. 
   As a result, we should not be painting China into a corner now. As it attempts to come to terms with the new realities in Taiwan, we should be taking steps to welcome China into a greater, more responsible role in the international system. A critical step in that regard is granting China Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR). This critical vote in the U.S. Congress promises to open up China's markets to greater competition and more goods from the West. PNTR does not mean that China will be a democracy, nor does it mean instant benefits for the American economy, but it is a step towards integrating China into the new world community. 
   Shortly after China joins the World Trade Organization, Taiwan will join. This is the third new reality with which American policymakers must contend. Taiwan has changed. It is not the single-party dictatorship which it was when the Taiwan Relations Act or the three communiques were promulgated. It is a vibrant democracy with a strong economy. It has long clamored to be allowed to play a more active role in the world community by providing assistance to international aid organizations or in UN Specialized Agencies. Can a new role be found for the Taiwan of today in tomorrow's world? Finding one may well be the key if China and Taiwan are to resolve their differences and achieve conciliation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to a Native Hawaiian Master Artist Rocky Ka'ioliokahihikolo'Ehu Jensen. Ka'ioliokahihikolo'Ehu, ``The black-hawk-striving-towards-the-source-child-of-the-Ehu,'' is the descendant of High Chief Iwikauikau; Hawaiian warrior chiefs from the islands of Hawai'i (Keli'iwaiho'ikeone); Kaua'i (Kahihikolo); Moloka'i (Keka' alauniu); and O'ahu (Ka'io); and Kahuna (Shaman) from Ko'olaupoko, O'ahu (Mamaki) and Manoa, O'ahu (Papanu' umealani). Rocky is one of Hawai'i's brightest local talents who has dedicated his life to the perpetuation of Hawaiian culture through his powerful artistry. He is recognized by our State Foundation on Culture and the Arts as a master sculptor and is talented in other media as well. 
   Born in Honolulu on April 8, 1944, Rocky Jensen absorbed cultural traditions from his grandparents with whom he spent his summers. His artistic talents were recognized at an early age when he won his first art scholarship from the Honolulu Academy of Arts at the age of nine. He was educated in Hawai'i and the mainland where he graduated from junior college. This talented artist continued his post-secondary education in Hawai'i and was tutored by renown artists. He has in turn lectured, conducted seminars, advised and served as a consultant on Hawaiian issues, and written magazine and newspaper articles on Hawaiian history and art. He continues to do so. 
   Rocky Jensen has held numerous exhibitions in leading museums of the world, including several first such as the organizing Hale Naua III, the first native art society and the first contemporary native Hawaiian are exhibit at Honolulu Hale as well as the Bishop Museum. He has been recognized in American Artists of Renown: 1981-1982, Crafts of America (1987-1989), and the California Art Review: 1990. 
   Rocky Jensen's better known works include his 1970 illustration of ``twenty men'' for ``Men of Ancient Hawai'i,'' in which he set a precedent for proper historical attire and artifacts. To this day, this illustration stands as testimony to meticulous research and artistry. More recently, Rocky has been acclaimed for Na Lehua Helele'i, a memorial which honors pre-contact Hawaiian warriors. Lehua greets visitors at the entrance of the U.S. Army Museum of Hawaii at Fort DeRussy, the most visited Army Museum. 
   Na Lehua Helele'i, ``the scattered lehua blossoms,'' an ancient Hawaiian phrase that equates the red petals with the blood of fallen warriors, is one of his major works and perhaps his most heroic, sculptured with great force and expression. Lehua, a memorial to pre-contact Hawaiian warriors, consists of five eight-foot-tall images of Ku, the god of war, carved out of native ohi'a logs and ensconced in a semi-circle fronting the museum. Each image is similar but depicts the different faces of Ku, his benign, healing qualities as well as warlike aspects. Na Lehua Helele'i was a twenty-year labor of love and commitment at great personal sacrifice. Since its unveiling a year ago, some have proclaimed it to be one of the best works in the state. 
   Mr. President, I salute the talent and generosity of Native Hawaiian Master Artist Rocky Ka'ioliokahihikolo' Ehu Jensen. To Lucia, wife and partner, mahalo from the bottom of my heart for sharing Rocky with us. And, taking advantage of a fortuitous and joyful coincidence, happy birthday, Rocky, and many, many more years of outstanding artistry. I also want to take this opportunity to wish you and Lucia every success as you launch Makaku or ``inner Eye,'' your studio/school.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of H.R. 1000, the Air Transportation Improvement Act. This measure will enhance the safety and efficiency of our air transportation system, upon which the island state of Hawaii depends upon so much. I am especially supportive of title VIII, the National Parks Air Tour Management Act of 2000. 
   Mr. President, title VIII of H.R. 1000 establishes a comprehensive regulatory framework for controlling air tour traffic in and near units of the National Park System. This legislation requires the Federal Aviation Administration, in cooperation with the National Park Service and with input from stakeholders, to develop an air tour management plan, known as ATMP's, for parks currently or potentially affected by air tour flights. 
   The ATMP process evaluates routes, altitudes, time restrictions, limitations on, and other operating parameters to protect sensitive park resources and to enhance the safety of air tour operations. An ATMP could prohibit air tours at a park entirely, regulate air tours within 1/2 mile of park boundaries, regulate air tour operations that affect tribal lands, and offer incentives for the adoption of quieter air technology. 
   H.R. 1000 also creates an advisory group comprised of representatives of the FAA, the Park Service, the aviation industry, the environmental community, and tribes to provide advice, information, and recommendations on overflight issues. 
   Through the ATMP process, this bill treats overflights issues on a park-by-park basis. Rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, the legislation establishes a fair and rational mechanism through which environmental and aviation needs can be addressed in the context of the unique circumstances that exist at individual national parks. 
   I am pleased that this procedural approach, in addition to requirements for meaningful public consultation and a mechanism for promoting dialog among diverse stakeholders, mirrors key elements of legislation, the National Parks Airspace Management Act, that I sponsored in several previous Congresses. 
   Mr. President, adoption of this bill is essential if we are to address the detrimental impact of air tour activities on the National Park System effectively. Air tourism has significantly increased in the last decade, nowhere more so than over high profile units such as the Grand Canyon, Great Smoky Mountains, and Haleakala and Hawaii Volcanoes national parks. A 1994 Park Service study indicated that nearly a hundred parks experienced adverse park impacts, and that number has certainly increased since then. Such growth has inevitably conflicted with the qualities and values that many park units were established to promote. 
   Air tour operators often provide important emergency services while enhancing park access for special populations like the physically challenged and older Americans. Furthermore, air tour operators offer an important source of income for local economies, notably tourism-dependent areas such as Hawaii. However, unregulated overflights have the potential to harm park ecologies, distress wildlife, and impair visitor enjoyment of the park experience. Unrestricted air tour operations also pose a safety hazard to air and ground visitors alike. 
   It is therefore vital that we develop a clear, consistent national policy on this issue, one that equitably and rationally prioritizes the respective interests of the aviation and environmental communities. Congress and the Administration have struggled to develop such a policy since enactment of the National Parks Overflights Act of 1987, Congress' initial, but limited, attempt 
   to address the overflights issue. Title VIII of H.R. 1000 will finish where the 1987 act left off, providing the FAA and Park Service with the policy guidance and procedural mechanisms that are essential to balance the needs of air tour operators with the imperative to preserve and protect our natural resources. 
   Mr. President, the overflights provisions of this bill are the product of good faith efforts on the part of many groups and individuals. They include members of the National Parks Overflights Working Group, whose consensus recommendations from the underpinnings of this legislation; representatives of air tour and environmental advocacy organizations such as Helicopter Association International and the National Parks and Conservation Association; and, officials of the FAA and Park Service. 
   However, title VIII is above all the product of the energy and vision of Senator JOHN MCCAIN. As the author of the 1987 National Parks Overflights Act, Senator MCCAIN was the first to recognize the adverse impacts of air tours on national parks, and the first to call for a national policy to address this problem. Since then, he has employed his moral authority and legislative skills to advance a constructive solution on this subject. For his leadership in writing this bill and for his long advocacy of park overflight issues, Senator MCCAIN deserves our lasting appreciation. 
   Mr. President, I am honored to have worked closely with Senator MCCAIN over the last few years to formulate an overflights bill that promotes aviation safety, enhances the viability of legitimate air tour operations, and protects national parks from the most egregious visual and noise intrusions by air tour helicopters and other aircraft. Left unchecked, air tour activities can undermine the very qualities and resources  that give value to a park. I believe that the pending measure reasonably and prudently balances these sometimes opposing considerations, and urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Before I conclude my remarks, Mr. President, I would like to recognize the staff of the Commerce Committee for their hard work in putting this legislation together. Ann Choiniere deserves mention for her day-to-day management of the overflights issue. I would also like to recognize former members of my own staff, Kerry Taylor, Bob Weir, Steve Oppermann, and John Tagami, who made important contributions to this issue. Steve in particular has served as an expert resource whose tireless, and largely unheralded contribution has shaped the overflights debate in a major way. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I cosponsor the Federal Employees and Uniformed Services Long-Term Care Group Insurance Act of 2000, introduced by the Senator from Georgia [Mr. CLELAND], the ranking minority member of the HELP Aging Subcommittee [Ms. MIKULSKI], and the chairman of the Special Committee on Aging [Mr. GRASSLEY]. This bipartisan legislation is testament to what can be accomplished when members from both sides of the aisle have a common goal. I salute the months-long effort undertaken by my colleagues and their staffs to bring this compromise bill to fruition. 
   As the ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services, with direct jurisdiction over this measure, I am mindful that there are several long-term care bills pending before the Subcommittee. However, I would like to point out that the three pending bills, S. 894, S. 57, and S. 36, are original proposals introduced by the Senators from Georgia, Maryland, and Iowa, who have combined features from each of their bills to craft a measure that will address the long-term care insurance needs of federal and military personnel and their families. 
   Many Americans mistakenly believe that Medicare and their regular health insurance programs will pay for long-term care. They do not. Although Medicaid provides some long-term care support, an individual generally must ``spend-down,'' his or her income and assets to qualify for coverage. 
   More and more Americans are requiring long-term care. About 5.8 million Americans aged 65 or older require long-term, care due to illness or disability. An approximately equal number of children and adults under the age of 65 also require long-term care because of health conditions from birth or a chronic illness developed later in life. 
   The need for long-term care is great. By the year 2030, the number of Americans age 65 years or older will double, from 34.3 to 69.4 million. The cost of nursing home care now exceeds $40,000 per year in many parts of the country, and home care visits for nursing or physical therapy runs about $100 per visit. In 1996, over $107 billion was spent on nursing homes and home health care. However, this figure does not take into account that fully 80 percent of all long-term care services are provided by family and friends. 
   In my own state of Hawaii, 13.2 percent of the population is persons 65 and older. Although Hawaii enjoys one of the highest life expectancies--79 years, compared to a national average of 75 years--the state's rapidly aging population will greatly impact available resources for long-term care, both institutional and from non-institutional sources. Hawaii's long-term care facilities are operating at full capacity. According to the Hawaii State Department of Health, the average occupancy rate peaked at 97.8 percent in 1994. But occupancy remains high. By 1997, the average occupancy dropped to 90 percent. 
   These statistics point to the overriding need to help American families provide dignified and appropriate care to their parents and relatives. We know that the demand for long-term care will increase with each passing year, and that federal, state, and local resources cannot cover the expected costs. Nursing home costs are expected to reach $97,000 by the year 2030. 
   What Congress can do, however, is make long-term care insurance available to a broad segment of the population and offer a model for the private sector. The bill introduced today will provide quality group long-term care insurance to the nation's federal employees, including postal workers, members of the Foreign Service, and Uniformed Services. Retirees of these agencies and their spouses, parents, and parents-in-law will be eligible to participate, and employees in a ``deferred annuitant status'' can enroll when retirement benefits are activated. The bill has broad-based support, including endorsement by the National Treasury Employees Union and the National Association of Retired Federal Employees, two federal employee unions, as well as the Military Consortium, an organization of the major military groups. 
   The proposal parallels portions of the President's four-part initiative designed to address long-term health, including having the federal government  serve as a model employer by offering quality private long-term care insurance to federal employees. The bill introduced today allows the Office of Personnel Management to use its market leverage to offer enrollee-paid quality private long-term care insurance to federal employees, military personnel, retirees, and their families at group rates. Participants would pay the full premium, whose costs are expected to be 10-20 percent lower than open market rates. There would be options, including cash reimbursement for family care givers, tax exemptions under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and portability benefits--features that will provide enrollees the ability to tailor policies to individual needs. 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this bill, which will offer federal employees, uniformed service personnel, retirees, and their families an opportunity to plan for future long-term care needs in a responsible manner. I foresee this proposal as serving as a model for the private sector and state and local governments, and I again thank my colleagues for their diligence in crafting this compromise measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to associate my remarks with those of my colleagues over the past few days while we have discussed S. 1134, the education savings accounts bill. I am pleased that education has been raised as a priority by this body. Education will continue to be a high-profile issue as we continue to work on the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee has started to markup. At this time, I would like to talk about a number of related issues that need to be addressed from the Federal level. 
   I began my career as an educator. I taught music, social studies, math, and other subjects in Hawaii's classrooms. I ran schools as a vice principal and principal. In my current position, I still come in direct contact with students who travel thousands of miles from my great State of Hawaii to tell me what is good and what is bad about their education. It is no surprise that the bulk of these students are in public school, since 90 percent of American students are served by the public school system. When I ask students what makes the biggest difference in how they learn, they talk about teachers who motivate and the commitment they put into subjects. When asked about how their education can improve, students lament the poor conditions of playgrounds and classrooms, overcrowding in classrooms, the lack of proper textbooks, and the need for more and better computers. 
   My colleagues have touched on these, and many other problems, as they debated amendments to S. 1134. I supported the amendment offered by my colleague from Virginia, Senator ROBB, which sought to authorize $24.8 billion in school modernization bonds and a $1.3 billion grant and zero-interest loan program for urgent school repairs. The modernization bonds would build or modernize 6,000 schools and the grant/loan program would finance about 8,300 urgent repair projects. Although states have addressed some of these needs, students are still learning in substandard conditions. 
   The Federal Government can assist with these projects. This has been acknowledged through the inclusion of a school construction provision in S. 1134. Unfortunately, this provision will only help a handful of schools in need, as opposed to the comprehensive assistance that would have been made available if the Robb amendment were adopted. 
   Regarding the conditions in Hawaii's schools, 73 percent need to upgrade or repair buildings to good overall condition, 57 percent have at least one inadequate building feature--such as a condition related to plumbing or electricity--and 78 percent report at least one unsatisfactory environmental factor such as poor air quality or ventilation. Because of Hawaii's temperate climate, we do not have to worry about having to heat our classrooms in the winter. However, we face other challenges such as corrosion due to the amount of salt in the air from the ocean. Funding in the Robb amendment would take into account the differences across states and provide assistance for the myriad of problems facing our schools. 
   The Campaign to Rebuild America's Schools tells me that Hawaii faces a $955 million cost for school modernization--nearly 80 percent for infrastructure and more than 20 percent of that for technology needs. The 
   school modernization initiative would provide Hawaii's schools with $63 million to meet some of these needs. I will continue to work with my colleagues to pass this legislation. 
   I have also been a long-time supporter of class size reduction efforts. I voted for the Murray amendment, which would continue the help to communities to hire 100,000 quality teachers to reduce class size in lower grades. I was pleased to see the second installment of this initiative funded through last year's appropriations process, which will provide Hawaii with more than $6 million in fiscal year 2000. The President's budget request for fiscal year 2001 would increase this funding to Hawaii to more than $8 million. 
   Our students deserve the best possible learning environment. Larger classes of 30 or 35 students tend to be noisier, have greater potential to be disruptive, and provide less teacher time to each student, compared to classes with fewer students. Many students are struggling through courses, and some of this can be attributed to their presence in larger classes. Impending teacher shortages will compound this problem, as well as will record school enrollments that will only increase, into the new millennium. The class size reduction initiative would help mitigate these problems facing our school-age generations. 
   I support other amendments that were taken up and are anticipated to S. 1134, and I commend my colleagues for their work on this bill. These include Senator ABRAHAM for working to provide more computers and increased technology in classrooms and Senators GRAHAM and HUTCHISON for encouraging individuals to transition their careers into teaching. I also support Senator WELLSTONE in his ongoing effort to look at the levels and effects of child poverty. 
   Mr. President, I would like to make a final point about worthy legislation in this area. I have a bill, S. 1487, the Excellence in Economic Education Act, that would work to boost economic literacy in the country. I will not offer my bill as an amendment to S. 1134 at this time, but I intend to do so when the Elementary and Secondary Education Act comes before the Senate. In this debate about education, I must highlight the need for us to educate Americans, starting from a young age, about the importance of many aspects of economic education: personal finance, consumer education, entrepreneurship, career and retirement planning. It is important for our students to have a practical understanding of economics to help them in their daily lives, and my bill would help. It provides funding directly to the State and local level by giving grants to economic education councils and centers nationwide through the National Council on Economic Education. It also provides assistance on the national level to boost resources developed by the National Council that help states and schools teach economics to teachers and students. I hope that my colleagues will support my effort to pass this legislation during ESEA debate. 
   Mr. President, I am glad to have this opportunity to talk about the importance of education. We must continue to make significant investments in the future of this country, and we can accomplish this by magnifying the resources that we provide to education. 
   To finish my remarks, I would like to comment on one more thing that I hear  from Hawaii's students. I am frequently impressed by the thoughtful ideas and expressions of concern voiced by the young men and women I meet. Students talk about issues that are surprisingly values-based: the need to treat one another with kindness and respect. Or, as we say in Hawaiian, ``malama'': to take care of, to care for, or to support. With all of the tragic incidents at our schools, I hope that our students can achieve a better understanding of the value of human life so that these incidents can be reduced. America's youth should strive to understand why we must treat others as we would like to be treated. Some of this helpful dialogue is occurring naturally, initiated by the students themselves, in our schools. We must do what we can to support our young people as they tangle with these often overwhelming and disturbing issues. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of the legislation introduced today by the distinguished Senators from Montana (Mr. BAUCUS) and Alaska (Mr. MURKOWSKI) entitled the ``China-World Trade Organization Compliance Act.'' 
   Last November, the United States and China announced that a bilateral agreement had been reached on China's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). The agreement covers all agricultural products, industrial goods, and service areas. It promises to open up the Chinese market to American exports and American investment. 
   Nevertheless, many Americans are hesitant at embracing this accord. Part of their concern is over the requirement that in order for the United States to benefit fully from this agreement. Congress will have to pass legislation granting permanent Normal Trade Relations (NTR) status to China. Previously known as Most-Favored-Nation (MFN) trading status, NTR has been subject to an annual renewal vote each year in the Congress. This yearly vote has allowed for a full airing of American concerns over relations with China--relations which remain contentious to this day because of the Chinese government's human rights behavior, proliferation activities, trade policy, and relations with its neighbors, most especially Taiwan. 
   I cannot predict the result of the vote later this year on granting China permanent NTR. 
   I do know that a Congressional vote against China will not necessarily prevent China from joining the WTO if it concludes successfully its accession agreements with other WTO members. China still has to resolve issues with the European Union and then have its accession approved by the WTO General Council/Ministerial Conference. But I think it is reasonable to assume that later this year China will join the WTO whether or not the United States grants permanent NTR. 
   In light of this possibility, the legislation proposed today by my colleagues, and which I am pleased to cosponsor, is a reasonable and prudent step to take in order to ensure that the agreements which China commits to in joining the WTO are ones which China will fulfill. 
   The history of Chinese compliance with international agreements has not been as good as it should be. In particular, China has not successfully implemented the commitments it made in March 1995 to protect American intellectual property rights. Intellectual piracy remains a major threat to the American music, cinema, and computer software industries. The Chinese government has demonstrated an impressive ability to arrest and intimidate massive numbers of Falun Gong followers but seems unable to locate factories mass producing thousands of counterfeit CDs, videos, and computer software. Clearly, where there is a will, there is a way for the Chinese government.  
   In addition, the Chinese government has proven itself very adept at protecting its domestic market from foreign goods and investment, devising formal and informal barriers to trade. The concept of transparency in Chinese trade law leaves much to be desired. An October 1992 market access agreement between the United States and China has yet to be fully implemented with China eliminating some barriers while imposing new ones. 
   The pattern of past Chinese behavior to international trading agreements suggest that we must be vigilant in ensuring compliance with the WTO accession agreement. 
   The legislation we offer today is a significant step towards ensuring that China's promises are fulfilled. The bill establishes a process within the United States government for monitoring Chinese compliance with its WTO commitments. The monitoring would occur regardless of whether or not the United States grants permanent NTR to China, although surely it would have more effect if we do grant this to China. 
   We have lacked a process, and an agency, within the United States government with the mandate, the expertise, institutional memory, and the resources to ensure that the promise of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements are fulfilled. This legislation is a major step in starting the debate on how to ensure that promises made are promises kept. 
   As ranking member of the International Security, Proliferation And Federal Services Subcommittee of the Governmental Affairs Committee, I am keenly interested in the implications of the legislation for the organization of our government's trade agencies. There are several areas where I would like to work with the legislation's authors to refine their proposal. I believe that it might be appropriate to designate the United States Trade Representative's Office as the lead agency working with other agencies to monitor compliance. I intend to study further the best means for ensuring the effectiveness of this legislation. 
   I believe it also important that public participation in commenting on China's compliance should not be limited to business groups but include environmental, labor, and human rights organizations. The climate affecting the world economy is not solely determined by the financial bottom line. 
   This legislation is an important step towards a trade environment which benefits the many, not the few, and I am pleased to cosponsor it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I extend my appreciation to our chairman, Senator MURKOWSKI, for all he has done. He has given an extraordinary and accurate and descriptive report of our visit to CNMI. I will follow with some remarks. 
   At this time, I yield to my friend from Wisconsin, Senator FEINGOLD, for his remarks, to be recognized after he has concluded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I thank my friend from the State of Wisconsin for his statement. I also thank him for saying what he felt about the CNMI. 
   I express my gratitude to the majority leader for scheduling this bill today and also the Democratic leader for supporting it. I look forward to working out this bill with my friend, the chairman, Senator MURKOWSKI. 
   As we begin today's debate, I want to express my sincere thanks to the leadership of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources for their commitment to CNMI immigration reform. The Senator from Alaska, Chairman MURKOWSKI, and the Senator from New Mexico, Senator BINGAMAN, understand that a great injustice is taking place far from the Nation's Capitol. That is why they have brought this legislation to the Senate floor. Their efforts prove that they live by the words of one of our Senate titans, Daniel Webster, who proclaimed justice the ``great interest of man on earth.'' 
   Perhaps some Senators, and many viewers who are watching these proceedings in the gallery or on television, are wondering, ``Why is the United States Senate--that great deliberative body in the world's strongest democracy--taking time from its busy schedule to debate legislation that affects a distant island community with a population of only 70,000 people?'' You might ask, ``Why don't we work on other important legislation, such as nuclear waste policy, judicial nominations, or health care for our armed forces?'' 
   The answer to these questions is that conditions in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana are an affront to democratic values. The answer is that the CNMI immigration system has sparked international protests from our Pacific allies. 
   Immigration in the Commonwealth violates fundamental standards of morality and human decency. That's why we must pass the reform measure pending in the Senate. 
   Chairman MURKOWSKI is a longstanding champion of CNMI immigration reform. 
   He is the only Senator in recent memory to visit the Commonwealth, where he witnessed the profound problems caused by their local immigration law. 
   I doubt that many of my colleagues know very much about the CNMI, a U.S. Island territory located 1,500 miles south of Tokyo. 
   Those Senators who are familiar with the territory have probably read the growing number of articles on the immigration and labor abuse in the Commonwealth. Yet only Chairman MURKOWSKI has visited the islands to get a first-hand understanding of their problems. I joined him on his tour of the CNMI in February of 1996. 
   The statement that was made by the chairman on what we saw there, as I said, is accurate and very descriptive. It was a shame to see that a part of the United States is living under those conditions. 
   The legislation before us won't correct all of the Commonwealth's problems, but it will address the most significant concern, immigration abuse. Chairman MURKOWSKI is a man of the Pacific who understands the need to have an immigration policy that reflects America values. 
   The states we represent, Alaska and Hawaii, are closest to our Pacific neighbors, and we recognize the need to respond to problems that generate strong protests from other Pacific nations. I am honored to join him as a cosponsor of S. 1052, legislation to reform immigration abuses in the CNMI. 
   When the CNMI became a U.S. commonwealth in 1976, Congress granted it local control over immigration at the request of island leaders. This means that the Immigration and Nationality Act does not apply in the CNMI. We now know this decision was a great mistake. 
   Using its immigration authority, the Commonwealth has created a plantation economy that relies upon wholesale importation of low-paid, short-term indentured workers. Indentured servitude, a practice outlawed in the United States over 100 years ago, had resurfaced in the CNMI. 
   Foreign workers pay up to $7,000 to employers or middlemen for the right to a job in the CNMI. When they finally reach the Commonwealth, they are assigned to tedious, low paying work for long hours with little or no time off. At night they are locked in prison-like barracks. 
   If they complain, they are subject to immediate deportation at the whim of their employer. 
   Some arrive in the islands only to find that they were victims of an employment scam. There are no jobs waiting for them, and no way to work off their bondage debt. 
   Concern about the CNMI's longstanding immigration problems has historically been bipartisan. In fact, officials in the Reagan administration first sounded the alarm about the run-away immigration policies that the Commonwealth adopted. 
   The administration of every President in the past 16 years--the Reagan, Bush, and Clinton administrations--has consistently criticized the Commonwealth's immigration policy. 
   Bipartisan studies have also condemned CNMI Immigration. 
   The Commission on Immigration Reform called the CNMI system of immigration and indentured labor ``antithetical to American values.'' According to the Commission, no democratic society has an immigration policy like the CNMI. 
   The closest equivalent is Kuwait, where foreign workers constitute a majority of the workforce and suffer harsh and discriminatory treatment by the citizen population. 
   For this reason, the CNMI has also become an international embarrassment for the United States. 
   We have received complaints from the Philippines, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh about immigration abuse and the treatment of workers. They failure of the Commonwealth to reform its immigration system has seriously tarnished our image in the region. 
   Concerns about the CNMI are not new. Perhaps we should be criticized for not acting sooner. Yet, despite a 14-year effort by the Reagan, Bush, and Clinton administrations to persuade the CNMI to correct immigration problems, the problems persist. 
   After 14 years of waiting for the Commonwealth to implement reform, it is time for Congress to act. Statistics on Commonwealth immigration provide compelling evidence of the need for reform. 
   Twenty years ago, the CNMI had a population of 15,000 citizens and 2,000 alien workers. 
   Today, the citizen population stands at 28,000, but the alien worker population has mushroomed to 42,000. That's a 2,000 percent increase. 
   The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that the CNMI has no reliable records of aliens entering the Commonwealth, how long they remain, and when, if ever, they depart. One CNMI official testified that they have  ``no effective control'' over immigration in their islands. 
   The CNMI shares the American flag, but it does not share our immigration system. When the Commonwealth became a territory of the United States, we allowed them to write their own immigration laws. 
   After twenty years of experience, the CNMI immigration experiment has failed. 
   Conditions in the CNMI prompt the question whether the U.S. should operate a unified immigration system, or whether a U.S. territory should be allowed to establish laws in conflict with national immigration policy. 
   Common sense tells us that a unified system is the only answer. If Puerto Rico, or Hawaii, or Arizona, or Oklahoma could write their own immigration laws--and give work visas to foreigners--our national immigration system would be in chaos. 
   America is one country. We need a uniform immigration system, not one system for the 50 states and another system for one of our territories. 
   I don't represent the CNMI, but the Commonwealth is Hawaii's backyard. I speak as a friend and neighbor when I say that this policy cannot continue. The CNMI system of indentured immigrant labor is morally wrong, and violates basic democratic principles. 
   We hope that our colleagues will hear our voices and will join us in passing S. 1052. 
   I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise to add a bit to my statement. In my statement, I mentioned that Senator MURKOWSKI was the only Senator who went to CNMI. But Senator HARKIN also went to CNMI in August. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I thank Chairman MURKOWSKI, who has done a great job in shepherding and crafting this bill and bringing it to the floor of the Senate. This has been a tough few years because there have been some objections along the way. I think we are doing it correctly. We are taking care of the concern of embarrassment for the United States that would be faced when we pass this bill. This is a bipartisan bill. The chairman has diligently worked, as have staff on both sides of the aisle, well to bring us to this point. I am glad I had a chance to be a part of it and know this is the right thing for our country; that is, for us to pass S. 1052 with its amendments. 
   I thank the Chair and yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I ask unanimous consent to be given 10 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill that will enhance our ability to understand and conserve  coral reef ecosystems and the ocean life that depends on them. 
   In the past few years, Congress and the administration have recognized the importance of coral reefs to ocean ecologies and grown increasingly concerned about the challenges facing our reefs. 1997 was recognized as ``Year of the Reef,'' and the House passed House Concurrent Resolution 8 which recognized the significance of maintaining the health and stability of coral reef ecosystems by promoting stewardship for reefs. In 1998 the President signed Executive Order 13089 establishing the U.S. Coral Reef Task Force under joint leadership of the Department of Commerce and Department of the Interior. The Executive order directs federal agencies to take steps to protect, manage, research and restore coral ecosystems. The bill I am introducing today supplements these actions by establishing a targeted national program for coral reef research, monitoring, and conservation for areas under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior. It is a companion measure to S. 1253, introduced earlier this year by Senator INOUYE, that authorizes a coral reef program through the Department of Commerce. 
   Mr. President, the importance of reefs to our economy, culture, and to the stability of our shorelines is becoming increasingly apparent as we begin to understand more about the interdependence of reefs and human activity. Substantial research shows that reefs are under greater stress than ever before, both from natural causes and human-induced damage. We need to act now before the decline of reefs becomes irreversible. 
   This measure authorizes coral reef research and conservation efforts through the Department of the Interior. The Department manages over 2,000 acres of sensitive coral reef habitat and adjacent submerged land at 20 national wildlife refuges and 9 units of the National Park System in Hawaii, Florida, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the territories of Guam and American Samoa in the Pacific. Of the 4.2 million acres of reefs in the United States, few have been mapped, assessed, or characterized. There is still much to learn about the location and biology of coral reefs, their susceptibility to disease, and how they can be restored and sustained. 
   This measure establishes a coral reef conservation matching grant program that will leverage federal monies with non-federal funds raised through a non-profit foundation. This initiative is consistent with the efforts of the President's Coral Reef Task Force established by Executive Order No. 13089, and with the activities of other agencies, such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, that are involved in coral reef research, monitoring, restoration and conservation. 
   Under my legislation, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to provide grants for coral reef conservation projects in areas under the Department's jurisdiction, through a merit-based, competitive program. Grants will be awarded on a 75 per cent federal and 25 per cent non-federal basis. The Secretary may also enter into an agreement with one or more foundations to solicit private funds dedicated to coral conservation programs. Up to 80 percent of the funding will be distributed equally between the Atlantic/Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean, 
   and 20 percent of the funding can be used for emerging priorities or threats identified by the Secretary in consultation with the Coral Reef Task Force. Grants may be made to any relevant natural resource management authority of a State or territory of the United States, to other government authorities with jurisdiction over coral reefs as well as to educational or non-governmental institutions or organizations with demonstrated expertise in coral reef conservation. Priority will be given to projects that promote reef conservation through cooperative projects with local communities; that involve non-governmental organizations, academic or private institutions or local affected governments; that enhance public knowledge and awareness of coral reef resources; and that promise sound scientific information on the extent, nature and condition of reef ecosystems. 
   Most importantly, this legislation encourages community-based conservation efforts that involve local communities, nongovernmental organizations, and academic institutions in the protection of reefs. It brings people and communities together to participate in, and learn more about, the conservation of ocean resources--coral reefs and the many species that depend on reef ecosystems. Only by making ordinary people responsible for reef conservation, can we alter the types of human activity and behavior that are responsible for the adverse impacts on coral reefs that we glimpse today. 
   Mr. President, the people of Hawaii, our Nation's only insular state, are perhaps more aware of the subtle and interdependent relationship we have with coral reefs. 
   But all citizens should appreciate that the health of coral reefs is emblematic of the health of our oceans--upon which we depend for so many resources, from clean water to food to pharmaceuticals. Coral reefs are the rain forests of the ocean--a wild, beautiful, complex bountiful resource whose importance to life on earth, much less ourselves, is only beginning to be understood. But the harsh reality is that we are going to lose our reefs if we do not act soon, before we fully understand their role in the great web of marine life. 
   There are simply more people on the globe, in more places in the ocean, than ever before. Boats, anchors, snorkelers and divers are entering the water in increasing numbers. We are removing things from the water at an increasing rate--exotic salt water fish for home aquariums and pieces of coral for houses and home decor. The amount of sediment and pollution runoff onto coral reefs increases with every major shoreline development. It is vital that we start now, to research and preserve our reefs, before human impacts cause irreversible damages to a resource whose essential role in nature is only just beginning to be understood. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which represents a critical step in helping us understand and live sustainably with coral reef ecosystems. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of the amendment to raise the minimum wage. 
   My colleagues, the case for an increase in the minimum wage is clear. America has enjoyed eight and one-half years of economic expansion. The economic boom that began in March 1999 is now the longest peacetime expansion in American history. 
   However, the rising tide of economic development has not lifted the boats of millions of American workers. Millions of Americans earning the minimum wage are rapidly becoming a permanent underclass in our society. This amendment is a big step forward for millions who are struggling to feed and raise a family, and rent decent housing, while earning the minimum wage. 
   At the same time that our economy is expanding, the distribution of income is becoming more and more unequal. As the charts prepared by the Senator from Massachusetts make clear, the earnings of average Americans have grown little, and the overall distribution of income has become increasingly unequal. Whether you examine the trend of U.S. income distribution or compare the wages of U.S. workers to those in other industrialized countries, the result is clear: the wages of the average American worker are stagnating. 
   While I thank the Senator from Massachusetts for championing this amendment, I am also grateful that his amendment extends the minimum wage to the only U.S. territory where minimum wage is not governed by Federal law. I am speaking of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
   For my colleagues who are not familiar with this territory, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is located 4,000 miles west of Hawaii. In 1975, the people of the CNMI voted for political union with the United States. Today, the CNMI flies the flag of the United States as a U.S. territory. 
   In 1976, Congress gave U.S. citizenship to residents of the CNMI. At the same time, however, Congress exempted the Commonwealth from the minimum wage provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act. As we now know, that omission was a grave error. Today's amendment will correct that longstanding mistake. 
   The CNMI section of this amendment stands for the simple proposition that America is one country and that the U.S. minimum wage--whatever amount it may be--should be uniform. Common sense dictates that our country must have a single, national law on minimum wage. 
   Throughout the United States, Federal law requires that minimum wage workers be paid $5.15 per hour--everywhere, that is, except the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. In the CNMI, the minimum wage is $3.15 per hour, 40 percent less than the U.S. minimum wage. 
   You would have to go back twenty years, to January 1980, to find a time when the statutory minimum wage was that low in the United States. Today, workers in the CNMI are being paid wages that are 20 years behind the times. And the numbers I have cited do not account for the effect of inflation. 
   Once you adjust the CNMI minimum wage for inflation, you would have to go back to the 1930s--the Depression years--to find a time when the wages of American workers had the same buying power as minimum wage workers in the CNMI today. Adjusted for inflation, the minimum wage in the CNMI--which I remind my colleagues is U.S. soil--is the equivalent of less than ten cents an hour. Ten cents an hour! You can't even buy a pencil for 10 cents. Adjusted for inflation, the minimum wage in this territory is 60 years out of date. 
   This situation is a disgrace. In Guam, ninety miles from the CNMI, they have been paying the minimum wage since 1950. It's time to end this embarrassment and reform the minimum wage in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. That's one of the important things that this amendment would do. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today in opposition to a provision in the Commerce, Justice, State and the Judiciary conference report, which Congress passed a few days ago, and which the President vetoed yesterday. As the ranking member of the Senate Subcommittee on Proliferation, International Security, and Federal Services, with jurisdiction over the census,  I am disappointed the conference report requires that decennial census activities be appropriated by specific program components, known as frameworks. 
   Appropriating by framework for the decennial census has never been done before and would cause serious management problems for Census 2000. According to Census Director Kenneth Prewitt, such a change in funding practices would come at the same time that Census 2000 activities are at their highest. Past congressional direction on the allocation of funds by framework has been in report language, which afforded Congress the ability to guide spending without hamstringing operational management of the census. 
   Director Prewitt noted in a letter to the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Census, ``Congressional approval in the form of a reprogramming would be required for any movement of funds between decennial program components.'' This would necessitate obtaining clearance by the Department of Commerce and the Office of Management and Budget, as well seeking congressional approval. The Senate version of H.R. 2670 did not include this onerous provision, which will seriously impede the Census Bureau from shifting needed funds in a timely manner. ``A decennial census is, by its nature, an unpredictable exercise. Decisions must be made quickly and frequently adjusted to adapt to ever-changing conditions in the field,'' Director Prewitt said. 
   In its budget presentation, the Census Bureau designed eight frameworks for major decennial activities, such as management, field data collection, address listing, automation, Puerto Rico and Island areas. The frameworks have been used as strong guidelines rather than strict appropriation limits because funds may need to be shifted quickly between frameworks to cover unexpected contingencies. Historically, the Census Bureau has been able to move funds among its frameworks--it is inappropriate and damaging for Congress to mandate reprogramming at this time. 
   Any delay in census operations in order to accommodate having to wait for affirmation of a reprogramming request will seriously degrade the quality and completeness of the resulting population count that must be delivered by December 31, 2000. The President vetoed the conference report yesterday, and it is my hope this provision, retained from the House version of the bill, will be deleted. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print Director Prewitt's letter in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business for 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to call attention to a recent announcement by Bill Lann Lee, Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights. The Justice Department announced the conviction of three individuals charged with luring women from China into slavery and forced prostitution in the Northern Mariana Islands. The three pled guilty in Federal district court in Saipan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, regrettably, this is not the first incident of such behavior in the Northern Mariana Islands. As Bill Lann Lee said in announcing the pleas:  
   We have seen too many cases of modern-day slavery.  
   Nor is it the first incident of sexual slavery in the Northern Mariana Islands. Indeed, slavery and prostitution are endemic to the islands' economy. 
   According to the Department of the Interior's latest report on working conditions in the Commonwealth ``many workers are virtually prisoners, confined to their barracks during nonworking hours.'' There are documented reports of Chinese female workers becoming pregnant and who are pressured to have abortions. 
   The grave situation in the Northern Marianas is captured by the headlines in the Department of the Interior's report. Here are a few of them: ``Local Control Over Immigration Has Led to an Unhealthy, Pervasive Reliance Upon Indentured Alien Workers,'' ``The CNMI Garment Industry Has Abused Current Trade Privileges to the Detriment of U.S. Workers,'' ``U.S. Companies and U.S. Taxpayers.'' 
   Another one: ``Worker Exploitation in the Form of Recruitment Fraud,'' ``Payless Paydays & Coerced Abortions, Ineffective Border Control,'' and ``Smuggling of Aliens and Increased Criminal Activity.'' This is not a pleasant picture, and it only gets worse. In another report earlier this year, an undercover investigative team sponsored by the Global Survival Network detailed the sex trade and slavery in these once idyllic Pacific islands. 
   According to their report, ``Trapped: Human Trafficking for Forced Labor in The Commonwealth of The Northern Mariana Islands'':  
   Many of the Chinese women working in clubs with local clientele, for example, said they had come to the CNMI ostensibly to work as waitresses, unaware that they would have to work in a nightclub and/or be forced into sexual slavery. These women had been trafficked into the CNMI specifically for sex work without their knowledge or consent.  
   Given this environment, is it any wonder three people have pled guilty to forcing women into slavery and prostitution? 
   No. The wonder is that more people have not been so found. Hopefully this will change. As the Department of Justice notes, this prosecution was the result of a new effort to increase resources and oversight in the Commonwealth. 
   Fortunately, some American clothing retailers are beginning to react to sweatshop conditions in the Northern Marianas. Just the other day, five major retailers--Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan, Phillips-Van Heusen, Bryland L.P., and The Dress Barn--agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit about this deplorable working environment. The settlement with these businesses follows a similar settlement agreed to last June with Nordstrom, J. Crew, Cutter & Buck, and Gymboree. Hopefully this marks a trend toward ending indentured servitude in the Commonwealth. 
   More needs to be done. The central cause of the slavery and prostitution on this American territory is the lack of any controls on immigration. 
   For my colleagues who may not be familiar with this U.S. territory, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is located 4,000 miles west of Hawaii. In 1975, the people of the CNMI voted for political union with the United States. Today the CNMI is a U.S. territory. 
   A 1976 covenant enacted by Congress gave U.S. citizenship to residents of the CNMI. However, the covenant exempted the Commonwealth from the Immigration and Nationality Act. As we now know, that omission was a grave error. 
   I want my colleagues of the Senate to know that the chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, Mr. MURKOWSKI, and I have introduced legislation to correct fundamental immigration problems in the Commonwealth, such as the ones that led to the convictions obtained by the Justice Department. It was only yesterday, that the Energy Committee approved our CNMI reform bill. I hope that the full Senate will act on our legislation soon. 
   Our bill stands for the simple proposition that America is one country and we must abide by a single, uniform immigration law. Congress must terminate an immigration system that is fundamentally wrong and incorporate the CNMI under Federal immigration law.  
   Common sense dictates that our country must have a single, national immigration system. If Puerto Rico, or Hawaii, or Oregon, or Washington could write their own immigration laws--and grant work visas to foreigners--the U.S. immigration system would be in chaos. That is exactly what is happening in the CNMI. 
   Over the past 20 years, the number of citizens in the Commonwealth doubled. During the same period, however, the population of alien workers exploded by 2,000 percent. Today, the CNMI has twice as many indentured laborers as citizens in its work force. 
   A decade ago, in response to a growing concern about the large number of guest workers employed in the CNMI, the Reagan administration demanded change. Since then, the Bush and Clinton administrations have repeatedly criticized CNMI immigration and demanded reform. 
   The Commonwealth is simply unable to control its borders. One CNMI official testified that they have ``no effective control'' over immigration. 
   The INS reports that the CNMI has no reliable records of aliens entering the Commonwealth, how long they remain, and when, if ever, they depart. 
   A bipartisan commission labeled the Commonwealth's immigration system ``antithetical to American values.'' 
   It is not just the number of workers that prompt concern; alien workers in the CNMI serve as indentured laborers. In a civilized society, indentured servitude, we believe, is immoral. The United States outlawed indenture over a century ago, but it continues today in the CNMI. The Commonwealth is becoming an international embarrassment for the United States. We have received complaints from the Philippines, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh about immigration abuses and mistreatment of workers. Countries around the world watch--and wait--for Congress to act. 
   The CNMI system of indentured immigrant labor violates basic democratic principles. It is time for Congress to enact CNMI immigration reform. 
   Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, this past Sunday, eight rodeo stars were inducted into the Rodeo Hall of Fame at  the National Cowboy Hall of Fame and Western Heritage Center in Oklahoma City. Included among the honorees is one of Hawaii's most legendary paniolos--paniolo is Hawaiian for cowboy--the late Ikua Purdy. Ikua Purdy was born in 1873 at Parker Ranch, one of the largest and most famous ranches in the world, on the Big Island of Hawaii. As a boy he learned to ride and rope, working as a paniolo in the cattle industry, a large and important enterprise in Hawaii at the time. 
   Ikua Purdy secured his place as a rodeo legend for his exploits in 1908 at the World Championship Rodeo in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Purdy, along with Eben ``Rawhide Ben'' Parker Low, Jack Low, and Archie Ka`aua traveled from the Big Island to Cheyenne and borrowed horses to compete in the world roping championship. This was their first competition outside of Hawaii. At the conclusion of the two-day competition, Jack Low placed sixth, Archie Ka`aua finished third, and Ikua Purdy won the won roping championship with a record time of 56 seconds--an amazing time that is all the more incredible since it came after an arduous 3,300-mile trek and accomplished with a borrowed horse. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19991021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Ikua Purdy went home to Hawaii and resumed his work as a paniolo until his death in 1945. He did not return to the mainland to defend his title, in fact he never left Hawaii's shores again. But his victory and legend live on in Hawaii and the annals of rodeo history. His achievements are immortalized in song and hula in Hawaii, including ``Hawaiian Rough Riders'' and ``Waiomina.'' 
   Yet, during his lifetime, Ikua Purdy avoided drawing attention to his roping mastery and world record performance. I am pleased to join Ikua Purdy's family and friends in honoring the legacy and talent of one of Hawaii's and America's greatest cowboys. This weekend's well-deserved induction into the Rodeo Hall of Fame enshrines a sporting feat that continues to amaze rodeo fans and highlights the long, proud history of Hawaii's paniolos. 
   This well-deserved honor for a paniolo whose talents were matched only by his humility and quiet dignity follows on the heels of renewed interest and appreciation of Hawaii's illustrious paniolo traditions. 
   The Hawaiian cowboy played an important role in the economic and cultural development of Hawaii and helped to establish the islands as a major cattle exporter to California, the Americas, and the Pacific Rim for over a century. Paniolo history is frequently overlooked in Hawaii and is largely unknown beyond our shores. Yet, this is an important part of Hawaii's history and of American history. Indeed, Hawaii's working cowboys preceded the emergence of their compatriots in the American West. 
   Paniolo came from Spain, Portugal, Mexico, California, and throughout South America to work Hawaii's ranches. They brought their languages and culture, including the guitar and ukulele. As they shared their culture, married and raised families, they embraced the Native Hawaiian culture and customs. In many ways, this sharing and blending of cultures is the foundation for the diverse and rich heritage the people of Hawaii enjoy today. 
   The paniolo experience is part of the distinct historical narrative of our nation's history. It illustrates how differences have developed into shared values and community. By illuminating the many currents and branches of our history and society, we acquire a better understanding and appreciation of our national landscape. 
   The rediscovery of paniolo history was further encouraged when Governor Ben Cayetano declared 1998 the ``Year of the Paniolo'' in Hawaii. An excellent documentary film by Edgy Lee, ``Paniolo O Hawaii--Cowboys of the Far West,'' that premiered at the Smithsonian captures the essence of the Hawaiian cowboy and highlights the economic and cultural significance of the paniolo in the islands. I encourage all students and enthusiasts of the American West and cowboy lore to learn about the Hawaiian paniolo.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, the boys of summer rarely disappoint us, and last night's final game of the National League playoffs once again confirmed that baseball is truly America's pastime. The series captivated television audiences as the Mets and Braves went head to head in extra innings in their last two games: Sunday's game was the longest in playoff history--lasting more than five hours, and last night's game was not decided until the bottom of the 11th--just past midnight. 
   I want to single out Hawaii's own, Benny Agbayani, the star New York outfielder, who proudly wears number 50 for the 50th state. Benny had an illustrious playoff season and proved he is an invaluable addition to the Mets starting lineup. After playing in Triple A since 1993, the Hawaii outfielder was called up by the Mets in early May to replace the injured Bobby Bonilla. He secured his slot by batting .400 and hitting 10 home runs by mid-June. The former St. Louis School and Hawaii  Pacific University all-state athlete has made Hawaii proud and has captured the nation's attention with his strength at bat, agility on the field, and grace in waiting for his place in baseball history. 
   My aloha to Benny, his recent bride Niela, and their families.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Senate giving its advice and consent to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). 
   Debate on the CTBT has unfortunately become politicized. It should not be. The series of hearings held in the Armed Services Committee and the Foreign Relations Committee were fair and serious. I was impressed by the intelligent discussion and debate. But I wish that we had heard more. As Senator HAGEL indicated in his statement on the floor, we should not be compressing debate on this issue. We should hold more extensive hearings. 
   This treaty is about the future. It is about making a world more secure from the threat of nuclear war. This issue is too important, too important for the Senate of the United States not to have held hearing after hearing on all aspects of the treaty. Such hearings would, in my view, have better clarified all the benefits of the Treaty. 
   I have supported the treaty, I continue to support the treaty, and I will vote for the treaty, not because it is perfect--the CTBT does not mean an end to the threat of nuclear war or nuclear terrorism or nuclear proliferation, but it does represent a step in the right direction of containing these threats. 
   Let us be clear on what not ratifying the CTBT means: 
   A vote against the CTBT is a vote for the resumption of nuclear testing by the United States. 
   A resumption of nuclear testing is the clear consequence of the criticism by opponents of the CTBT that the stockpile Stewardship Program is not sufficient to guarantee the safety, reliability and performance of the nation's nuclear weapon stockpile. 
   Critics of the Stockpile Stewardship Program argue that only actual testing can preserve our nuclear deterrence. Indeed at least one witness testifying before the Armed Services Committee advocated a resumption of 10 kiloton testing. That means testing a weapon almost the size of what was dropped on Hiroshima. 
   I do not believe that the American public wants to see the resumed testing of Hiroshima-sized nuclear weapons. 
   Nor do I believe such testing is necessary, not as long as America persists in investing sufficient resources in the Stockpile Stewardship Program. 
   Yes, there are uncertainties about the ability of the Stewardship Program over time to be successful. As the Director of Los Alamos National Laboratory, John Browne, has testified, ``the average age of the nuclear stockpile is older than at any time in history, and nuclear weapons involve materials and technologies found nowhere else on earth.'' And as his colleague at the Lawrence Livermore laboratories, Bruce Tarter, stated, ``the pace of progress must be quickened. Much remains to be accomplished, and the clock is running.'' 
   Indeed, the United States has no alternative to the Stockpile Stewardship Program unless we want to return to the level of nuclear testing that we saw prior to President Bush ordering a moratorium on testing in 1992. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. The United States needs to train people, design equipment, and to invent new techniques if it is going to preserve the safety and reliability of its nuclear deterrent. The Stockpile Stewardship Program can accomplish all of these objectives. 
   The Stockpile Stewardship Program has had problems but it has made great progress. As Director Tarter noted, it has opened up new possibilities for weapons science not even contemplated a few years ago. 
   This is the future: one of science, not one of testing. 
   As a strong advocate of National Missile Defense, I have been struck by how some are willing to have such extraordinary confidence in the ability of American scientist and engineers to overcome problems in missile defense but do not seem to place the same confidence in the ability of American scientists and engineers to do the same with stockpile stewardship. 
   Choosing the path of science does not mean the United States cannot test if science proves inadequate to practice. The assurances contained in the President's six safeguards attached to this treaty mean that, if necessary, we can resume testing. I have full confidence in this President or any future President being willing to take this extraordinary step, and I have full confidence that this or any future Congress will back that President up should such a decision to return to testing be necessary. 
   Supporting the CTBT does not preclude America from taking whatever steps are necessary to preserve our national security. 
   I would argue, as have many of my colleagues, and interestingly enough, many of our allies, that ratification of the treaty helps preserve American security by locking in our nuclear superiority and limiting the abilities of other nations to match our nuclear capability. Our allies, who benefit from the security of the American nuclear umbrella, want the CTBT because they know it enhances, not detracts, from their security. 
   Yes, it is true that the treaty will not prevent proliferation absolutely. A country does not need to conduct nuclear tests to have a nuclear capability. But will it have a reliable weapons system? I do not think so. 
   Yes, it is true that the CTBT will not prevent a country from trying to hide small scale nuclear tests. But I believe that the international monitoring system which will be in place as well as the United States' own national technical means will be so extensive that any test will be detected. That country will then be subject to an international inspection. Some suggest that the United States will not be able to gain a consensus for such an inspection. I do not see why not: it will be in the interest of all signatories to ensure that no countries violate the agreement. I cannot envision a majority of states not agreeing to an inspection of a suspected nuclear test. 
   I do not know if the CTBT will create a new international norm discouraging nuclear weapons development. I do know that the CTBT will make such development technically more difficult to do and politically more difficult to deny. 
   Let me conclude by asking this simple question: do my colleagues who oppose the CTBT want our country to resume nuclear testing? 
   If not, then I suggest that the only course is to invest in the Stockpile Stewardship Program. I say, give  American science a chance. Invest in the future of weapons science, not in the past of weapons testing by ratifying the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I introduced S. 1694, the Hawaii Water Resources Reclamation Act of 1999. Senator INOUYE joins me in sponsoring this legislation. 
   My colleagues, rural Hawaii faces difficult economic times. The past decade has been especially challenging for agriculture in our state. Sugar has declined dramatically, from 180,000 acres of cane in 1989 to 60,000 acres today, and with this decline has come tremendous economic disruption. 
   120,000 acres may not seem like much to Senators from large states of the continental U.S., but in Hawaii the loss has huge implications. 120,000 acres represents more than 45 percent of our cultivated farm land. Hawaii County, where the greatest impact of these losses is felt, faces double digit unemployment. 
   As Carol Wilcox, author of the definitive history of irrigation in Hawaii noted in her recent book ``Sugar Water,'' the cultivation of sugarcane dominated Hawaii's agricultural landscape for the last 25 years of the 19th century and for most of this century as well. ``Sugar was the greatest single force at work in Hawaii,'' she wrote, and water was essential to this development. 
   The face of Hawaii agriculture is changing. During the past decade, 95 sugar farms and plantations closed their doors. Today, many rural communities in Hawaii are struggling to define new roles in an era when sugar is no longer the king of crops. We have entered a period of rebirth. A new foundation for agriculture is being established. 
   Diversified agriculture has become a bright spot in our economy. Farm receipts from diversified crops rose an average of 5.5 percent annually for the past three years, surpassing the $300 million mark for the first time. Hawaii still grows sugarcane, but diversified farming represents the future of Hawaii agriculture. 
   The restructuring of agriculture has prompted new and shifting demands for agricultural water and a broad reevaluation of the use of Hawaii's fresh water resources. The outcome of these events will help define the economic future of rural Hawaii. 
   While the Bureau of Reclamation played a modest role in Hawaii water resource development, sugar plantations and private irrigation companies were responsible for constructing, operating, and maintaining nearly all of Hawaii's agricultural irrigation systems. Over a period of 90 years, beginning in 1856, more than 75 ditches, reservoirs, and groundwater systems were constructed. 
   Although Hawaii's irrigation systems are called ditches, the use of this term misrepresents their magnitude. Hawaii's largest ditch system, the East Maui Irrigation Company, operates a network of six ditches on the north flank of Haleakala Crater. The broad scope of East Maui irrigation is extensively chronicled in ``Sugar Water'':  
   Among the water entities, none compares to EMI. It is the largest privately owned water company in the United States, perhaps in the world. The total delivery capacity is 445 mgd. The average daily water delivery under median weather conditions is 160 mgd ..... Its largest ditch, the Wailoa Canal, has a greater median flow (170 mgd) than any river in Hawaii ..... The [EMI] replacement cost is estimated to be at $200 million.  
   Most of Hawaii's irrigation systems--ditches as we know them--are in disrepair. Some have been abandoned. Those that no longer irrigate cane lands may not effectively serve the new generation of Hawaii farmers, either because little or no water reaches new farms or because the ditches have not been repaired or maintained. Thus, the wheel has turned full circle: the challenge that confronted six generations of cane farmers, access to water, has become the challenge for a new generation that farms diversified agriculture. 
   In response to these changing events, the Hawaii Water Resources Reclamation Act authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation to survey irrigation and water delivery systems in Hawaii, identify the cost of rehabilitating the systems, and evaluate demand for their future use. The bill also instructs the Bureau to identify new opportunities for reclamation and reuse of water and wastewater for agriculture and non-agricultural purposes. Finally, the bill authorizes the Bureau to conduct emergency drought relief in Hawaii. This is especially important for struggling farmers on the Big Island. 
   While I hesitate to predict the findings of the Bureau's study, I expect we will learn that some of the ditch systems should be repaired or improved, while others should be abandoned. We may also learn that the changing face of Hawaii agriculture justifies entirely new systems or new components being added to existing ditches. Because the bill emphasizes water recycling and reuse, the report will identify opportunities to improve water conservation, enhance stream flows, improve fish and  wildlife habitat, and rebuilding groundwater supplies. These important objectives will help ensure that any legislative response to the Bureau's report is ecologically appropriate. 
   The process outlined in S. 1694 cannot advance unless sound environmental principles are observed. Those who are for Hawaii's rivers and streams, as I do, believe that water resource development should not adversely affect fresh water resources and the ecosystems that depend upon them. Hawaii's rivers support a number of rare native species that rely on undisturbed habitat. Perhaps the most remarkable of these is the goby, which actually climbs waterfalls, reaching habitat that is inaccessible to other fish. As a young boy, my friends and I caught and ate o'opu, as the goby are known to Hawaiians, at Oahu's streams. I am determined to preserve this, and the other forms of rich biological heritage that inhabit our streams and watersheds. 
   My remarks would not be complete without a review of the history of Federal reclamation initiatives in Hawaii. Hawaii's relationship with the Bureau of Reclamation dates from 1939, when the agency proposed developing an aqueduct on Molokai to serve 16,000 acres of federally managed Hawaiian Home Lands. While this project did not proceed, in 1954 Congress directed the Bureau to investigate irrigation and reclamation needs for three of our islands: Oahu, Hawaii, and Molokai. A Federal reclamation project on the Island of Molokai was eventually constructed in response to this investigation. The project continues in operation today. 
   In the first session of Congress following Hawaii's statehood, legislation authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to develop reclamation projects in Hawaii under the Small Reclamation Projects Act was signed into law. The most recent interaction with the Bureau occurred in 1995 when Congress authorized the Secretary to allow Native Hawaiians the same favorable cost recovery for reclamation projects as Indians or Indian tribes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to rise in support of S. 82, the Air Transportation Improvement Act of 1999. This measure will enhance the safety and efficiency of our air transportation system. The residents of Hawaii, a State that is perhaps more dependent on air transportation than any other, stand to benefit significantly from this legislation. 
   Today I want to speak to title VI of the bill which addresses the issue of air tour operations at national parks. Title VI establishes a comprehensive regulatory framework for controlling air tour traffic in and near units of the National Park System. The legislation requires the Federal Aviation Administration, in cooperation with the National Park Service and with public input from stakeholders, to develop an air tour management plan for parks currently or potentially affected by air tour flights. 
   Under this process, routes, altitudes, time restrictions, limitations on the number of flights, and other operating parameters could be prescribed in order to protect sensitive park resources as well as to enhance the safety of air tour operations. An air tour plan could prohibit air tours at a park entirely, regulate air tours within half a mile outside the boundaries of a park, regulate air tour operations that impact tribal lands, and offer incentives for the adoption of quieter air technology. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19991001</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for the time and also my chairman from Alaska, Senator MURKOWSKI, for permitting me to speak during this time. 
   I rise to address an issue of critical importance to our national security: containing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by North Korea. As ranking member of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services, I see this as one of the most pressing security issues facing America. The Clinton administration has been working hard at containing and countering this threat, holding important discussions with the North Koreans, most recently in Berlin. Last Friday, a North Korean spokesman stated that North Korea would ``not launch a missile while the talks are underway with a view to creating an atmosphere more favorable for the talks'' with the United States. 
   This, I believe, is a very positive step. North Korea's development and August 1998 testing of a long-range missile drew America's attention to this emerging threat to our national security. Even more directly, it raised concerns about Hawaii's security. Following this test, the North Koreans began preparing to launch a second missile, which our intelligence analysts believe could deliver a several-hundred kilogram payload to Hawaii and to Alaska. North Korean preparations to test launch a much larger missile prompted the administration to take multilateral efforts to persuade the North Koreans not to launch and to restrict their missile development. 
   Following negotiations in Berlin between the United States and the North Koreans last week, the President announced his decision to ease some sanctions against North Korea administered under the Trading with the Enemy Act, the Defense Production Act, and the Department of Commerce's Export Administration regulations. So far these efforts have been partially successful, and the North Koreans have agreed to a moratorium on missile launches during this series of talks with the United States. The administration is to be congratulated for the intensity with which it has pursued a solution to this dangerous problem. 
   There has been some criticism of the administration's approach, with a few critics arguing that the administration is rewarding bad behavior or giving in to extortion demands. I do not believe this is the case. The formal announcement by the North Korean Government stating there would be no missile tests while talks are underway with the United States is a clear indication that North Koreans have accepted the new approach in relations outlined by Secretary Perry. There is no doubt that the North Koreans have an active missile export program which is dependent upon imports of foreign technology and exports of cruise missiles. 
   Therefore, it is in our national security interest to limit North Korean missile development and especially North Korean missile exports toward which the Berlin agreement takes a firm step. By lifting some economic sanctions, holding out the possibility of lifting additional sanctions, and suggesting to the North Koreans that the United States is willing to normalize relations with North Korea, the North Koreans have been given a powerful incentive towards agreeing to a permanent moratorium on missile development. Reimposing sanctions would send such a strong signal of distrust with North Korean actions that it could well set back North Korean efforts to achieve 
   international respectability to lower levels than those today. 
   This is not a sanctions relief for moratorium deal. It leads, instead, to a  normalization of relations for a reduction in threat. Normalization is predicated upon North Korean willingness to change their behavior in terms of terrorism, drug dealing, and proliferation, including a verifiable end to their nuclear warhead and missile programs. We are not looking at an immediate end to the hostile atmosphere that has worsened tensions on the Korean peninsula. We must determine what our long-term objectives are on the Korean peninsula. If our ultimate goal is the peaceful unification of the Koreas as one democratic state, we need to assess more effectively how our current strategy will lead us in that direction. 
   I look forward to the administration's elaborating its next steps towards North Korea. So far, the administration has worked hard and well at containing tensions on the peninsula. It is not a success which must come easily, given the difficulty of dealing with the North Koreans. More hard work and the support of Congress will be needed to make a lasting peace possible. 
   I yield the floor and thank the Senator from Alaska for granting me this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I yield my 1 hour of debate to Senator BYRD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I take the floor to commend my friends, the chairman and the ranking member, for their efforts in coming forward with a bill that provides valuable funding for veterans and key housing programs. 
   However, I urge my colleagues to provide additional funding for section 8 vouchers. We have talked a lot about this. In my State of Hawaii, there is a 20-month wait for public housing and a 44-month wait for section 8 vouchers. Without additional funding for these programs, Hawaii's residents will only see an increase in the waiting period for public housing and section 8 vouchers. We must ensure that adequate funding is provided for these important programs which benefit so many people. 
   Lastly, I wish to also urge my colleagues to revisit the Community Builders Program and provide HUD with the ability to continue this valuable program. In my State, this program has provided a valuable service for Hawaii's low-income families. 
   Once again, I commend the chairman and ranking member for making very tough decisions in crafting this legislation. I know it was not easy, and I am pleased the committee sought additional funding for our Nation's veterans' health care system. But I hope we also understand the need for affordable housing, and I urge the committee to revisit this issue in conference. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to add my voice to others who are calling for increases in education funding. Our investment in the education of future generations that will someday run this country cannot be undervalued. We must ensure the best education for our young people. However, this will not happen if we undermine education as a priority by cutting funding for schools, classrooms, and students. This funding would be deeply reduced for years to come without a veto of the tax bill, as President Clinton has promised. In addition, we may see reductions in fiscal year 2000 funding if we do not give greater emphasis to education as a priority in the current appropriations process. 
   This is the challenge before us today. Education's share of the Federal budget has declined, and it did not start out at a significant percentage to begin with. Education makes up 2 percent of the fiscal year 1999 budget. Compare this 2 percent with about 15 percent for defense, 22 percent for Social Security, 11 percent for Medicare, and 13 percent for interest on the debt. These numbers are reported by the Committee for Education Funding. 
   In addition, the Federal share of education funding has declined, falling from 14 percent for elementary and secondary programs in fiscal 1980 to 6 percent in fiscal year 1998. For higher education, the Federal share fell from 18 percent to 12 percent from 1980 to 1998. Because Federal dollars leverage more support for education from other sectors of the economy, we cannot allow the Federal share to dwindle. 
   We can scarce afford to continue this way and shrink the education dollar if we look at what lies ahead. According to the recent Baby Boom Echo Report from the U.S. Department of Education, total public and private school enrollment in this country has risen to a record 53 million students. Furthermore, between 1989 and 2009, elementary school enrollment will have increased by 5 million children, secondary enrollment by almost 4 million students, and college by 3 million students. 
   The report lists Hawaii among the top 15 states in enrollment growth. For public elementary and secondary enrollment, in a decade, Hawaii will have 26,000 more students in its schools, reaching 227,000 students. This means 13 percent more students will be in Hawaii's classrooms in 2009 than are there today. Many States are facing similar projections, and there seems to be no end in sight to this growth. 
   There will be tremendous repercussions from this Baby Boom Echo. One example is in the need for school construction and modernization. Mr. President, in Hawaii, about three in every four schools need to upgrade or repair buildings to good overall condition. More than half of schools report  at least one inadequate building feature, whether the roof is leaking, plumbing is not functioning well, or windows are inadequate. In addition, four out of five schools report at least one unsatisfactory environmental factor, such as air quality, ventilation, or lighting. We will need to attend to some or all of these conditions soon as Hawaii continues to feel the impact of increasing enrollments. 
   Over the next decade, the Hawaii Department of Education estimates that it will need $1.5 billion for capital improvements. This will include 15 new elementary schools, 2 new intermediate schools, and 2 new high schools. The figure also accounts for 400 new permanent classrooms and $120 million for building replacement. 
   In addition, class size will need to be reduced before learning is stifled altogether--this will be had to do with more students in schools. Hawaii's average class size is already in the mid-20s, while the recommended size is 18. These are only a few examples of the need in our public schools that will be heightened by rising enrollments. 
   It is easy to see shy I cannot condone the education cuts that would result if the tax bill became law. I am not opposed to tax cuts, but committing $792 billion to tax cuts at this time would lead to serious neglect of this country's greater priorities. In an era of budget surplus, we would have to hang our heads in shame for using funds for tax breaks when problems loom large: Social Security and Medicare need to be made solvent for future decades; the amount we are putting toward interest on the debt must be reduced; and our domestic priorities, including education, most be boosted. 
   However, the majority's tax plan calls for about 50-percent cuts in nondefense discretionary programs. For education, this means: 6 million children denied extra academic support under Title I funds for the disadvantaged, including 25,000 students in Hawaii; almost 800,000 students denied a Pell grant, including 2,000 in Hawaii; and nearly $3 billion less in IDEA funding to States, including $9 million intended for special education in Hawaii. The tax bill would mean a giant step backward for education. 
   Now, it appears that the majority is going after education funding for the next fiscal year. It is bad enough that the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill is often left for last, which means that it picks up ``leftovers'' after other appropriations bills have been taken care of. This is how we treat a bill that contains programs for the most vulnerable Americans. 
   We are currently tangling with an even bigger problem with this bill caused by low allocations for the Labor-HHS bill--something which could have been avoided in this era of surplus. In their zeal to keep the budget surplus sacred for tax cuts, my colleagues in the majority capped the Labor-HHS bill at $73.6 billion. This would translate into a 17-percent cut in overall education funding. 
   We know that this 17-percent cut will be felt by State and local education agencies, school districts, schools, and classrooms. Its impacts will go directly to our children. The Safe and Drug Free Schools Program will be cut almost $80 million from current funding, which means a cut of more than $375,000 from programs in Hawaii's school- and community-based drug education and prevention activities. Looking at title I for the disadvantaged once again, Hawaii would lose more than $3 million. Hawaii's schools cannot afford this loss in funding. There are additional cuts I could list. The bottom line is that it would be a travesty to see this Congress ravage education funding. 
   Mr. President, I stand here not only as a Senator representing the people of Hawaii. I stand here as a former teacher, vice principal, principal, and administrator in Hawaii's school system. I remember what it is like to be at the front of a classroom with young faces and bright eyes eager to learn and looking for guidance. I listened to parents' concerns at PTA meetings. I talked to individual students about a poor academic record, spotty school attendance, or disruptive behavior that made it difficult for others in the class to learn. I remember what it was like being on the front lines of education. 
   I cannot see any good for the future of our country coming out of these large education cuts. We bemoan problems facing our schools today such as unexpected and shocking incidents of violence. Let us put muscle behind our rhetoric and treat education as a priority by preventing this 17-percent cut. 
   I ask my colleagues to join me in restoring education as a priority and calling for increases, not huge decreases, in the investment in our country's future. I thank my colleagues for this opportunity to speak on an issue that is near and dear to my heart, and I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to be recorded as voting ``nay'' on yesterday's rollcall vote No. 274 related to the germaneness of a provision in the Shelby substitute amendment to H.R. 2084, the fiscal year 2000 Transportation appropriations bill. This will not change the outcome of the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President yesterday, this body unanimously adopted the Helms amendment to H.R. 2084, the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The Helms amendment expresses the sense  of the Senate that the United States Census bureau should include marital status on the short form census questionnaire to be distributed to the majority of American households for the 2000 decennial census. The marital status question currently appears only on the long form which will be distributed to one out of every six households, rather than to all households as the short form is distributed. 
   I agree with the importance of collecting information about marital status, and I know that by using modern statistical methods and the information obtained from the question on the long form, we will know how many Americans are married. Although I supported the amendment, I offer some explanation about the amendment, on behalf of the Census Bureau, about why the marital status question was moved to the long form rather than left on the short form. I would also like to respond to my colleague from North Carolina, who said that the U.S. Census Bureau ``obviously no longer regards marriage as having any importance.'' This attitude should not be ascribed to the actions of the Census Bureau. This was hardly a frivolous decision. Rather, an explanation can be found in the agency's efforts to comply with Congressional mandates on the decennial census questionnaires. 
   In one of its many mandates imposed on the Census Bureau about conducting the 2000 census, Congress directed the agency to reduce the number of questions asked on decennial questionnaires. In response, the Census Bureau performed a review of each question on both the long form and the short form. From this review, the agency eliminated questions for which it found no statutory or legal requirement, including the marital status question. A major reason for excluding certain questions from the short form is that the short form must be processed immediately to provide timely information to States for redistricting purposes. In accordance, the questions not needed for redistricting purposes were eliminated from the short form and some were shifted to the long form. Some questions were eliminated altogether, for the sake of brevity. Marital status was determined as not necessary for State redistricting purposes, not because the Census Bureau regarded marriage as unimportant, and therefore was shifted to the long form. 
   Following the question review and elimination, the Census Bureau complied once again with long-standing Congressional mandate and provided the proposed questionnaire two years in advance of the decennial census. This submission was made on March 31, 1998, to the Governmental Affairs Committee and Majority Leader in the Senate, and the Subcommittee on the Census and Speaker in the other body. After this submission, the agency accepted and considered various concerns about the content of the form. The Census Bureau reports that no comments regarding content of the marital category were received. The Census Bureau then finalized the questionnaire content. 
   At present, 246 million of the 462 million forms for the 2000 decennial census have been printed. Redesigning and reprinting this quantity of questionnaires would be extremely costly and lead to deleterious delays. We are already within seven months of the questionnaire mail-out date. In addition, the FY 2000 Commerce-Justice-State Appropriations Bill that funds the Census Bureau has not yet passed, and the version of the bill produced by this body does not provide the full $4.6 billion request--our figure is $1.7 billion short. Therefore, even if the forms were reprinted, the Census Bureau would not have adequate funds to mail the forms. 
   Mr. President, the Census Bureau needs much more support than we are giving it if we expect a fair and accurate 2000 census. I feel that amendment #1658 provides us with a perfect opportunity to call on conferees on the Commerce-Justice-State Appropriations Bill to provide full funding for the 2000 census. I appreciate the opportunity to speak on this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 53, a sense of Congress resolution relating to the recent allegations of espionage and illegal campaign financing that have brought into question the loyalty of individuals of Asian Pacific ancestry. 
   Mr. President, I am concerned about the negative impact that the recent investigation of Wen Ho Lee, a scientist at Los Alamos, New Mexico, is having on the Chinese American community. Certain recent media coverage of this investigation has chosen to portray Chinese and Chinese Americans with a broad brush, using loaded words that are offensive and implying that certain people should be treated with suspicion solely because of their ethnicity or national origin. Cartoons exaggerate and poke fun at physical appearances of individuals by depicting slanted eyes and buck teeth. 
   In one particularly offensive example, a recent editorial in a Santa Fe, New Mexico, newspaper made fun of Asian accents, unnecessarily referred to the ``Fu Manchu'' character, and tried to link the allegations of stolen nuclear secrets and the bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. 
   Mr. President, Asian Pacific Americans are an important part of our body politic. They have made significant contributions to politics, business, industry, science, sports, education, and the arts. Men and women like the late Senator Sparky Matsunaga, Olympic Champion Kristi Yamaguchi, Architect I.M. Pei, Maxine Hong Kingston, Ellison Onizuka, and many others have enhanced and invigorated the life of this nation. 
   Asian Americans have played a fundamental part in making this country what it is today. Asian immigrants helped build the great transcontinental railroads of the 19th century. They labored on the sugar plantations of Hawaii, on the vegetable and fruit farms of California, and in the gold mines of the West. They were at the forefront of the agricultural labor movement, especially in the sugarcane and grape fields, and were instrumental in developing the fishing and salmon canning industries of the Pacific Northwest. They were importers, merchants, grocers, clerks, tailors, and gardeners. They manned the assembly lines during America's Industrial Revolution. They opened laundries, restaurants, and vegetable markets. They also served our nation in war: the famed all-Nisei 100th/442nd combat team of World War II remains the most decorated unit in U.S. military history.  
   Despite their contributions, Asian immigrants and Asian Pacific Americans suffered social prejudice and economic, political, and institutional discrimination. They were excluded from churches, barber shops, and restaurants. They were forced to sit in the balconies of movie theaters and the back seats of buses. They attended segregated schools. They were even denied burial in white cemeteries; in one instance, a decorated Asian American soldier killed in action was refused burial in his hometown cemetery. Rather than receive equal treatment, Asians and Pacific Islanders were historically paid lower wages than their white counterparts, relegated to menial jobs, or forced to turn to businesses and industries in which competition with whites was minimized. 
   For more than 160 years, Asians were also denied citizenship by a law that prevented them from naturalizing, a law that remained in effect until 1952. Without citizenship, Asians could not vote, and thus could not seek remedies through the Tammany Halls or other political organizations like other immigrant groups. The legacy of this injustice is seen today in the relative lack of political influence and representation of Asian Americans at every level and in every branch of government. 
   Mr. President, as a member of the Energy Committee and governmental Affairs Committee, where I am Ranking Member on the International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services Subcommittee, I have expressed my concern about the unfair and unwarranted negative impact this issue is having on the image of the Asian Pacific American community. We need to move quickly beyond the search for ethnic scapegoats. This is the lesson of the recent concern over national security leaks. We should not overreact. 
   Mr. President, I applaud President Clinton's executive order of June 7, 1999, to establish a commission to study and suggest ways to improve the quality of life for Asian Pacific Americans. President Clinton rightfully stated that many Asian Pacific Americans are underserved by federal programs. The order outlines steps to ensure that federal programs, especially those that gather data on health and social services, are responsible to Asian Pacific Americans needs. It's a step in the right direction and it may focus on some of the more compelling issues involving Asian Pacific Americans in terms of improving the quality of their lives.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as Ranking Member of the Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services, I wish to call attention to an important briefing given to Senate staff just prior to the August recess by Administration officials from the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Census Bureau on the new Automated Export System (AES). 
   The AES is a joint venture between the U.S. Customs Service and the Foreign Trade Division of the U.S. Census Bureau. AES provides for the electronic filing of the Shipper's Export Declaration (SED) and electronic filing of the outbound manifest. AES is an information gateway designed to ensure compliance with and enforcement of laws relating to exporting. It will improve the collection of trade statistics and improve customer service. Its goal is a paperless reporting of export information by the year 2002. 
   I believe the AES will become the centerpiece of efforts to improve the effectiveness of the United States' export control program. 
   Last June Senator THOMPSON, Chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, held very important hearings on the findings and recommendations of reports issued by the Inspectors General from six U.S. agencies involved in the export control process: namely, the Departments of Commerce, Defense, Energy, State, Treasury (U.S. Customs), and the Central Intelligence Agency. One of the critical recommendations made by several of the Inspectors General was that licensing officials should perform ``cumulative effect analysis'' of proposed export transactions. The primary tool for this analysis will be information gathered in the AES. 
   Furthermore, the recent report from the Commission to Assess the Organization of the Federal Government to Combat the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, chaired by former CIA Director John Deutch, entitled ``Combating Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction,'' also highlighted the AES program as a central tool for improving the overall performance of our export control program. The Deutch Report observed that the AES could be used as a tool to identify trends in shipments of otherwise non-strategic items that might be used by rogue nations pursuing the development of weapons of mass destruction. 
   Based upon the Deutch Commission's recommendation, Senator SPECTER introduced a bill, S. 1372, entitled ``Proliferation Prevention Enhancement Act of 1999.'' This bill mandates that U.S. companies electronically files Shipper's Export Declarations (SEDs) through AES for exports of items that are on the U.S. Munitions List of the Commerce Control List. I commend my colleague for his efforts to improve the overall effectiveness of our export control program which is so essential to preserving our nation's security. I am a cosponsor of this legislation and urge its support. Our continued oversight of exports of dual-use and munitions list items will help ensure that exports do not go awry to rogue nations or individuals. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator JEFFORDS in introducing a bill that would permanently authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs Home Loan Guaranty Program for members of the Selected Reserve. 
   As the proud author of the original legislation enacted in 1992 to extend eligibility for the VA Home Loan Guaranty Program to National Guard and Reserve members, I am pleased with the results of the program. Tens of thousands of dedicated reservists who served for at least six years, and continue to serve or have received an honorable discharge, have been able to fulfill the dream of home ownership through this program. The participation of Guard and Reserve members not only benefits these service members, but also stabilizes the financial viability of the program since this group has had a lower default rate than most other program participants. 
   In anticipation of the October 1999 expiration of the eligibility of reservists for VA-guaranteed home loans, I introduced legislation last year to permanently authorize the VA Home Loan Guaranty Program for members of the Selected Reserve. With bipartisan support in the House and Senate, a revised version of my legislation was enacted into law. While I am pleased that the eligibility of reservists for veterans housing loans was extended September 2003, I believe that permanent authority should be provided to members of the Selected Reserve. 
   Since the end of the cold war, we have reassessed the role, size, and structure of our Armed Forces. Recognizing the changes in our national military strategy prompted by a new global environment and appreciating the need to address our nation's budget deficit, we have significantly downsized our active duty military forces. As a result, the National Guard and Reserve have played a more prominent role in the Total Force. Reservists are being increasingly called upon to protect and promote our national security interests in regions throughout the world. Most recently, reservists have been serving alongside active duty forces in the Balkans to support NATO air operations over Kosovo. By making permanent the eligibility of members of the Selected Reserve for the VA Home Loan Guaranty Program, we would specifically recognize their vital service to our country and ensure that veterans housing loans will continue to be available to them beyond the near future. 
   The VA guaranty program is also an important component of a benefits package which makes Guard and Reserve service more attractive to qualified individuals. This is of particular importance during a time when the civilian sector is competing for the same pool of limited applicants, as well as when our military needs are becoming increasingly technical, demanding only the most intelligent, motivated, and competent individuals. Currently, the VA Home Loan Guaranty Program cannot be used as a recruitment tool since the authority expires in four years and reservists are required to serve for at least six years before they qualify for VA-guaranteed loans. A permanent authorization will assist the National Guard and Reserve with their recruitment efforts by allowing veterans housing loans to be offered as an incentive. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I urge my colleagues to support this measure which would recognize the vital contributions of National Guard and Reserve members to our country, as well as ensure that veterans housing loans will continue to be available in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Pet Safety and Protection Act of 1999, a bill to close a serious loophole in the Animal Welfare Act. Senators KENNEDY, DURBIN, INOUYE and LEBIN are cosponsors of the legislation. 
   Congress passed the Animal Welfare Act over 30 years ago to stop the mistreatment of animals and to prevent the unintentional sale of family pets for laboratory experiments. Despite the Animal Welfare Act's well-meaning intentions and the enforcement efforts of the Department of Agriculture, the Act routinely fails to provide pets and pet owners with reliable protection against the actions of some unethical dealers. 
   Medical research is an invaluable weapon in the battle against disease. New drugs and surgical techniques offer promise in the fight against AIDS, cancer, and a host of life-threatening diseases. Animal research has been, and continues to be, fundamental to advancements in medicine. I am not here to argue whether animals should or should not be used in research. Rather, I am concerned with the sale of stolen pets and stray animals to research facilities. 
   These are less than 40 ``random source'' animal dealers operating throughout the country who acquire tens of thousands of dogs and cats. ``Random source'' dealers are USDA licensed Class B dealers that provide animals for research. Many of these animals are family pets, acquired by so-called ``bunchers'' who sometimes resort to theft and deception as they collect animals and sell them to Class B dealers. ``Bunchers'' often respond to ``free pet to a good home'' advertisements, tricking animal owners into 
   giving away their pets by posing as someone interested in adopting the dog or cat. Some random source dealers are known to keep hundreds of animals at a time in squalid conditions, providing them with little food or water. The mistreated animals often pass through several hands and across state lines before they are eventually sold by a random source dealer to a research laboratory. 
   Mr. President, the use of these animals in research is subject to legitimate criticism because of the fraud, theft, and abuse that I have just described. Dr. Robert Whitney, former director for the Office of Animal Care and Use at the National Institutes of Health echoed this sentiment when he stated, ``The continue existence of these virtually unregulatable Class B dealers erodes the public confidence in our commitment to appropriate procurement, care, and use of animals in the important research to better the health of both humans and animals.'' While I doubt that laboratories intentionally seek out stolen or fraudulently obtained dogs and cats as research subjects, the fact remains that these animals end up in research laboratories, and little is being done to stop it. Mr. President, it is clear to most observers, including animal welfare organizations around the country, that this problem persists because of random source animal dealers. 
   The Pet Safety and Protection Act strengthens the Animal Welfare Act by prohibiting the use of random source animal dealers as suppliers of dogs and cats to research laboratories. At the same time, the Pet Safety and Protection Act preserves the integrity of animal research by encouraging research laboratories to obtain animals from legitimate sources that comply with the Animal Welfare Act. Legitimate sources are USDA-licensed Class A dealers or breeders, municipal pounds that choose to release dogs and cats for  research purposes, legitimate pet owners who want to donate their animals to research, and private and federal facilities that breed their own animals. These four sources are capable of supplying millions of animals for research, far more cats and dogs than are required by current laboratory demand. Furthermore, at least in the case of using municipal pounds, research laboratories could save money since pound animals cost only a few dollars compared to the high fees charged by random animal dealers. The National Institutes of Health, in an effort to curb abuse and deception, has already adopted policies against the acquisition of dogs and cats from random source dealers. 
   The Pet Safety and Protection Act also reduces the Department of Agriculture's regulatory burden by allowing the Department to sue its resources more efficiently and effectively. Each year, hundreds of thousands of dollars are spent on regulating 40 random source dealers. To combat any future violations of the Animal Welfare Act, the Pet Safety and Protection Act increases the penalties under the Act to a minimum of $1,000 per violation. 
   The history of disregard for the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act by some animal dealers makes the Pet Safety and Protection Act necessary. Mr. President, the purpose of this Act to stop the fraudulent practices of some Class B Dealers. Most importantly, it ensures that animals used in research are not gained by theft or deceit, and are provided decent shelter, ventilation, sanitation, and nourishment. The bill in no way impairs or impedes research, but ends senseless neglect, brutality, and deceit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as I listen to all the evils attributed to the sugar program during today's debate on the McCain amendment, I hardly recognize the tiny white crystals that sweeten my cereal each morning. 
   Sugar is an essential element of human nutrition. It's also one of the least expensive food items you will find in an American kitchen. When you go to a restaurant, there are only two things available at no charge and in unlimited quantity: water and sugar. Despite these achievements, sugar is being abused and maligned on the Senate floor. 
   As I listen to the criticism of the sugar program,I think that some of my colleagues have lost sight of a basic fact that American consumers clearly understand: sugar is probably the best bargain you can find at the grocery store today. A pound of refined sugar  costs 39 cents. American sugar farmers and the U.S. sugar program help make sugar affordable. 
   Consumers elsewhere around the globe do not enjoy the low prices we have in America. If you visit a grocery store in other industrialized nations you will get ``sticker shock'' when you pass the sugar display. In Tokyo, consumers pay nearly 90 cents for a pound of sugar, more than twice the U.S. price. In Europe, prices average 50 to 70 cents per pound. Obviously, sugar is no bargain in Europe and Japan. 
   On average, the retail price for a pound of sugar is 54 cents in developed countries--38 percent more than the price in American supermarkets. Consumers in developing countries pay a significant premium for sugar. When they go to market, all they get is the same one-pound box of sugar as we do in America, but they pay substantially more for it--38 percent more. 
   Thanks to a farm program that assures stable supplies at reasonable prices, sugar is a remarkable bargain for American consumers. U.S. consumers pay an average of 17 cents less per pound of sugar than their counterparts in other industrialized nations. Low U.S. prices save consumers $1.4 billion annually. That's why I say that the sugar program is a great deal for American consumers. Thanks to the sugar program, U.S. consumers enjoy a plentiful supply of sugar at bargain prices. 
   I thank my colleagues for rejecting this amendment. If Congress terminates the sugar program, not only will a dynamic part of the economy disappear from many rural areas, but consumers will also lose a reliable supply of high-quality, low-price sugar. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I ask unanimous consent to speak for 6 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-4-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to urge Senate consideration of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, CTBT. As Ranking Member of the Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services, I believe that ratification of the CTBT would enhance our nation's security for several reasons. 
   It imposes a verifiable ban on all nuclear weapons testing, conducted anywhere, at any time; it takes a pro-active step towards ending the threat of nuclear tests conducted by rogue nations attempting to develop nuclear weapons; and it demonstrates the United States' commitment to a safer and more secure future free from radioactive fallout produced by nuclear explosions. Implementing the CTBT does not preclude improving our nuclear weapons. The United States will be able to maintain a sophisticated and viable arsenal without conducting dangerous nuclear tests. 
   In the last decade, the most frequently cited argument against a test ban has been the claim that continued testing is necessary to ensure that stockpiled weapons are reliable; that is, they will detonate as planned and that the yield and effects will meet design specifications. Even test ban critics acknowledge that reliability stockpile testing has been mainly nonnuclear. 
   In testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee, Robert Baker, former Deputy Assistant Director for Verification and Intelligence at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, ACDA, said, ``[they] do not routinely go out and take nuclear weapons out of the stockpile and test them.'' Other weapons designers have testified that nuclear tests simulations on high-performance computers are adequate substitutes for nuclear explosions and can provide accurate data on warhead viability. 
   The purpose of testing existing weapons has not been to detect unforeseen problems but rather to check on particular problems identified through the non-nuclear inspection and simulation program. With very rare exceptions, the tested weapons performed in the desired manner. In fact, only one stockpile confidence test performed between 1979 and 1986 revealed a problem needing correction. The reason that any nuclear reliability testing of stockpiled weapons has been necessary in the past is that some older types of nuclear designs were originally put into the stockpile without the stringent production verification tests now standard. Our stockpile stewardship program enables the United States to meet the requirements for a treaty banning all types of nuclear testing while simultaneously maintaining a viable nuclear arsenal. 
   This is not a new effort. It was not invented by the Clinton Administration. American presidents have sought for nearly forty years to negotiate a treaty that prohibits nuclear testing. 
   President Eisenhower initially noted its importance in his State of the Union address in January of 1960 when he said that ``looking to a controlled ban on nuclear testing'' could be the means of ending the ``calamitous cycle . . . which, if unchecked, could spiral into nuclear disaster.'' 
   President KENNEDY later reaffirmed the United States' commitment to such a treaty in a 1963 commencement address at American University, stating that ``the conclusion of such a treaty [that ended nuclear testing] would check the spiraling arms race in one of its most dangerous areas. . . . [Furthermore,] it would increase our security [and] it would decrease the prospects of war.'' Today, this treaty has the strong support of members from both parties. 
   If the Senate does not consent to the ratification of this treaty before the September 24, 1999, deadline, the United States will not be able to participate in decisions regarding the future of the treaty. Under the terms of Article XIV of the CTBT, a conference of the countries that have ratified can  be convened on the third anniversary of the treaty's opening for signature to determine how to ``accelerate the ratification process in order to facilitate the [treaty's] early entry into force.'' Although both countries that have and have not ratified the treaty before the date of this conference may attend, the non-member countries of the treaty are only invited as observers and may not participate. 
   The United States is one of the 44 named countries that is required to sign and ratify the treaty before it can ``enter into force''. If the United States does not ratify this treaty, we are preventing the CTBT's implementation. The United States must ratify this treaty so that it can continue its leadership role in arms control. We should not be the holdout country that threatens the CTBT's entry into force. By demonstrating our commitment to halting nuclear testing, the United States creates an environment that encourages other countries to ratify the treaty. 
   The threat of rogue nations developing nuclear weapons is real and urgent. The July 1999 Deutch Commission's Report, entitled ``Combating Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction,'' cites several examples: in the spring of 1998, India and Pakistan conducted nuclear tests, worsening instability on the subcontinent; during the recent crisis in Kashmir, a nuclear war in South Asia looked possible for the first time; and countries in the Middle East and East Asia attempted to acquire weapons of mass destruction. The CTBT prevents other nations who ratify it from conducting nuclear tests. It helps rein in rogue nations now and in the future that attempt to acquire and develop weapons of mass destruction. 
   Finally, this is a treaty that the American people want. Recent polls show that 82 percent of Americans support ratification of the CTBT. They know that ending nuclear explosions is a better way to protect the United States against nuclear weapons threats. 
   I urge the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to hold hearings on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty so that we may take action on this agreement before it is too late. We cannot allow the United States to be locked out of its rightful leadership role at the September review conference on this treaty. This treaty is the most effective step that we can take to enhance international security and to maintain nuclear safety. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the Excellence in Economic Education Act of 1999, a bill I am introducing today with my friends, Senators COCHRAN, MURRAY, INOUYE, and KERREY. 
   With each passing day, the need for increased economic literacy becomes more and more apparent. The rise of Internet commerce, market globalization, advances in technology, growth of online investment services, and the increase in the number of Americans who invest in the stock market serve to highlight the importance of economic literacy for citizens of every age and professional background. I am convinced that more education about basic economic concepts such as money, personal finance, and inflation--starting from a young age--could help people make decisions about their financial situation, so that they can better prepare for and endure our changing economy. 
   We need to help young people better understand economic implications of their actions: they can't always get what they want; they need to be more responsible with money; and, they are learning fiscal habits now that will stay with them for the rest of their lives. 
   In addition to teaching our youth how to make good financial decisions, we must help them become productive and well-informed citizens. It has been shown that a lack of knowledge about fundamental economics can have negative effects on our economy and lead to divisions and polarization in our communities. Economic education can have profound long-term effects for all of us. 
   We must educate our country's future workforce about what effects the retirements of our ``baby boom generation'' will have on them. Currently, Social Security reform is one of the biggest issues that is before us. We are working to ensure that Social Security will remain solvent well into the next century. 
   As we know, the number of people receiving Social Security will surge from 44 million now to 75 million in 2020. Even if we achieve a truly bipartisan  solution on Social Security, our young people will still feel the impact from this tremendous future demographic shift, and they should learn how to prepare themselves for security in retirement. Economic education can help them. 
   Mr. President, I would like to comment on the results of a basic economics test given nationally by the National Council on Economic Education, which provides further evidence of the need for increased economic education. Taken by 1,010 adults and 1,085 high school students, the test's findings are striking: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise, while we are debating the budget reconciliation bill, to talk about an important family issue that I raised during debate on the emergency supplemental bill in March. I want to voice my strong opposition to efforts by Members in the other body to use $6 billion in unspent welfare and health care funds, intended for low-income children and their families, as a gimmick to overcome their problem with this year's low budget caps. 
   Mr. President, I am referring to attempts to rescind $6 billion in unobligated Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF money, and unobligated Medicaid or Children's Health Insurance Plan funds. I learned of this proposal after reading the July 28, 1999, New York Times, in which appeared a story entitled, ``Leaders in House Covet States' Unspent Welfare Money.'' Why do they want to do this? To help fund the $792 billion tax cut proposal that the other body passed last week--a proposal that would mostly help the wealthy in our nation. Any such action would be a repudiation of our promise to help families living in poverty. It is a classic situation of reverse Robin Hood: robbing the poor to give more to the rich. 
   Mr. President, during debate on the welfare reform bill in 1996, states agreed to trade entitlement status under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program for the assurance of a fixed, annual amount in the form of a block grant. Those of us who opposed the welfare bill for this and other reasons warned that it would be harder under a block grant to keep welfare funds from being cut. Now, certain members are turning our fears into reality. The cuts in this former entitlement program have begun. Cutting funds in this manner, Mr. President, would represent a betrayal of our promise to protect America's poor families. 
   Again, as I explained in March, the term, ``unobligated,'' may seem self-explanatory--that these are simply funds that have not been spent under TANF, Medicaid, or CHIP. Under TANF, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, a combined total of $4.2 billion from fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999 is available. Some would point out that many poor families have worked their way to self-sufficiency and that welfare rolls have fallen by record numbers, as reasons why this money is not needed by states and remains unobligated. 
   However, many states are relying heavily on these unobligated funds and have already committed them for a wide variety of uses. States need to distribute some of this funding to counties and local agencies, or to child care and social services activities. Governors are keeping ``rainy day'' funds for contingencies such as recessions or periods of stagnant growth--as we have now in my State of Hawaii--that force families back onto welfare and leave states without enough money until the next quarterly federal payment. States are also planning to use this money for fundamental or new, innovative expenses to help poor families become financially independent. 
   In July 23, the National Governors Association wrote to Congressmen JOHN PORTER and DAVID OBEY of the House Appropriations Committee, to plead their case. This letter is signed by Governors Thomas R. Carper of Delaware and Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, one Democrat and one Republican. The letter states, ``Cutting funding for vital health and human services programs such as Medicaid, CHIP, TANF, and child support would adversely affect millions of Americans--with the greatest impact on children and the elderly in the greatest need. We reiterate our adamant and uniform opposition to these unprecedented cuts and to any proposal that would result in such drastic cuts to our most vulnerable citizens.'' 
   I concur with the Governors' sentiments about these valuable programs. 
   Mr. President, I do this especially because the monies in question were originally designated to help our poorest children and their families. Instead, they would, over the next 10 years, go toward such things as estate tax relief and capital gains tax relief--tax benefits for the wealthiest taxpayers in the Nation. 
   Tax relief can be a good thing. However, it should not be the top priority when we face the urgent need to pay down our country's debt and save Social Security and Medicare. I hope my colleagues agree with me on an issue that is important to many poor Americans. I hope funding is not taken out of TANF, Medicaid or CHIP, as a solution to low budget caps. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I join my colleague, Senator LANDRIEU, in introducing legislation to reauthorize the Historic Preservation Fund and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. As my colleagues may know, the authorization for the Historic Preservation Fund expired on September 30, 1997, and the authorization for the Advisory Council expires on September 30, 2000. This bill would reauthorize the fund and the Council through fiscal year 2005. 
   There is a growing backlog of preservation needs throughout our country that is not being met. To ensure that this situation is not exacerbated, and to address these shortfalls on a long-term basis, the Historic Preservation Fund should be reauthorized at the earliest opportunity. 
   The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 was amended in 1976 to establish the Historic Preservation Fund. Administered by the National Park Service, the Fund provides grants-in-aid to States, certified local governments, and outlying areas. The National Historic Preservation Act provides that $150 million from Outer Continental shelf oil and gas receipts is deposited in the Fund each year. The revenue remains available in the Fund until appropriated by Congress. Since September 30, 1997, no additional deposits from OCS revenues into the Fund have been authorized. 
   Reauthorization of the Historic Preservation Fund is critical because it provides for the continuation of grants used by States, Tribes, Native Hawaiians, Alaska Natives, and local governments to pay the costs of surveys, comprehensive historic preservation plans, National Register nominations, brochures and educational materials, as well as architectural plans, historic structure reports, and engineering studies necessary to repair listed properties. 
   Since 1968, over $800 million in grant funds has been awarded to 59 States, territories, local governments, Native Hawaiian organizations, Indian tribes, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. In Fiscal Year 1998, the States received a total of $29.4 million in historic preservation grants-in-aid, an average allocation of $524,000, which typically is matched by $350,000 in non-federal matching share contributions. 
   During 1998, States surveyed 14.9 million acres of historic resources and added 185,100 properties to their inventories. Also in 1998, States submitted 1,602 nominations to the National Register of Historic Places and reviewed 89,000 Federal projects for compliance with Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. In Hawaii, over 38,000 properties are maintained on the state's inventory of known historic properties. 
   Besides providing grants-in-aid, the Historic Preservation Fund also administers a grant program for Native Hawaiians, Indian Tribes, and Alaska Natives for cultural heritage programs. The Tribal Preservation Program has directly assisted over 170 tribes through the award of 259 grants. 
   For example, the Hopi Tribe in Arizona received a grant to document the rock art sites at Antelope Mesa, resulting in 100 sites being included in their Cultural Resources Management Plan. In Alaska, the Native Village of Venetie drafted a historic preservation plan for Venetie and Arctic Village utilizing a grant from the Historic 
   Preservation Fund. The Seneca Nation of Indians in New York used a grant to develop educational materials for their school children using oral interviews with tribal elders. 
   In all, more than $9 million in grant funds has been used to assist tribes in assuming State Historic Preservation Office responsibilities, in drafting preservation ordinances, implementing cultural resource management plans, identifying and protecting historic sites, and conducting preservation needs assessments. 
   In addition, the Fund provides matching grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities to preserve threatened historic buildings located on their campuses. Funding for preservation projects has been used at Fisk University and Knoxville College in Tennessee; Miles College, Talladega College, Selma University, Stillman College, Concordia College in Alabama; Allen University, Claflin College, Voorhees College in South Carolina; and Rust College and Tougaloo University in Mississippi. 
   In addition to the Historic Preservation Fund, Congress created the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966. As an independent federal agency, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, the Council is the major policy advisor to the Federal government on historic preservation. The Council administers programs including, but not limited to, the Historic Preservation Fund, the National Register, and programs of the National Trust. The Council also reviews the policies of Federal agencies in implementing the National Historic Preservation Act, conducts training and educational programs, and encourages public participation in historic preservation. The Council's authorization expires in Fiscal Year 2000. 
   The Council's role in working with Federal agencies to support the National Historic Preservation Act is essential for protecting this country's historical resources. The Council coordinates many different preservation programs. The Council works with the Housing and Urban Development's HOME program for affordable housing, promotes preservation of historic properties during natural disasters, and promotes preservation and reuse of historic properties during military base closures. The Council, working with State and local governments through State Historic Preservation Officers, has significantly enhanced our ability to preserve our national heritage.  
   Both the Historic Preservation Fund and the Advisory Council contribute to ongoing Federal, Native Hawaiian, Tribal, State, local and private partnerships in historic preservation. Matching funds are contributed by the States and local and private partners to enhance the investment in our historic heritage. Federal and State funding for historic preservation creates jobs, promotes economic development, and helps leverage commitments from private and public sources. 
   Historic sites in our country are tangible reminders of our diverse and rich heritage and provide us with a sense of continuity with our past. The Historic Preservation Fund has provided numerous opportunities for preserving our country's irreplaceable historic and archeological resources. For example, in Hawaii, preservation projects in the Oahu Market in Chinatown and at the Mission Houses were funded through Historic Preservation Fund grants. Similarly, New Hampshire used preservation funding to assist with the transformation of the 1925 Goffstown High 
   School into an apartment complex for the town's older inhabitants. The Alaska Gold Rush Centennial was developed as a heritage tourism initiative of the Alaska State Historic Preservation Office using historic preservation funds to establish State-community partnerships. Also, the Save America's Treasures program funded by the Historic Preservation Fund has provided grants for preservation projects of national scope and significance, including restoration of the Star-Spangled Banner and the Declaration of Independence. 
   A similar bill introduced by the Senator from Louisiana (Ms. LANDRIEU) passed the Senate last year by unanimous consent but was not acted on by the House. I hope that the legislation we are offering today--a simple reauthorization of the Fund and Council through 2005--can be adopted expeditiously. 
   This legislation is supported by the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers, the National Alliance of Statewide Preservation Organizations, the National Coordinating Committee for the Promotion of History, Preservation Action, the Society for American Archaeology, and the American Historical Association. I urge my colleagues to support this measure as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on a very important piece of legislation--legislation that is vital to the future of health care in this country, the Patients' Bill of Rights. Democrats have fought long and hard to debate this bill on the floor of the Senate and I am thankful for the opportunity to speak in support of the underlying measure. 
   Today more than 160 million Americans, over 75 percent of the insured population, obtain health coverage through some form of managed care. Managed care arrangements can and do provide affordable, quality health care to large numbers of people. Yet reports of financial consideration taking precedence over patients health needs deserve our attention. We hear stories and read news articles about people who have paid for health insurance or received employer-sponsored insurance, became ill, only to discover that their insurance does not provide coverage. Recent surveys indicate that Americans are increasingly worried about their health care coverage. 115 million Americans report having a bad experience with a health insurance company or knowing someone who has. This undermining of confidence in our health care system must be addressed. We must act to restore the peace of mind of families in knowing that their health insurance will be there when they need it most. We can accomplish this by establishing real consumer protections, restoring the doctors decision-making authority, and ensuring that patients get the care they need. 
   Some of the important issues that we are debating include the scope of coverage, definition of who determines ``medically necessity,'' protecting the doctor/patient relationship, access to care, and accountability. 
   True managed care reform cannot come from a narrow bill that covers only a certain segment of the population. Today much of the regulation of managed care plans comes form the states. However, federal laws such as the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, combined with the various state regulations, form a patchwork of regulation for managed care plans. Some in this chamber believe that the protections we are considering should only apply to ERISA-covered plans and not to the 113 million Americans who have private insurance that is regulated by the states. They argue that these issues should be left to the states to address. Democrats believe that everyone deserves equal protection, regardless of where they may live or work. The Patients' Bill of Rights would not interfere with patient protection laws passed by the states, it would simply extend these patient protection rights to all Americans. 
   As managed care has grown, so has the pressure on doctors and other health care providers to control costs. Complaints receiving widespread attention include denials of necessary care, lack of accountability, limited choice of providers, inadequate access to care, and deficient information disclosure for consumers to make informed plan decisions. Mr. President, a strong Patients' Bill of Rights should address the shortcomings of managed care. S. 6 takes a comprehensive approach in dealing with these issues, which is why I am a cosponsor of the measure. 
   The dominance of managed care has undermined the doctor-patient relationship. Often tools are used to restrain doctors from communicating freely with patients or providing them with incentives to limit care. We need to ensure that insurers cannot arbitrarily interfere in the medical decision making. The Patients' Bill of Rights includes a number of provisions to prevent arbitrary interference by insurers. Our bill establishes an independent definition of medical necessity, prohibits gag clauses on physicians and other restrictions on medical communications, and protects providers from retaliation if they advocate for their patients. 
   The issue of who decides what is medically necessary is probably the most fundamental issue of this debate. We must empower patients so they receive appropriate medical treatment, not necessarily the cheapest treatment, not necessarily the treatment that an insurance company determines is appropriate, but the best treatment. Currently, many doctors are finding insurance plans second-guessing and overriding their medical decisions. Democrats believe that the ``medical necessity'' of patient care should be determined by physicians, consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice. Doctors are trained to diagnose and make treatment decisions based on the best professional medical practice. We need to keep the medical decisions in the hands of doctors and not insurance company bureaucrats. 
   Families in managed care plans often face numerous obstacles when seeking access to doctors and health care services. Some of these barriers include restrictions on access to emergency room services, specialists, needed drugs, and clinical trials. S. 6 would ensure access to the closest emergency room, without requiring prior authorization. It would provide access to qualified specialists, including providers outside of the network if the managed care company's choices are inadequate, and direct access to obstetricians and gynecologists for women and pediatricians for children. S. 6 would also ensure access to drugs not included in a managed care plan's covered list when medically indicated and provide access to quality clinical trials. 
   Finally, the underlying bill allows consumers to hold managed care companies accountable for medical negligence. Currently, insurers make decisions with almost no accountability. Patients deserve the right to a timely internal appeal and an unbiased external review process when they disagree with a decision made by the insurer. Patients also deserve recourse when the misconduct of managed care plans results in serious injury or death. However, under ERISA plans, patients have no right to obtain remedy under state  law. These patients are limited to the narrow federal remedy under ERISA, which covers only the cost of the procedure the plan failed to pay for. S. 6 would ensure that managed care companies can be held accountable for their actions. It does not establish a right to sue, but prevents federal law from blocking what the states deem to be appropriate remedies. A strong legal liability provision will discourage insurers from improper treatment denials or delays and result in better health care. 
   Mr. President, only a comprehensive bill will guarantee patient protection with access to quality, affordable health care. We should not miss this important opportunity to enact meaningful legislation that is federally enforceable and will improve care and restore confidence in our health care system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank the manager of the bill for allowing me to do this. 
   I ask unanimous consent to speak for about 6 minutes to introduce a bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to our former colleague, a dear friend and a great American, Ambassador James R. Sasser, whose distinguished service as United States Ambassador to the People's Republic of China ended yesterday. Ambassador Sasser helped guide US-China relations through an interesting and complicated period, and as he and his family return to the United States I want to thank him for his dignified representation of our country. 
   I was privileged to serve with Jim Sasser when he was a member of the United States Senate. From 1977-1995, Jim Sasser distinguished himself first as the junior Senator, then later as the senior Senator from the State of Tennessee. While a member of the United States Senate, Senator Sasser served as chairman of the Senate Budget Committee and as chair of numerous subcommittees on a variety of domestic and foreign policy areas. During his tenure in the Senate, Senator Sasser introduced legislation to improve child nutrition, increase regulation of savings institutions and enhance research and training for geriatric diseases. However, Senator Sasser was best known for his role as chairman of the Senate Budget Committee where he worked with the White House to secure passage of the 1993 Budget Reconciliation and Deficit Reduction Act, an accomplishment that is in large part responsible for the unprecedented period of economic growth our nation enjoys and the transformation of an escalating federal budget deficit into an impressive surplus. 
   Moreover, Senator Sasser distinguished himself on foreign policy issues, courageously speaking his mind on issues such as the Reagan Administration policies in Central America. He was well respected by his colleagues and was known for his sharp intellect and genial personality. His campaign slogan during his 1976 Senate campaign was ``in behalf of a government that reflects our decency.'' Senator Sasser lived up to that promise through his distinguished record in the United States Senate. 
   After returning to private life in 1995, Jim Sasser served as a Fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University before he was nominated as Ambassador to China. On January 10, 1996, Jim Sasser was sworn in by Vice President AL GORE as United States Ambassador to the People's Republic of China. Knowing that Sino-American relations were at an all time low, Ambassador Sasser went to the People's Republic of China with the same diligence that distinguished him as a Senator. The first motto that he graced the Chinese Embassy with, ``We may doze, but we never close,'' typifies the job that Ambassador Sasser did for three remarkable years. 
   Ambassador to China is one of the most difficult assignments for a diplomat. Dealing with the government of the most populous country in the world can be an intimidating task. Ambassador Sasser rose to the challenge and quickly established amicable relationships with President Jiang Zemin and most recently with premier Zhu Rongji. So tight were there bonds that Premier Zhu said after his trip to America with Jim Sasser last year. ``I would never have made it without the Ambassador.'' The relationships allowed Ambassador Sasser to navigate 
   through the tough times in United States-China relations and have helped build and sustain cordial relations between the President of the United States and the President of the People's Republic of China. Moreover, his 18 years of distinguished service in the U.S. Senate helped prepare him for dealing with domestic and foreign policymakers in both countries. 
   Just weeks after Ambassador Sasser was sworn in, his diligence was tested when China began missile tests over the Taiwan Strait. Recently, United States-China relations were strained once again by the tragic, accidental bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade during NATO air strikes and reports of Chinese espionage of our national nuclear weapons laboratories. Ambassador Sasser distinguished himself and the entire American contingent of diplomats in China by acting in a respectful and sympathetic manner to the Chinese government during this unfortunate incident. I will never forget the photographs of Ambassador Sasser in the ruins of our embassy in Beijing. The calm, composed, and dignified manner in which he responded to the seige at our embassy and ambassador's residence are the benchmark for grace under fire and will forever symbolize the sacrifice and skills of our nation's diplomatic corps and foreign service personnel. 
   I had the opportunity to visit and talk with Ambassador Sasser on numerous occasions in Beijing. His assistance and advice was always courteous and on point. From human rights issues to intellectual property copyrights, Ambassador Sasser has done a tremendous job representing and communicating American interests in the People's Republic of China. During his 40 months of service as American Ambassador to China, the longest tenure  of any American Ambassador to China, Jim Sasser has accomplished so much in helping to improve Sino-American relations. His achievements are numerous and commendable. Ambassador Sasser's service has helped advance cooperation between American and Chinese political and security officials. Economic relations between our two countries have improved under Ambassador Sasser's leadership including ongoing negotiations for admitting China into the World Trade Organization. In the area of nuclear nonproliferation, Ambassador Sasser has seen the Chinese government address U.S. concerns about providing assistance to rogue nations, as well as issuing a State Council directive controlling export of dual-use items with potential nuclear weapons uses. The U.S. Embassy in China has also helped to secure relief assistance to Chinese earthquake victims. The list of accomplishments of Ambassador Sasser and his corps of diplomatic officials goes on and on. His record as Ambassador speaks for itself. 
   Although United States-China relations have been damaged by the accidental bombing of the Belgrade embassy, we can say that relations with China are better now than they were 3 years ago when Ambassador Sasser assumed his post in Beijing. 
   Now that Jim and Mary have returned safely home, I would like to take one final opportunity to thank them and his family for their courageous service and commitment to serving America in China. I have to agree with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's assessment of Ambassador Sasser as ``the best Ambassador to China we've ever had''. To Jim Sasser and his family, I say maholo nui loa, thank you very much, for your service and bid you aloha, welcome home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I wish to call attention to an important Governmental Affairs Committee hearing on export controls held last week. 
   In August 1998, the Chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee requested the Inspectors General of the Departments of Commerce, Defense, Energy, State, and Treasury and the Central Intelligence Agency to conduct a review of their export license processes and to follow-up on an earlier set of reports that were done in 1993. 
   In their reports and at the hearing, the Inspectors General raised a number of important issues which, I believe, will require further oversight and clarification. These issues are especially important in light of the recent Cox Committee Report which highlighted espionage activities at our National Laboratories and the release of classified nuclear information. As we begin to debate the reauthorization of the Export Administration Act, the recommendations made by the Inspectors General should be considered in this context. 
   The Inspectors General concluded that the export control processes work relatively well, but they also highlighted additional issues that the Congress should continue to monitor. Certain of these issues include: 
   Inadequate monitoring by our National Laboratories of foreign visitors, who may be exposed to controlled technology which may require an export license. 
   Inadequate analysis by all of the agencies of the cumulative effect of dual-use and munitions list exports to a particular country or end-user. 
   Need to upgrade certain computer systems used in the export process. 
   Improve monitoring of conditions placed on licenses to ensure that sophisticated items are not diverted. 
   Enhance the processes for pre-license checks and post-shipment verifications of certain exports. 
   Enhance training and guidance of Licensing Officers. 
   I look forward to the Governmental Affairs Committee holding further hearings on this subject. We must ensure that the United States maintains an efficient and effective export control system. Further, our additional oversight on this issue will help ensure that exports of dual-use and munitions items will not go to rogue nations or individuals.  
   Our hearing last week raised important national security and proliferation issues, and I commend Senator THOMPSON and Senator LIEBERMAN, the ranking member of the Governmental Affairs Committee, for their leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services, I want to stress the importance of the United States implementing in a timely manner the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, commonly referred as the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC). 
   The Convention is an important multilateral agreement that serves to reduce the threat posed by chemical  weapons. It bans the development, production, stockpiling, and use of chemical weapons by signatory states. The Convention also requires the destruction of all chemical weapons and production facilities by signatory states. 
   The Convention does not, however, prohibit the manufacture, use, and consumption of chemicals that could be used as warfare agents or their precursor chemicals as long as these chemicals are used for legitimate peaceful purposes. 
   Although the Convention has been in force for 2 1/2 years, the United States is not in the compliance because the administration has not yet submitted the required industrial declarations to the International Organization on the Proliferation of Chemical Weapons. This is a disappointment since the United States played a central role in spearheading development of this treaty. 
   Most of our allies have complied with their treaty obligations, but it is likely that they will not agree to a second round of inspections until the United States has submitted declarations and U.S. industry has undergone inspections. 
   The United States has the largest chemical industry in the world. This industry is involved in legitimate production, use, consumption, export and import of chemicals subject to verification under the Convention. The United States must serve as a model of compliance with the Convention to build confidence with our friends and foes and also to ensure that chemical weapons are never used again. 
   On June 25, 1999, President Clinton issued Executive Order 13128 to implement the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998, which Congress passed on October 21, 1998. 
   However, the administration still has not issued regulations for industry to comply with the declaration and inspection requirements under the treaty. 
   The American chemical industry is poised to comply with our treaty obligations. I hope the administration quickly issues these regulations so the United States is in compliance with our treaty obligations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill that would continue a program vital to helping welfare recipients who face the greatest barriers to finding and securing employment, called the Welfare-to-Work Amendments of 1999. My bill targets resources to families and communities with the greatest need, simplifies eligibility criteria for participation, and helps non-custodial parents get jobs to enable them to make child support payments. It also opens more resources to Native Americans, the homeless, those with disabilities or substance abuse problems, and victims of domestic violence. This is similar to a proposal unveiled by the Clinton Administration earlier this year and introduced as H.R. 1482 by Representative BENJAMIN CARDIN of Maryland. I would also like to thank my colleagues Senators MOYNIHAN, FEINSTEIN, WELLSTONE, MURRAY, and LAUTENBERG for joining me as original cosponsors of my bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I quote from that letter to me.  
   President Clinton and I believe the Welfare-to-Work Grants Program is a key component of the overall welfare reform efforts.  
   Mr. President, the Welfare-to-Work program has helped numerous welfare parents--both custodial and non-custodial--find and keep jobs that pay a living wage and allow them to fulfill basic obligations to their children. Children have fundamental needs for food, shelter, and clothing, yet many parents find themselves barely scraping by, in order to obtain these things. Many families are unable to go much beyond the essentials to enroll their children in sports and other activities that build strong bodies and social skills, or to provide them with decent school supplies, books or computers to develop strong minds. Most families take these things for granted because they live without the anxiety of wondering when the next paycheck or child support payment might be coming in. They have the finances to pay for child care to enable parents to work during the day. They have cars or other access to transportation that will take them to work every morning. Or they have a telephone so that they may receive calls for job interviews. The families that cannot make ends meet continue to live in dire need and find their children living at risk. 
   Mr. President, 14.5 million American children live in poverty. Furthermore, as reported in Kids Count 1999, 32 percent of children do not live with two parents and 19 percent live in a home where the head of household is a high school dropout. Twenty-one percent of children are in families with incomes below the poverty line, 28 percent are living with a parent or parents lacking steady full-time employment, and 15 percent do not have health insurance. It is a shame that, in the most prosperous nation in the world, we continue to be faced with these dismal statistics for our children--young Americans who hold the promise of this country's future in their hands. 
   Many of these children were helped when the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 created the Welfare-to-Work program as a new system for providing assistance to welfare recipients most in need. This followed on the heels of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, which replaced the Aid to Families with Dependent Children cash assistance program with the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. 
   The 1996 welfare reform law addressed the bulk of the welfare population but lacked a component to help the hardest to employ welfare recipients. Thus, Welfare-to-Work was passed to assist this population find jobs and achieve independence so they no longer  would need public support. The Welfare-to-Work program became an essential component of the Administration's welfare reform effort by providing recipients with a good alternative to welfare. 
   Since 1996, the number of people in the system dropped by a record number: forty percent from a peak of about five million families in 1994 down to three million families as of June, 1998, according to the General Accounting Office. However, the job is not finished. Welfare-to-Work is needed now more than ever because those remaining on the rolls are increasing likely to have multiple barriers to employment such as poor work experience, inadequate English or computer skills, or substance abuse problems. 
   We need to invest much more to help these individuals reach self-sufficiency than we did in those who have already left welfare-these individuals might have already had an educational record, special skills or significant family support behind them to help them to their feet. In contrast, Welfare-to-Work participants are the welfare recipients who need the most help. In addition, extending Welfare-to-Work will become even more important when TANF recipients and their children reach welfare time limits in 19 states by year's end and have their benefits reduced or completely removed. 
   These are the hard luck cases, Mr. President. These are the people who continue to be left out of the economic boom of the 1990s. And these are the people whom Welfare-to-Work was designed to help. If we let the program expire this year, even if states have three years from the date of award to spend their program funds, we will be saying to these people, ``We've forgotten the promises we made to you in 1996 that we would continue to help you. Now, there is no more help for you.'' 
   This would be particularly harmful in my state of Hawaii which has struggled due to the Asian financial crisis and has been the only state where welfare rolls have increased. Welfare-to-Work has assisted many of Hawaii's welfare recipients through this period of financial hardship for the state by helping them find unsubsidized employment. The program must be extended so that it may help other recipients and their families in my beleaguered state. 
   My bill not only extends the Welfare-to-Work program, but it also makes a number of important improvements to the program that states, counties, and cities have requested. Currently, most funds allocated to Welfare-to-Work 
   state formula grants cannot be used because of eligibility criteria that are difficult to meet. Currently, an individual must have been receiving assistance for at least 30 months or must be within 12 months of reaching the maximum period for assistance. In addition, they must have two of three characteristics, including: lacks a high school diploma or GED and has low math or reading skills; has a poor work history; or requires substance abuse treatment for employment. These criteria have excluded many TANF applicants who, for instance, may have a GED or high school diploma but still cannot read; these criteria have proven unrealistic. 
   Instead, under my bill, criteria would be changed to require participants to have one out of seven characteristics: lacks a high school diploma or GED; has English reading writing, or computer skills at or below the 8th grade level; has a poor work history; requires substance abuse treatment for employment; is homeless; has a disability; or is a victim of domestic violence. This revision in eligibility criteria would allow the program to better match the participant pool. It is necessary because current criteria have left more than 90 percent of Welfare-to-Work state formula grants unspent. In Hawaii alone, only 37 percent of our TANF recipients have been eligible to participate in the program, and this figure would double under my bill. Furthermore, officials of the Hawaii Department of Human Services which administers TANF and Welfare-to-Work in my state predict that unless the Federal law is changed, it is unlikely that they will be able to refer clients in sufficient numbers to meet WtW expectations. Similar situations exist in all states, and these criteria revisions respond to State and local entities that have been doing the work of Welfare-to-Work and want to serve as many participants as possible. In Texas, 21,000 people would be able to participate in the program, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. Under my bill, figures like this could be seen across the nation, and more people in need would be able to find employment. 
   A related improvement contained in my bill is that it transfers any unallocated Welfare-to-Work formula grant funds into the competitive grant program. This competitive grant program has been tremendously popular. 
   Out of the 1400 applications submitted requesting a total of $5 billion, only 126 applications for $470 million in funds were awarded in FY 1998. This portion of Welfare-to-Work needs more funding. Under my bill, preference is given to grant applications submitted from states that did not receive a formula grant. 
   Mr. President, my bill also provides a re-emphasis on the whole family. This past Father's Day, I had the opportunity to celebrate with several of my children and their families, as it was a day to celebrate and honor the family. However, many fathers were not as fortunate as myself and were not able to celebrate with their children because they went through divorce and did not receive custody of the children. Even worse, many of these fathers are dismissively labeled ``dead beat dads'' because they are not a presence in their children's lives and do not pay child support. What we have found, Mr. President, is that many of these fathers do not want to abandon their children. Rather, they are ``dead broke dads'' and face the same barriers to finding and holding employment that many welfare mothers do. This prevents them from fulfilling child support obligations, which many want to do. If these fathers can provide for their children, they will be more likely to see them more often. Hopefully, renewed financial and emotional involvement of fathers will mean that these children's lives will improve. 
   For these non-custodial fathers, my bill will make it easier for them to participate in Welfare-to-Work. Currently, non-custodial parents face the same problems in attempting to qualify for Welfare-to-Work as other applicants because of the same overly-restrictive criteria. Under my bill, the eligibility requirements for non-custodial parents will be revised to allow them to demonstrate that they are unemployed, underemployed, or having difficulty paying child support payments. In addition, at least one of the following characteristics must apply to the minor child or non-custodial parent: the child or non-custodial parent has been on public assistance for over 30 months, or is within 12 months of becoming ineligible for TANF due to a time limit; the child is receiving or eligible for TANF; the child has left TANF within the past year; or the child is receiving or is eligible for food 
   stamps, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Medicaid, or the Children's Health Improvement Program (CHIP). 
   The bill increases funding for non-custodial parents by requiring that at least 20 percent of state formula funds be used for this population. The bill also provides that a non-custodial parent will enter into an individual responsibility contract with the service provider and state agency to say that he or she will cooperate in the establishment of paternity and in the establishment or modification of a child support order, make regular child support payments, and find and hold a job. These revisions are an attempt to permit and encourage non-custodial parents to provide for their children, become more involved in their children's lives, and pursue better lives for themselves and their families. 
   Mr. President, Native American communities will benefit from my bill from a doubling of the Native American set-aside from $15 million to $30 million. This funding increase in necessary because Native Americans currently receive one percent of the total Welfare-to-Work funds but serve 3.2 percent of total program participants, according to a recent U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Welfare-to-Work Evaluation. In recognition of their sovereignty, the bill also provides Native American tribes with flexibility in designing programs that are effective for their territories. It is a gross understatement to say that our Native  American communities have not had the chance to experience the economic success that our nation has been enjoying. We must do what we can to make up for this shortfall, fulfill our Federal responsibilities to Native Americans, and help families and children in Native American communities who face obstacles to self-sufficiency. 
   Mr. President, children who leave foster care at age 18 make up another hard-to-help population that faces numerous barriers to employment. My bill introduces new support for these individuals when they attempt to start out on their own by allowing them to take advantage of Welfare-to-Work programs. According to DOL, 20,000 children leave foster care annually. Of these, 32 to 40 percent receive some type of government assistance within the 
   first 18 months after leaving the foster care system. This bill provides funds to help them find alternatives to welfare as they leave their state care system. 
   My bill simplifies Welfare-to-Work reporting requirements so that the program can be evaluated effectively. This evaluation will allow Congress and DOL access to better statistics on how the program is performing nationwide. In addition, one-percent of the funds are provided for technical assistance so that DOL can ensure cooperation between states, local governments, TANF and child support agencies, and community-based organizations so that all are able to work together and be better able to provide services to those who are in need. 
   Finally, the bill eases Welfare-to-Work's ``work first'' requirements that mean that TANF recipients must find jobs first, before they are able to take advantage of stand-alone programs such as job training, basic education or vocational education programs. My bill would designate these as allowable work activities under Welfare-to-Work. This change is in response to requests from states who want to use program funds to better prepare recipients for the workforce before sending them off to a job. This approach seeks to improve TANF recipients' chances at maintaining steady employment. 
   Although my colleagues may have disagreed on welfare reform in the past, Welfare-to-Work is a program that all should be able to support. It represents a Federal-state-local partnership, as well as a partnership between government, private industry, and community-based organizations. It encourages people to take responsibility for themselves, find work, and contribute to their families and society in a meaningful way. We cannot abandon these welfare recipients who are the most difficult to employ and must instead invest in them in a way that will help them find jobs paying a living wage, become self-sufficient, and allow them to break out of the cycle of dependency on public assistance. 
   I would again like to thank my colleagues Senators MOYNIHAN, FEINSTEIN, WELLSTONE, MURRAY, and LAUTENBERG for joining me as original cosponsors of my bill, and I urge other colleagues to join us in supporting this important Welfare-to-Work reauthorization bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased today to introduce the Organ Donor Leave Act. This bill would extend the amount of leave in each calendar year available to federal workers who serve as living organ donors from 7 days to 30 days. It is a straight forward way to ensure that federal employees who serve as an organ donor have sufficient time to recover from an organ transplant operation. 
   I am delighted to be joined by Senator FRIST, one of the nation's leading transplant surgeons and the only active surgeon in Congress, as well as Senators EDWARDS, STEVENS, LEVIN, SARBANES, and DURBIN. The bill we offer is a companion bill to H.R. 457, introduced by Representative ELIJAH CUMMINGS and marked out of the House Government Reform Committee. Last year, an identical bill passed the House, but not the Senate. It is my hope that, with such a distinguished list of cosponsors from both sides of the aisle, the Senate will quickly enact this important legislation. 
   In most instances, an organ transplant operation and post-operative recovery time for a living donor is generally six to eight weeks. In order to address the disparity between the available leave a federal employee may take for an organ donation and the average recovery time, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) assisted in the drafting of this legislation to increase the amount of time that may be used for organ donation to 30 days. The amount of leave for a bone marrow donation would remain at seven days because experience shows that a week is considered adequate recovery time form bone marrow donations. 
   Since 1954, when the first kidney transplant was performed, there have been hundreds of patients who have received successful transplants from living donors. Unfortunately, there are not enough organs available and over 55,000 Americans currently wait for a life-saving organ. There are certain organs, such as a single kidney, a lobe of a lung, a segment of the liver, or a portion of the pancreas, which may be transplanted from a living donor. These operations can reduce the mortality of small children needing liver transplants, help another person breathe, or free a dialysis patient from daily treatment. 
   According to the University of Southern California Liver Transplant Program, ``With living donors, liver transplants can be performed electively and before patients get extremely ill, thus leading to better outcomes. Another advantage to this approach is the emotional satisfaction donors share with recipients when a life is saved.'' 
   Our bill has the strong support of the American Transplantation Society, the nation's largest professional transplant organization, representing over 1,400 physicians, surgeons, and scientists. In a letter expressing support of the Organ Donor Leave Act, the AST noted: ``......a lack of leave time has served as a significant impediment and disincentive for individuals willing to share the gift-of-life. This important initiative addresses the disparities between leave time and recovery time.'' According to AST, the bill would give ``......donors the added assurance that they will be granted an adequate amount of time to recuperate from the life-saving process that they undertake voluntarily.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as a member of the Energy Committee and the Governmental Affairs Committee where I am ranking member on the International Security, Proliferation and Federal Services Subcommittee, I have benefited from numerous briefings and extensive hearings on the issues raised in the House select committee's Report on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns With the People's Republic of China. Representative COX and Representative DICKS and their colleagues on the House select committee have done the country a great national service in producing the report. 
   The bipartisan manner in which they conducted their analysis is an example to us all of the importance of placing bipartisanship above political interests for the sake of national security. 
   I was dismayed, as other Members have been, by the extent of Chinese espionage efforts exposed in the committee's report. I wish we could say that American efforts and commitment to countering Chinese espionage were as relentless and as persistent as their ongoing efforts to acquire information from us. 
   Importantly, the President and the entire administration have taken major steps to reform our security at the national nuclear weapons laboratories and to improve our counterintelligence capability. Many of these changes were ordered by the President in February 1998 well before the House Select Committee was formed. 
   Additional measures were taken during the committee's review as the extent of Chinese espionage became apparent. 
   Let me make two cautionary statements: 
   There is a great deal of discussion now in Washington as to whom to blame for the security lapses. There is the usual round of finger-pointing and calls for this or that person to resign. 
   We should not spend all of our time searching for scapegoats. Only our adversaries take solace when we turn on ourselves and become distracted by partisan squabbling. Let us instead focus our attention on improving our security and rooting out those guilty of betraying America. 
   Secondly, let us not sacrifice our efforts to build a constructive relationship with the Chinese people because of our justifiable anger at their government's espionage. 
   Much of what has occurred is to our embarrassment for not being more vigilant. 
   We need to engage China. We have issues and problems that can only be resolved by cooperation. These include bread and butter issues such as reducing our trade deficit and improving market accessibility for American goods. They include global issues such as global warming and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
   The Select Committee's report indicates that, despite international commitments to the contrary, China continues to proliferate weapons of mass destruction. 
   To convince China to cooperate with us in ending the threat of proliferation we will need to engage China. 
   Our foreign visitor's program at the national laboratories has provided us with one opportunity to engage the Chinese on issues such as improving export controls. With enhanced restrictions, these programs should continue. it is our openness to the best scientific minds which aids America in keeping its intellectual edge sharp on the frontiers of science. 
   But engagement is not a one-way street. 
   China needs to demonstrate that it wants to and can engage the United States in a constructive and cooperative manner. 
   China can choose to swamp us either with spies or with friends. The choice is theirs. 
   There is a sense in the country from the revelations contained in the Cox Committee report that the Chinese have ``poisoned the well'' of relations between the United States and China. The report observes that ``the PRC uses a variety of techniques, including espionage, controlled commercial entities, and a network of individuals and organizations that engage in a vast array of contacts with scientists, business people, and academics.'' 
   The report further charges that there are an increasing number of Chinese ``front companies'' in the United States attempting to gain access to our technology and national security secrets. China seems to be almost unchecked in its efforts to gain information on the United States. 
   This view has two detrimental effects. The first effect is on the overall perception of the benefits of relations with China. 
   On June 3, the President took the correct step of renewing normal trade relations with China. But it was a step that China needs to match. With a growing trade imbalance of $57 billion in 1998 out of a total trade of $85.4 billion, China is our fourth largest trading partner. We are also the third largest foreign investor in China. During the Asian financial crisis, American trade with China played a substantial role in keeping the Chinese economy afloat as Chinese exports to the U.S. grew even as Chinese exports to other nations fell. The lesson for China is that we are too important for them to ignore. The lesson for us is that China has become too big for us to ignore. 
   A step in the right direction for both countries is to achieve an agreement on conditions for China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Chinese participation in this international body would be a major leap forward into integrating China in the world economy. Conditions that permit more access for American goods and protection for American investment in China would help accelerate the modernization of the Chinese economy. 
   I think the battle within China over whether or not to participate in the international economy has been won by the advocates of modernization led by President Jiang Zemin and Premier  Zhu Rongji. Granting NTR to China this year will set the stage for a conclusion to the long-running negotiations with China over WTO accession. I support renewal of NTR for China because it is an essential step towards redefining American-Chinese relations in terms of mutual benefit rather than in terms of winner and loser. 
   The second discouraging effect of the report is to taint Asian Americans, especially Chinese Americans, with the stain of suspicion of espionage. This unfair, but very real, perception came through clearly during a recent visit by Energy Secretary Bill Richardson to Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory where one Asian American employee declared, ``we all feel like suspects of espionage.'' Mr. Hoyt Zia, chief counsel for export administration in the Commerce Department, wrote in the New York Times recently about the unfortunate and unwarranted charge that ``Asian-Americans continue to be accused of having dual loyalties to a degree far greater than any other immigrant group to this country.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Yes, it is true, according to our counter intelligence specialists, that Chinese intelligence officers target Chinese Americans and that they also rely on Chinese in the United States who are not American citizens, but it has always been true that foreign intelligence services seek out Americans with similar ethnic backgrounds when trying to establish spy networks. There are numerous examples of this. During the cold war, East German operatives targeted German Americans. From an operational perspective, this only makes sense. 
   It is the job of all Americans to be vigilant, regardless of ethnic background. This is the lesson of the recent concern over national security leaks. We should not overreact or allow ourselves to become sidetracked by unsupported charges that unfairly tarnish any individual or group absent solid evidence. As the recent report about national lab security by a Presidential panel chaired by former Senator Warren Rudman stated, ``enough is enough.'' We need now to sit down, review, improve our security procedures and think seriously anew about our policy towards China. 
   I urge my colleagues in joining me in examining next steps, not our last steps, in an effort to implement security reforms at the national laboratories and to encourage the development of a more effective policy towards the People's Republic of China. 
   I thank the Chair for this time. I, again, ask that we seriously look into our relationship with China. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to support Senate consideration of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and to request unanimous consent that a June 21, 1999, Washington Post article written by Paul H. Nitze and Sidney D. Drell, be printed in the RECORD following my remarks. This article advocates the prompt ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. The United States initially led the global effort to strengthen nuclear nonproliferation when we signed this treaty on September 24, 1996; however, since that time, the Senate has not taken the necessary steps towards ratification. Without the Senate's expeditious approval of this treaty, the United States will be unable to assume a leadership position at the CTBT review conference this September. We will also be undercut in our efforts to urge other countries to ratify this agreement. 
   Both Ambassador Nitze and Mr. Drell have a long and distinguished history of service to both Republican and Democratic presidents. President Reagan awarded Ambassador Nitze the Presidential Medal of Freedom. They both believe that America needs to lead the international effort to halt nuclear proliferation by ratifying the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. I urge my colleagues to read this important article. As the authors note, ``failure to ratify the CTBT would have to be regarded as the greatest disappointment of any Senate, if any time, of any party.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to join the Senator from Mississippi, Mr. COCHRAN, in introducing S. 1232, the Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act. This legislation provides relief to those federal employees who were placed in an incorrect retirement system during the transition to the Federal Employees Retirement System from the Civil Service Retirement System in the mid-1980s. 
   As the ranking Democrat on the International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services Subcommittee, I am committed to correcting the erroneous pension problems facing anywhere from 10,000 to 20,000 individuals. S. 1232 provides a reasonable solution in affording misclassified federal workers, former employees, retirees, and survivors with equitable relief from  these retirement coverage errors. Moreover, the measure gives those affected a choice between corrected retirement coverage and the coverage the employee expected to receive, without disturbing Social Security coverage law. 
   Similar legislation was offered in 1998, and my colleague, the chairman of the Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services, held a hearing on the measure at which officials from the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board testified in support of the bill. 
   I believe this measure addresses the concerns of federal workers who have been placed in the wrong retirement system. It offers a workable and reasonable solution, and I ask my colleagues to support this legislation. I also wish to note that S. 1232 enjoys the support of the Office of Personnel Management and the two largest federal employee unions, the American Federation of Government Employees and the National Treasury Employees Union, that are encouraged by the bipartisan effort that went into crafting this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing a bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to make permanent the visa waiver program for certain visitors to the United States. 
   The visa waiver program has been an unprecedented success in reducing barriers to travel and tourism to and from the United States. The program allows a citizen of a participating country to forego visa application at a U.S. consulate abroad, and allows them to travel to the U.S. for business or pleasure and make application for entry directly to the INS at a port of entry. To use this privilege, an applicant agrees to waive rights to challenge the decision of the INS inspector, and agrees to depart the U.S. within 90 days. More than 10 million visitors used the visa waiver program in fiscal year 1995. This represents 76 percent of the total number of non-immigrant entries by citizens of visa waiver countries. Visitors entering under the visa waiver program accounted for just under 50 percent of all temporary business and tourist entries. 
   In the ten years since the implementation of the visa waiver program, international visitors have become accustomed to the program's requirements, and use it routinely. The program has effectively served the purpose for which it was designed, to facilitate the efficient flow of low-risk foreign tourists and business travelers. Simultaneously, the program has afforded Department of State consular officers more time to focus efforts on individuals who visit the U.S. for other purposes, such as employment or study, or those who intend to remain in the U.S. for extended periods. Further, it has allowed the Department of State to drastically reduce its consular staff at low-risk locations, and strengthen efforts in high risk locations. Yet, all this pales in comparison to the real benefit of the visa waiver program, that of expanded foreign travel and tourism to the U.S. Put simply, the U.S. needs this program to remain competitive with the many other nations around the globe who are competing for the finite pool of business travelers and tourists. 
   In 1996, the World Tourism Organization reported that the United States was the second most popular international tourist destination and the number one location for tourism expenditures. Of the 44.8 million arrivals that year, 12.4 million entered under the visa waiver program. International tourism in the U.S. is a $65 billion enterprise which boosts the economies of many local communities. 
   In my home state of Hawaii, tourism is an $11 billion 
   indusry which generates about one-quarter of the state's tax revenue and one-third of its jobs. It is estimated that 80 percent of all international visitors arriving at Honolulu International Airport arrive under the visa waiver program. We know that the visa waiver program has been very successful because it provides a big boost for Japanese visitors to travel to Hawaii. Our long-term goal for a permanent visa waiver program would be to expand participation of the program in the Asia-Pacific region. Currently, most of the 26 eligible countries are in Europe. Only four of these countries are in the Asia-Pacific region--Australia, Japan, Brunei, and New Zealand. We hope that South Korea and China will be future participants in an expanded program. 
   While the pilot program has been extended periodically since its inception,  its unqualified success justifies a permanent program. Further, because the program's life has at times been uncertain and somewhat unpredictable, particularly at times when an authorization is about to expire, any real or perceived lapse in the program causes needless turmoil and uncertainty among the industry and government both here and abroad and, most important, the traveling public. In the ten years since it commenced, the benefit of the program has been clearly proven, and the need for it to remain a pilot program has ceased. To sunset the program in April 2000 or in the future would require a reinvestment of significant capital, both human and otherwise. In addition, because the visa waiver program is based on reciprocity, any termination or restriction of the program would likely result in a substantial backlash by other participating nations against U.S. citizens traveling abroad, resulting in more entry burdens for U.S. citizens when they attempt to enter other visa waiver countries. 
   Visa waiver participants, by their very definition, are low-risk travelers. There is no data which indicates that visa waiver travelers stay longer than permitted otherwise violate the terms of their admission in any greater numbers than any other population of the traveling public. Another important benefit of the visa waiver program is the standardization of passports and machine readable documentation, which is used as an inducement for acceptance of a country into the program. The ability to read a document by machine has greatly increased the efficiency of the Federal inspection service process. 
   I can say without reservation that this program is a resounding success. It has bolstered the U.S. economy through the expedited admission of millions of legitimate short-term visitors for business, allowing for the negotiation of contracts for the provision of American goods and services to the world. It has provided a welcome boost to the U.S. tourism industry, which employs thousands of American citizens, through the visa-free admission of millions of foreign tourists. We must support permanent reauthorization of this highly effective program. The visa waiver program is not just a win-win situation, it is a win for business, a win for tourism, and a win for effective management of the Department of State. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I have 10 minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to call your attention to a scandal in an American commonwealth. It is a scandal that involves forced labor and sex trade workers. It's not a pretty picture. It is a picture of a tropical paradise destroyed by greed and corruption. 
   In the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, foreign workers have been imported in mass to assemble goods for export to the United States. Taking advantage of loopholes in our immigration and labor laws, foreign businessmen use the Mariana Islands as a base to export garments to the United States. These foreign businessmen pay no export taxes, and their goods are not subject to textile quotas. Their workers are paid below minimum wage levels, if paid at all, and often live in deplorable conditions. 
   Women from Asia and Russia are imported with the promise of high paying jobs in the United States only to find themselves marooned with no means of escape, forced to work as prostitutes in the booming Mariana sex trade. 
   This long-running scandal has been exposed once again by the Global Survival Network. This American-based nongovernmental organization which uncovers human rights violations sent an undercover team to the CNMI to gather evidence on the continued use of forced labor in the commonwealth. They have just issued their report which was the subject of an ABC News segment on ``20/20.'' If you did not see the television broadcast, please read the report which I am sending to every Senator. 
   Entitled ``Trapped: Human Trafficking for Forced Labor in The Commonwealth of The Northern Mariana Islands (a U.S. Territory),'' the report demonstrates in disturbing detail the continued trafficking of humans for indentured labor in factories and sex trade emporiums in the Marianas. Implicating organized crime groups from the People's Republic of China, South Asia, and Japan, the report estimates that there are about 40,000 indentured workers in the CNMI, earning about $160 million in profits for criminal syndicates. 
   Indentured workers are being used to manufacture ostensibly as ``Made in the USA'' garments for export to the United States. None of these goods are required to be shipped to the U.S. on U.S.-flag ships in accordance with the Jones Act. This duty-free, quota-free zone in which foreign workers produce high value goods at below minimum wage is an entirely legal scheme for Chinese and other foreign manufacturers to bypass American textile quotas. 
   The report also graphically details the increasing use of CNMI's loose immigration standards to make this former tropical paradise a major center for the booming Asian sex trade. Women from Asia and Russia are being lured to the Northern Marianas with promises of work opportunities in the United States only to find themselves imprisoned on islands from which there is no escape unless they agree to their employer's demands that they become prostitutes and sex hostesses. This sick trade in prostitution must be stopped. 
   Loopholes in the Immigration and Nationality Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 need to be  plugged as soon as possible. I hope you will join me in ending this deplorable situation in which men and women are being used virtually as slaves on an American commonwealth. 
   Their report makes many important recommendations. Let me call your attention to four key issues which the Congress could and should act upon this year: 
   Extend the Immigration and Nationality Act to the CNMI; 
   Extend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to the CNMI; 
   Revoke the CNMI's ability to use the ``Made in the USA label'' unless more than 75 percent of the labor that goes into the manufacture of the garment comes from U.S. citizens and/or aliens lawfully admitted to the U.S. for permanent residence, and other appropriately legal individuals; and 
   Revoke the CNMI's ability to transport textile goods to the United States free of duties and quotas unless the garments meet the above criteria. 
   This week's report prepared by the Global Survival Network is not the first analysis raising concerns about conditions in the CNMI. In recent years, a chorus of criticism has surfaced about the Commonwealth. 
   For example, the Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that the CNMI has no reliable records of aliens who have entered the Commonwealth, how long they remain, and when, if ever, they depart. A CNMI official testified that they have ``no effective control'' over immigration in their island. 
   The bipartisan Commission on Immigration studied immigration and indentured labor in the CNMI. The Commission called it ``antithetical to American values,'' and announced that no democratic society has an immigration policy like the CNMI. ``The closest equivalent is Kuwait,'' the Commission found. 
   The Department of Commerce found that the territory has become ``a Chinese province'' for garment production. 
   The CNMI garment industry employs 15,000 Chinese workers, some of whom sign contracts that forbid participation in religious or political activities while on U.S. soil. China is exporting its workers, and its human rights policies, to the CNMI. Charges of espionage by China and security lapses in U.S. nuclear weapons labs have justifiably raised serious concerns in Congress. Every Member of Congress should be equally concerned with the imposition of Chinese human rights standards on American soil. 
   The CNMI is becoming an international embarrassment to the United States. We have received complaints from the Philippines, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh about immigration abuses and the treatment of workers. 
   Despite efforts by the Reagan, Bush and Clinton administrations to persuade the CNMI to correct these problems, the situation has only deteriorated. 
   After years of waiting for the CNMI to achieve reform, the time for patience has ended. Conditions in the CNMI are a looming political embarrassment to our country. 
   I urge the Senate to respond by enacting S. 1052, bipartisan reform legislation introduced by my colleagues on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Chairman MURKOWSKI and Senator BINGAMAN. 
   I urge the Senate to move on this measure as quickly as we can. 
   Ms. COLLINS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, last night, the Senator from Alaska and I introduced the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Covenant Implementation Act, legislation to end immigration abuses in a U.S. territory know as the CNMI. This is a bipartisan reform bill, and the changes we propose were supported by the Clinton Administration during the 105th Congress. 
   I commend my colleague from Alaska, Senator MURKOWSKI, for his leadership on CNMI reform. He traveled more than 10,000 miles to get a first-hand understanding of this issue. Our bill responds to the profound problems that we witnessed while visiting the CNMI. 
   The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands located in the far western Pacific. Following World War II, the United States administered the islands under a U.N. Trusteeship. 
   In 1975, the people of the CNMI voted for political union with the United States. Today, the CNMI is a U.S. territory. 
   A 1976 covenant enacted by Congress gave U.S. citizenship to CNMI residents. The covenant also exempted the Commonwealth from U.S. immigration law. This exemption led to the immigration abuses that our bill will correct. 
   I don't represent the CNMI, but the Commonwealth is in Hawaii's backyard. I speak as a friend and neighbor when I say that conditions in the CNMI must change. The CNMI system of indentured immigrant labor is morally wrong, and violates basic democratic principles. 
   The CNMI shares the American flag, but it does not share our immigration system. When the Commonwealth became a territory of the United States, we allowed them to write their own immigration laws. After twenty years of experience, we know that the CNMI immigration experiment has failed. 
   Conditions in the CNMI prompt the question whether the United States should operate a unified system of immigration, or whether a U.S. territory should be allowed to establish laws in conflict with national immigration policy. 
   Common sense tells us that a unified system is the only answer. If Puerto Rico, or Hawaii, or Arizona, or Oklahoma could write their own immigration laws--and give work visas to foreigners--our national immigration system would be in chaos. 
   America is one country. We need a uniform immigration system, rather than one system for the 50 states and another system for one of our territories. 
   There is a mountain of evidence proving just how bad the CNMI situation has become. Let me cite a few examples: 
   Twenty years ago, the CNMI had a population of 15,000 citizens and 2,000 alien workers. Today, the citizen population has increased to 28,000. Yet the alien worker population has mushroomed to 42,000--a 2000 percent increase. Three to four thousand of these alien workers are illegal aliens. 
   The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that the CNMI has no reliable records of aliens who have entered the Commonwealth, how long they remain, and when, if ever, they depart. A CNMI official testified that they have ``no effective control'' over immigration in their island. 
   The bipartisan Commission on Immigration studied immigration and indentured labor in the CNMI. The Commission called it ``antithetical to American values,'' and announced that no democratic society has an immigration policy like the CNMI. ``The closest equivalent is Kuwait,'' the Commission found. 
   The Department of Commerce found that the territory has become ``a Chinese province'' for garment production. The CNMI garment industry employs 15,000 Chinese workers, some of whom sign contracts that forbid participation in religious or political activities while on U.S. soil. China is exporting their workers, and their human rights policies, to the CNMI. 
   The CNMI is becoming an international embarrassment to the United States. We have received complaints from the Philippines, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh about immigration abuses and the treatment of workers.  
   Despite efforts by the Reagan, Bush and Clinton Administrations to persuade the CNMI to correct these problems, the situation has only deteriorated. 
   My colleagues, the Senator from Alaska and I have been patient. After years of waiting, the time for patience has ended. Conditions in the CNMI are a looming political embarrassment to our country. I urge the Senate to respond by enacting the reform legislation we have introduced. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today marks the 116th birthday of Dr. George Papanicolaou, who developed one of the most effective cancer screening tests in medical history--the Pap smear. Cervical cancer was one of the leading causes of cancer deaths in women in the United States 50 years ago and it is still a major killer of women worldwide. I rise today to introduce the Investment in Women's Health Care Act, a bipartisan bill to increase the reimbursement for Pap smear laboratory tests under the Medicare program. I am pleased to be joined by my colleagues--Senators SNOWE, MURRAY and COLLINS. 
   The inadequacy of current lab test reimbursement was brought to my attention by pathologists who alerted me to the significant cost-payment differential for Pap smear testing in Hawaii. According to the American Pathology Foundation, Hawaii is one of the 23 States where the cost of performing the test greatly exceeds the Medicare payment. In Hawaii, the cost ranges between $13.04 and $15.80. Yet the Medicare reimbursement rate is only $7.15. 
   The large disparity between the reimbursement level and the actual cost of performing the test may force labs in Hawaii and around the Nation to discontinue Pap smear testing. The below-cost reimbursement may compel some labs to process tests faster and in higher volume to improve cost efficiency. This situation increases the risk of inaccurate results and can severely handicap patient outcomes. 
   This bill would increase the a reimbursement rate for Pap smear labwork from its current $7.15 to $14.60--the national average cost of the test. This rate is important because it establishes a benchmark for many private insurers. 
   Last year, we were successful in having language included in the omnibus appropriations conference report recognizing the large disparity between the costs incurred to provide the screening tests and the amount paid by Medicare. The conferees noted that data from laboratories nationwide indicates that the cost of providing the test averages $13.00 to $17.00, with the costs in some areas being higher. Accordingly, conferees urged the Health Care Financing Administration to increase Medicare reimbursement for Pap smear screening. Although HCFA has indicated a willingness to increase this payment, I am concerned that the adjustment the agency is considering may be significantly less than the costs incurred by most laboratories in providing this service. Therefore, my colleagues and I are compelled to reintroduce legislation that would implement what we believe to be an appropriate increase. 
   Mr. President, no other cancer screening procedure is as effective for early detection of cancer as the Pap smear. Over the last 50 years, the incidence of cervical cancer deaths has declined by 70 percent due in large part to the use of this cancer detection measure. Evidence shows that the likelihood of survival when cervical cancer is detected in its earliest stage is almost 100 percent, if treatment and follow-up is timely. If the Pap smear is to continue as an effective cancer screening tool, it must remain widely available and reasonably priced for all women. Adequate payment is necessary to ensure women's continued access to quality Pap smears. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990430</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the work and accomplishments of a team of individuals in Hawaii who have been honored by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) as 1999 ``Environmental Heroes.'' We seldom take the time to recognize the outstanding accomplishments of those working at the community level, with high school students, far from Washington, D.C. Their dedication can make a big difference in people's lives and the health of our environment. 
   Honored in Hawaii were Hawaii Sea Grant's Extension Director Bruce Miller, Hawaii State Representative Brian Schatz, and Youth for Environment Service Coordinator Sean Casey. 
   This marks the third year that NOAA has recognized individuals and organizations throughout the United States for their ``tireless efforts to preserve and protect the nation's environment.'' The 1999 NOAA Class of Environmental Heroes included 34 individuals or programs, and the honorees are traditionally announced as part of Earth Day activities nationwide. Each honoree was also sent personal commendations from Vice President Al Gore who congratulated this year's heroes for their commitment and accomplishments in protecting the environment of our nation. 
   The Hawaii team was recognized for their creation of Youth for Environmental Service, called YES. The YES program educates and engages K-12 students in discussions of local environmental issues and activities that sustain the environment. YES gives students a chance to get involved through projects such as restoring trails, planting trees, picking up litter from beaches and streams, and more. To date, YES has given presentations to more than 65,000 students in 450 schools, involved 25,000 students in environmental community service projects, removed 20 tons of debris from Honolulu streams, restored one mile of the most used hiking trail on Oahu; planted approximately 2,000 plants, cleaned 40 beaches, stenciled more than 2,500 storm drains with a ``Dump No Waste'' message, and organized more than 350 other community service projects. 
   The YES project is an excellent example of the partnering of extension and educational goals through the University of Hawaii's Sea Grant Program. Mr. President, I extend my warmest congratulations to our three Hawaii Environmental Heroes.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, along with my senior colleague from Hawaii, Senator DAN INOUYE, today I am introducing legislation to authorize designation of the Ala Kahakai (``Trail by the Sea''), on the Island of Hawaii, as a National Historic Trail. 
   The Ala Kahakai is the modern name for an approximately 175-mile portion of the ancient shoreline footpath, the Ala Loa (``Long Trail''), that once circumscribed the island of Hawaii. The Ala Loa served as the major land route connecting more than 600 communities of the island kingdom of Hawaii between the 15th and 18th centuries. It is associated with many prehistoric and historic housing areas, most of the royal centers and temples of the island, a number of major battles, and the facilitation of government functions such as tax collection. 
   Of more recent significance, a key section of the trail is associated with the series of events that unfolded between 1779 and 1820 that had lasting consequences for Hawaiian cultural evolution: Captain Cook's landing and subsequent death at Kealakekua Bay in 1779; Kamehameha's rise to power and consolidation of the Hawaiian Islands under monarchical rule; the death of Kamehameha I in 1819, followed by the overthrow of the ancient religious system, the kapu: and, finally, the arrival of the first Western missionaries in 1820. 
   Interest in preserving this important Hawaiian cultural legacy has been growing since the 1970s, when the State of Hawaii began developing Na Ala Hele (``Trails for Walking''), a proposal for cooperative management of the statewide trail system. I 1988, the concept evolved into the Hawaii Statewide Trail and Access System, whose mission is to develop trail access while conserving Hawaii's environmental and cultural heritage. 
   The Na Ala Hele planning process called for the development of a demonstration trail for each of Hawaii's major islands, including a 35-mile demonstration trail on the Big Island of Hawaii. In introduced legislation (P.L. 120-361) in 1992 proposing that NPS study whether an expanded, 175-mile version of the Big Island trail, the Ala Kahakai, should be incorporated into the National Trails System. 
   Pursuant to P.L. 120-461, the National Park Service undertook a study to evaluate the desirability and feasibility of establishing the Ala Kahakai as a national trail. In January 1998, after a long process of consultation with federal, state, local authorities and other interests, and after a period of public review, the study (``Ala Kahakai National Trail Study and Final Environmental Impact Statement'') was completed. In August 1998, the Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of the National Park System Advisory Board, endorsed the study's principle recommendation that the Ala Kahakai be designated a National Historic Trail. 
   According to the study, the trail meets all of the three criteria for historic trail designation. To wit: it must be a trail or route established by historic use and must be historically significant as result of that use; it must be of national significance with respect to any of several broad facets of American history, such as trade and commerce, exploration, migration and settlement, or military campaigns; and, it must have significant potential for public recreational use or historical interest based on historic interpretation and appreciation.  
   In addition, the study suggested that the trail not only qualifies for designation as a National Historic Trail, but that it has the potential to be designated a National Scenic Trail (although to do so would trivialize its historical and cultural significance) and may well be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. 
   The study presented four alternatives for the management of the Ala Kahakai: (a) no action, (b) a national historic trail (continuous), (c) a state historic trail, and a national historic trail (discontinuous)--ultimately recommending alternative ``b'' as the best means to preserve and restore the trail and maximize public access to the entire route. The preferred alternative assumes recognition of a continuous route that, over time, could become continuous on the ground. 
   It is fairly clear that reestablishing the 175-mile route is physically possible. Although some parts of the trail have been covered by lava, eroded by tides, or otherwise sustained damage from natural and human processes, these sections can be bridged through recreational trail links. In some cases, the trail can be rebuilt using traditional construction methods. 
   About half (93 miles, or 53 percent) of the proposed trail is in local, state, or federal government ownership, and 82 miles cross private lands. Of the latter, 16 miles have been dedicated, through planning requirements, as public land. Of the remaining 66 miles of trail on private lands, as much as 35 miles are classified as ``ancient trail'' and thus claimable as state-owned under Hawaiian law. For the remaining sections of trail that are not ancient trail, or for which the state's claim has been forfeited in some way, landowner participation would be entirely voluntary. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which is key to preserving and interpreting an important Hawaiian legacy that is threatened by time, neglect, and modern activity. The Ala Kahakai boasts more cultural and historical resources than any other trail in the National Trails System. Its designation as a national historic trail would help us preserve one of the most important and evocative legacies of Hawaii's indigenous history and culture. I hope that Congress will act quickly on this measure, to ensure that the trail can be developed as a resource for all Americans to enjoy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I would like to speak on the emergency supplemental and rescissions bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-2-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Texas for yielding me this time. I want her to know that I will be speaking on the emergency supplemental and rescissions bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-3-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I certainly would accept that, and I thank my friend from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-4-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to express my concern on the FY 1999 emergency supplemental and rescissions bill. I support disaster relief for Central America and the Caribbean, emergency relief for America's farmers in crisis, and aid to Jordan to implement the Wye River agreement. It is important that these priorities be funded. 
   My concern is that one of the budget offsets to pay for this bill pits these important foreign and domestic needs against the needs of the country's poorest families--something that Hawaii's poorest families can ill afford. This supplemental bill seeks to defer $350 million in funding from ``unobligated balances'' under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program until fiscal year 2001. The language in the bill requires deferral of portions of states' unobligated TANF funds. 
   The deferral is based on the states' share of total unobligated funds. Preliminary estimates show this means Hawaii would not be able to spend about $800,000 of its TANF funds until fiscal year 2001. 
   It is my understanding that my friend from Alaska, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator STEVENS, is working to find a different offset so that the $350 million in TANF funds will not have to be deferred. I strongly encourage him in these efforts and urge that this be done. 
   In the meantime, we all know that TANF replaced the Aid to Families with Dependent Children welfare program in 1996. I am a critic of the TANF Program for failing to provide an adequate safety net for low-income families. However, I am adamant that full funding must continue to go to the states to assist welfare families and their children. No part of it should be deferred to offset supplemental spending. 
   The term ``unobligated,'' may seem self-explanatory. Anyone may think that a $350 million deferral of unobligated funds under the bill would apply to funds that have simply not been spent under this program. Proponents would argue that welfare rolls have fallen so far that this money is not needed by states, which is why it remains unobligated. However, Mr. President, we know that funding decisions by state and local governments take time. Transfers of expenditures must go through a process. States often commit funding to counties and local governments that is not transferred immediately, so the amount is not taken off the states' books. 
   The fact is many states rely heavily on these unobligated funds and have already committed them for a wide variety of uses, such as distribution to counties and local agencies, ``rainy day'' funds for contingencies such as economic downturns that swell the rolls and leave states without enough money until the next federal payment, transfers into child care and social services activities, or other basic expenses to help low-income families become self-sufficient. 
   My state of Hawaii continues to plan uses for all available funds to provide child care services to our TANF families so that they can be given a chance to continue at their jobs and make it work. Hawaii is doing this the right way, instead of simply looking at the numbers and acting to drop welfare recipients off their rolls. Hawaii is truly ``teaching them to fish,'' so that they truly achieve self sufficiency. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-5-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. To use TANF funding as an offset abrogates this agreement. I hope my colleagues, the appropriators, are working to keep this agreement intact. Hawaii and other states need this money to assist poor families. 
   And of all states, Hawaii needs assistance the most. 
   Mr. President, our Nation is enjoying the longest peacetime expansion in American history--yet Hawaii is not benefiting from this expansion. While the country is enjoying the lowest unemployment in nearly 30 years and tremendous job creation, Hawaii is losing jobs and its people are having a difficult time finding work at a living wage. Our unemployment rate is at 5.7 percent as of November 1998--well above the country's average of 4.3 percent. Bankruptcy filings increased more than 30 percent form 1997 to 1998. Retail sales fell 7 percent from $16.3 billion in 1997 to $15.2 billion in 1998. These are some recent economic indicators. Hawaii has been suffering from an economic downturn for most of this decade. As if this were not enough, my state has had to endure the worst of all states from the economic crisis in Asia. The Aloha State welcomed 11 percent fewer tourists from Japan and other parts of Asia in 1998. If anything should be slated for emergency funding, Hawaii should. 
   With all of this need, you can see why $800,000 in TANF funding means a lot to my state. The number of families in Hawaii receiving assistance under this program has increased since the new law was passed. According to the Hawaii Department of Human Services, as of January, 1999, 16,575 single-parent families and 7,119 two-parent families were on the rolls, for a total of 23,694 families receiving assistance. This represents an increase of more than 2,000 families since 1995 when the number of families receiving assistance was 21,480. Hawaii's numbers have increased because of the tough economic conditions we are now enduring. 
   Hawaii needs every bit of our TANF funding to make sure that our poor families continue to be self-sufficient. This is stated in the letter I submitted earlier from Governor Cayetano. We have not put our unobligated balances aside for a rainy day fund because we do not have enough of it--we need to use every dollar we have for caseloads now. 
   Once again, I urge my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee and the gentleman from Alaska, Chairman STEVENS, to continue working to find another $350 million offset for this emergency supplemental bill, rather than defer much-needed TANF funds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-6-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. I thank the Chair. I thank the Senator from Texas for yielding me time. 
   Mr. GORTON addressed the Chair.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise in support of an amendment to be offered by my colleagues from Washington and Massachusetts, Senators MURRAY and KENNEDY, to S. 280, the Education Flexibility Partnership Act of 1999. The amendment represents a true investment in education, as well as in the future of our Nation and my State of Hawaii. 
   Built on a bipartisan agreement passed last year, the amendment seeks to reduce class size in early grades through the hiring of additional well-qualified teachers. This would mean more individualized attention for students from their teachers, increased learning in the basics that will immeasurably help them in future grades, and a better chance at success from an early age. 
   I also support other amendments to be offered to S. 280. One will be offered by my colleague, the senior Senator from New Jersey, Mr. LAUTENBERG, regarding an equally vital school modernization initiative. I have spoken in support of this initiative in the past. This plan would finance the building and renovation of public schools through tax credits in lieu of interest on bonds. Hawaii would receive tax credits to support $50 million in school modernization. 
   The other amendment that will be offered by Senator BOXER to help communities fund afterschool programs for kindergarten, elementary, and secondary school students will be one that I will support. This will help keep students off the streets after school, for too many youths in my State are left with nothing to do but turn to drugs, alcohol, gangs and other destructive behaviors. And this happens also in other States. 
   These amendments have my full support. 
   Now I would like to focus my remarks on the class size amendment. I commend my colleagues for supporting the first installment of the 7-year class size reduction proposal last year. We passed $1.2 billion in 1998 to hire 30,000 teachers. Under this spending, Hawaii will receive more than $5.6 million. We must pass the Murray-Kennedy amendment to finish the job and assure that the teachers hired under last year's downpayment will continue to be funded. 
   This amendment would provide $1.4 billion in fiscal year 2000 to hire 38,000 teachers, which would give Hawaii nearly $7 million for 178 teachers. So this is something that Hawaii really looks forward to. 
   Students in my State need these well-qualified, well-trained teachers. I hear from students, parents, and teachers alike that classes are too large. The average size of a class in Hawaii is in the mid-twenties. However, research shows that the optimum number of students in a class, particularly lower grades, is in the mid- to upper-teens. 
   Among other problems, larger classes create discipline problems, especially in communities with large numbers of at-risk children. If we want to give our students the best possible chance to learn, they need smaller classes and teachers who are able to give them enough personal attention. 
   In addition to helping students, this amendment would also help Hawaii's teachers. As a former teacher, I have taught both small and large classes. I have taught in different kinds of systems. I know when students are grasping ideas. And we know when they are not. One of the most rewarding things a teacher can experience is to see the faces of students light up when they realize they have learned something new. When there are too many students in a class and only one teacher to supervise them, the result is a difficult and poor learning environment. 
   Mr. President, I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me in voting for this class size amendment. It makes sense to focus our efforts this way on students during their early grades, because these represent some of the most vital years in a child's educational development. We must give our children a rock-solid foundation in the basics so they may continue to build a strong base of knowledge throughout their educational history. We know that well-educated children will mean a great citizenry for the future of our country. 
   I thank my colleagues, Senators MURRAY and KENNEDY, for giving me this opportunity and this chance to speak on their amendment at this most important time in the history of our country. 
   Thank you very much, Mr. President. I yield back the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. ABRAHAM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Downed Animal Protection Act, a bill to eliminate inhumane and improper treatment of downed animals at stockyards. The legislation prohibits the sale or transfer of downed animals unless they have been humanely euthanized. 
   Downed animals are severely distressed recumbent animals that are too sick to rise or move on their own. Once an animal becomes immobile, it must remain where it has fallen, often without receiving the most basic assistance. Downed animals that survive the stockyard are slaughtered for human consumption. 
   These animals are extremely difficult, if not impossible, to handle humanely. They have very demanding needs, and must be fed and watered individually. The suffering of downed animals is so severe that the only humane solution to their plight is immediate euthanasia. 
   Mr. President, the bill I introduce today requires that these hopelessly sick and injured animals be euthanized by humane methods that rapidly an effectively render animals insensitive to pain. Humane euthanasia of downed animals will limit animal suffering and will encourage the livestock industry to concentrate on improved management and handling practices to avoid this problem. 
   Downed animals compromise a tiny fraction, less than one-tenth of one percent, of animals at stockyards. Banning their sale or transfer would cause no economic hardship. The Downed Animal Protection Act will prompt stockyards to refuse crippled and distressed animals, and will make the prevention of downed animals a priority for the livestock industry. The bill will reinforce the industry's commitment to humane handling of animals. 
   The problem of downed animals has been addressed by major livestock organizations such as the United Stockyards Corp., the Minnesota Livestock Marketing Association, the National Pork Producers Council, the Colorado Cattlemen's Association, and the Independent Cattlemen's Association of Texas. All of these organizations have taken strong stands against improper treatment of animals by adopting ``no-downer'' policies. I want to commend these and other organizations, as well  as responsible and conscientious livestock producers throughout the country, for their efforts to end an appalling problem that erodes consumer confidence. 
   Despite a strong consensus within industry, the animal welfare movement, consumers, and government that downed animals should not be sent to stockyards, this sad problem continues, causing animal suffering and an erosion of public confidence in the industry. 
   Mr. President, this legislation will complement industry effort to address this problem by encouraging better care of animals at farms and ranches. Animals with impaired mobility will receive better treatment in order to prevent them from becoming incapacitated. The bill will remove the incentive for sending downed animals to stockyards in the hope of receiving some salvage value for the animals and would encourage greater care during loading and transport. The bill will also discourage improper breeding practices that account for most downed animals. 
   My legislation would set a uniform national standard, thereby removing any unfair advantages that might result from differing standards throughout the industry. Furthermore, no additional bureaucracy will be needed as a consequence of my bill because inspectors of the Packers and Stockyards Administration regularly visit stockyards to enforce existing regulations. Thus, the additional burden on the agency and stockyard operators will be insignificant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. Chief Justice and esteemed colleagues, I rise to offer my thoughts on the momentous decision we will render shortly. At the start, I deeply regret that the American people have been denied the opportunity to hear the Senate's final deliberations on the impeachment charges against President Clinton. I say this because I have been thoroughly impressed with the thought, tenor, and passion brought to this deliberation by my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. I wish the American people could have the opportunity to observe what I have had the privilege of witnessing for the past two days. Whether seated in the gallery, watching on television, listening on radio, or following on-line, the public would have benefitted tremendously from the opportunity to hear, in real time and full context each of our remarks. The opportunity to read a transcript later this week in the RECORD will not come close to viewing these proceedings. It lacks the power of the moment. 
   when I took the oath to do impartial justice on January 7, 1999, I knew, as one of 100 Senators, that I was assuming the unique role of judge and juror in the Senate impeachment trial of William Jefferson Clinton. Over these weeks, I have listened to the presentations by the House Managers, the White House counsel, and the President's defense team without prejudice. I have analyzed the video testimony of Monica Lewinsky, Vernon Jordan, and Sidney Blumenthal, and read numerous grand jury transcripts, the referral from the Independent Counsel, and the House report and related documents. 
   The House of Representatives approved two articles of impeachment by straight party line votes after bitter and divisive partisan debate, forwarding to the Senate the impeachment articles to remove the President of the United States as authorized by the Constitution. At the same time, the partisan nature of the House action invites challenge to its legitimacy. And, although we have more often than not voted along party lines during the impeachment trial, I am proud of this body and its genuine effort to pursue a bipartisan course during our trial of the President. We have disagreed without being disagreeable. 
   The body has not strayed too far from the comity and tone that marked our first bipartisan caucus to set the framework for this proceeding. 
   We have taken the admonition of the senior Senator from West Virginia to heart and avoided descending into the pit of caustic partisanship and recrimination. 
   After reviewing volumes of evidence and weighing weeks of presentations before the Senate, I have concluded that a case has not been made on either of the articles of impeachment against President Clinton. Conviction and removal from office, as charged by the House Managers, is simply not warranted. 
   The record does not sustain the level of proof necessary to convict and remove the President. Certain facts are indisputable: the President lied to the American people and to his wife and daughter about an extramarital affair; he lied to his staff; and he was misleading in his deposition in the Jones v. Clinton civil suit and his grand jury testimony. 
   However, impeachment is not a Constitutional means to punish a President ``when he gets out of bounds,'' as proposed by the House Managers. The constitutional standard is whether high crimes and misdemeanors were committed, and that test has not been met. 
   In 1974, the House Judiciary Committee rejected an article of impeachment against President Nixon based on the filing of a false tax return. I was reasoned that the President's misleading tax return was unrelated to his duties as president, although a minority believed the count was unsupported by the evidence. Thus we see that all crimes that may be punishable by the courts are not punishable by impeachment. 
   Rather, impeachment is narrowly limited by the Constitution to offenses of treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. 
   After listening to many presentations on this issue, I am convinced that impeachment and removal from office should only be used for crimes against the country or threats to our national security. 
   Our founding fathers carefully defined the terms of impeachment in a manner that establishes a high threshold and requires the charges to be of an egregious nature. That is why the Senate has only once before held an impeachment trial for a President. 
   The House Managers recommend impeachment because it is the only way in which the President's misconduct can be punished. Yet, I remind my colleagues that the President remains subject to criminal and civil penalties after he leaves office in two years. 
   As I will point out, the facts and other evidence accumulated and presented to the Senate do not meet the constitutional standard for impeachment and removal that our founding fathers established. 
   Article One charges the President with perjury before the grand jury in August 1998, for willfully giving false testimony under oath in a judicial proceeding. Yet to prove this charge the House Managers introduced material from the Jones suit during their Senate presentation even though the House rejected an article of impeachment dealing with Paula Jones suit. Nonetheless, despite this blurring of the lines between criminal and civil matters, a perjury conviction requires that the testimony be material to the case at hand. Judge Susan Webber Wright's rulings in the Jones case specifically excluded evidence concerning Monica Lewinsky because it was immaterial. 
   Furthermore, Thomas Sullivan, former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, testified before the House Judiciary Committee that perjury ``can be particularly arcane, including the requirements that the government prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knew his testimony to be false at the time he or she testified, that the alleged false testimony was material, and that any ambiguity or uncertainty about what the question or answer meant must be construed in favor of the defendant.'' Mr. Sullivan also noted that generally, ``federal prosecutors do not use the criminal process in connection with civil litigation involving private parties,'' because, ``there are well established remedies available to civil litigants who believe perjury or obstruction has occurred.'' 
   Article Two charges the President with seven different instances of obstruction of justice. The House Managers insist that the evidence shows  that these separate acts constitute a deliberate attempt by the President to obstruct justice. The White House argues that the President did not seek to influence witnesses nor impede discovery. Legal scholars have argued that the lumping together of these seven charges would cause most courts to throw out the charges, and witness testimony undermines the House charges. After the smoke cleared from the charges and countercharges, it was evident to me that the connections between the actions of the President and the actions by the witnesses were circumstantial, at best. 
   Moreover, I agree with White House counsel Charles F. Ruff, who in his closing arguments said of the House Managers, ``I believe their vision to be too dark, a vision too little attuned to the needs of the people, too little sensitive to the needs of our democracy.'' 
   In the obstruction of justice count, the Managers charge the President with asking Monica Lewinsky to lie, a charge that she denies in two dozen depositions, and testimony given under the protection of immunity. There is no evidence that the President ever asked her to provide a false affidavit in the Jones case or to testify falsely. Vernon Jordan, the President's close friend and advisor, testified that although he met with Ms. Lewinsky and was given a draft of the affidavit, he refused to review the document and referred the young woman to her attorney for advice and counsel. 
   The House Managers say the President is guilty of obstructing justice when he ordered his secretary, Betty Currie, to retrieve gifts given by the President to Monica Lewinsky. However, Ms. Lewinsky's testimony, on a number of occasions, indicates that it was she who asked Mrs. Currie to keep the gifts, not the President. 
   The House states that the President asked Vernon Jordan to intensify an on-going job search in Ms. Lewinsky's behalf after Judge Webber Wright ruled that Paula Jones's attorney could investigate the President's sexual relations with state or federal employees. 
   Mr. Jordan and Ms. Lewinsky first met in November 1997, a month before Ms. Lewinsky was listed as a witness in the Jones case. Sinister motives do not appear to be involved in the inquiries by Mr. Jordan on her behalf that led to two job rejections and one job offer. Efforts by the House Managers to link the job search and the affidavit unravel when the dates on which Mr. Jordan and Ms. Lewinsky first met, when Ms. Lewinsky's name first appeared on the Paula Jones case witness list, and the drafting of the affidavit are analyzed. 
   The President, Ms. Lewinsky, and Mr. Jordan have testified that no one was seeking Ms. Lewinsky's silence, and Ms. Lewinsky further testified that she realized in October 1997 that she would not be returning to the White House for employment and she renewed her job search in New York City. 
   The additional testimonies of Ms. Lewinsky, Mr. Jordan, and Mr. Blumenthal added no new information to the case against the President. I voted against deposing these witnesses since they already had been deposed many times. 
   Moreover, we each received thousands of pages of testimony from the grand jury, various depositions, statements given under oath, and documents relating to the impeachment charges. We know that Ms. Lewinsky had been questioned on at least 23 separate occasions, including after the President's grand jury testimony and as recently as January 22, 1999, by the House prosecutors before testifying February 1, 1999, on video. During arguments in favor of deposing Ms. Lewinsky, House Manager BRYANT urged the deposition because he believed the Senate should observe her demeanor, her tone, and her tenor in responding to questions. 
   I respectfully disagreed with Mr. BRYANT then, as I do now. My decision was bolstered when I viewed Ms. Lewinsky's videotaped testimony in which she reaffirmed her grand jury testimony. I saw no purpose in bringing her to the witness table again, nor Mr. Jordan, who had been questioned five times, nor Mr. Blumenthal, who has answered questions under oath four times. These witnesses did not change their testimonies, nor did they provide information that was omitted in previous testimony. 
   The witnesses' statements are a matter of record, and they comprise thousands of pages encompassed in the volumes of testimony and sworn affidavits that are the basis of the House articles of impeachment. I concur with House majority counsel David Schippers who said during the House Judiciary impeachment proceedings, ``As it stands, all of the factual witnesses are uncontradicted and amply corroborated.'' 
   In conclusion, I cannot overstate my disappointment with the actions of the President. He deliberately misled the American people and greatly diminished the public's trust in the office of the presidency. However, I have concluded that the two articles of impeachment, as drafted and presented by the House, fail to meet the level of high crimes and misdemeanors, and I will vote to acquit the President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, on behalf of Senators LOTT, LANDRIEU, CRAIG, and GRAHAM I am introducing the Methane Hydrate Research and Development Act of 1999. 
   Methane hydrates are rigid, ice-like solids of water surrounding a gas molecule. They remain solid at high pressure and low temperature. Such conditions are found in Arctic permafrost and in deep sea sediments. Methane hydrate has tremendous gas storage capacity: one volume of methane hydrate will expand to more than 160 volumes of methane under normal temperature and pressure conditions. 
   The data on this unlikely resource will surprise you. We are only beginning to quantify and characterize methane hydrate resources. Fundamental research on methane hydrates is urgently needed to serve our long-term energy supply needs, create short-term advances in conventional fuel extraction, and further the science of global climate change. 
   Significant, widespread quantities of gas hydrates have been detected, but not characterized, all over the world. In the United States, on-shore Arctic deposits are found in Alaska. Deep sea methane hydrate deposits are perhaps the most abundant source of methane, occurring at depths greater than 300 meters. Marine geologists have identified large deposits off the coasts of most of the U.S., including Alaska, Louisiana, Texas, New Jersey, Oregon, and North and South Carolina. However, we know very little about the quantity and nature of these deposits. 
   Worldwide, the estimated amount of methane trapped in gas hydrate form is 10,000 gigatons--twice the amount of carbon found in all other fossil fuels on Earth. This represents close to 3,000 times the amount of methane present in the atmosphere. Scientists estimate that 320,000 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of natural gas exists in hydrate form in the U.S.--a staggering resource. By comparison, we have an estimated reserve of 1,300 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of 
   conventional natural gas. 
   The potential of methane hydrates as an energy resource is best described in terms of consumption. The U.S. consumes 22 trillion cubic feet of natural gas per year; U.S. gas reserves will likely supply gas for approximately 60 years at current consumption rates. However, gas consumption is expected to rise dramatically in the future. If the hydrate resource can be harvested, the amount of natural gas found in one deposit off the Carolina would satisfy our natural gas needs for over 70 years. 
   Can we produce natural gas from these vast reserves? Natural gas from methane hydrates will never be realized unless we undertake a serious methane hydrates research program. The U.S. is not doing enough to explore this exciting new energy source. Other nations, primarily Japan and India, have launched aggressive R&D programs to explore methane hydrates. Some believe that Japanese commercial production is only a decade away. Clearly we are falling behind in our efforts to understand this energy source. In the face of dwindling energy resources and increased reliance on energy imports, we can hardly afford to miss this important opportunity. 
   In addition to potential use as an energy source, methane hydrate deposits also represent a challenge to conventional oil and gas extraction. Hydrates influence physical properties of ocean sediments, particularly strength and stability. Characterizing hydrate formation and breakdown is important for the safety of deep offshore drilling and other deep sea operations. 
   Release of large quantities of methane to the atmosphere from hydrate deposits, and the sequestration methane in hydrate form, can also have significant effects on global climate change. The importance of the process in global climate regulation is relatively unknown, and demands investigation. 
   Even though this resource accounts for more potential energy than all other conventional fuels combined, has attracted significant foreign investment, challenges conventional oil and gas production, and holds unknown secrets about global climate, the Department of Energy budget is limited to $500,000 in FY 1999. 
   My bill establishes a small research and development program with the potential for major payback. It would direct the Department of Energy to conduct research and development in collaboration with the U.S. Geological Survey, National Science Foundation, and the Naval Research Laboratory. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to reintroduce legislation I authored during the 105th Congress that would adjust the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) rate for Hawaii to reflect more fairly the state's ability to bear its share of Medicaid payments. 
   The federal share of Medicaid payments varies depending on each state's ability to pay--wealthier states bear a larger share of the cost of the program, and thus have lower FMAP rates. Per capita income is used as the measure of state wealth. Because per capita income in Hawaii is quite high, the state's FMAP rate is at the lowest level--50 percent. Hawaii is one of only a dozen states whose FMAP rate is at the 50 percent level. My bill would increase Hawaii's FMAP rate from 50 percent to 59.8 percent. 
   Because of our geographic location and other factors, the cost of living in Hawaii greatly exceeds the cost of living on the mainland. Per capita income is a poor measure of a state's ability to bear the cost of Medicaid services. An excellent analysis of this issue appears in the 21st edition of The Federal Budget and the States, a joint study conducted by the Taubman Center for State and Local Government at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government and the office of U.S. Senator DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN. According to the study, if per capita income is measured in real terms, Hawaii ranks 47th at $19,755 compared to the national average of $24,231. This sheds a totally different light on the state's financial status. 
   The cost of living in Honolulu is 83 percent higher than the average of the metropolitan areas tracked by the U.S. Census Bureau, based on 1995 data. Recent studies have shown that for the state as a whole, the cost of living is more than one-third higher than the rest of the U.S. In fact, Hawaii's Cost of Living Index ranks it as the highest in the country. Some government programs take the high cost of living in Hawaii into account and funding is adjusted accordingly. These include Medicare prospective payment rates, food stamp allocations, school lunch programs, housing insurance limits, and military living expenses. 
   These examples reflect the recognition that the higher cost of living in noncontiguous states should be taken into account in fashioning government policies. It is time for similar recognition of this factor in gauging Hawaii's ability to support its health care programs. My colleagues may recall that the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 included a provision increasing Alaska's FMAP rate to 59.8 percent. Setting a higher match rate would still leave Hawaii with a lower FMAP rate than a majority of the states, but would more accurately reflect Hawaii's ability to pay its fair share of the costs of the Medicaid program. 
   Despite the high cost of living, the Harvard-Moynihan study finds that Hawaii also has one of the highest poverty rates in the nation. The State's 16.9 percent poverty rate is eighth in the country, compared to the national average of 14.7 percent. These higher costs are reflected in state government expenditures and state taxation. Thus, on a per capita basis, state revenue and expenditures are far higher in Hawaii and Alaska, than in the 48 mainland states. The higher expenditure levels are necessary to assure an adequate level of public services which are more costly to provide in these states. 
   Of the top ten states with the highest poverty rates in the country, the Harvard-Moynihan study finds that only three others have an FMAP rate between 50-60 percent. The other six states have FMAP rates of 65 percent and higher. Even more astonishing is that of the top ten states with the lowest real per capita income, only Hawaii has a 50 percent FMAP rate. 
   To bring equity to this situation, Hawaii has sought an increase in its FMAP rate over the past several years. Just as we did for Alaska in 1997, Hawaii deserves equitable treatment. This change is long warranted. The same factors justifying an increase for Alaska apply to Hawaii. Recognition of this point was made by House and Senate conferees to the Balanced Budget Act. The conferees noted that poverty guidelines for Alaska and Hawaii are different than those for the rest of the nation, yet there is no variation from the national calculation in the FMAP. The conferees correctly noted that comparable adjustments are generally made for Alaska and Hawaii. 
   The case for an FMAP increase is especially compelling in Hawaii, which has a proud history of providing essential health services in an innovative and cost-effective manner. That commitment is not easy to fulfill. Unlike most states, Hawaii's Aid to Families with Dependent Children/Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (AFDC/TANF) caseloads have risen significantly in recent years. Since TANF block grants are based on historical spending levels, the increased demand has placed extreme pressure on state resources. 
   Hawaii has sought to maintain a social safety net while striving for more efficient delivery of government services. The most striking example is the QUEST medical assistance program, which operates under a federal waiver. QUEST has brought managed care and broader coverage to the state's otherwise uninsured populations. At the same time, Hawaii is the only state whose employers guarantee health care coverage to every full-time employee, a further example of Hawaii's commitment to a strong social support system. 
   There is a particularly strong need for a more suitable FMAP rate for Hawaii at this time. The state has not participated in the robust economic growth that has benefitted most of the rest of the nation. Hawaii's unemployment rate is above the national average and state tax revenues have fallen short of projected estimates. The need to fund 50 percent of the cost of the Medicaid program puts an increasing strain on the state's resources. 
   For all of these reasons, the FMAP rates for Hawaii should be adjusted to reflect more equitably the state's ability to support the Medicaid program. This will assure that the special problem of the noncontiguous states is dealt with in a principled manner. 
   I urge my colleagues in the Senate to support an upward adjustment in Hawaii's Federal Medical Assistance Percentage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-akaka-hi-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Disaster Victims Crime Prevention Act of 1999, which would stop fraud against victims of federal disasters. As with legislation I offered in the past, my measure would make it a federal crime to defraud persons through the sale of materials or services for cleanup, repair, and recovery following a federally declared disaster. The senior senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE] joins me in sponsoring this bill. 
   Everyone knows the tremendous costs incurred during a natural disaster. During the winter of 1997 through the spring of 1998, there were tornadoes and flooding in the southeastern states that caused $1 billion in damage and resulted in at least 132 deaths. From December 1996 to January 1997, severe flooding over portions of California, Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada and Montana resulted in $3 billion in damages, while in September 1996, Hurricane Fran struck North Carolina and Virginia at a cost of $5 billion. During the past decade, there have been a number of deadly natural disasters throughout the United States and its territories including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, ice storms, wildfires, mudslides, and blizzards. 
   Through round-the-clock media coverage, Americans have front row seats to the destruction caused by these catastrophic events. We sympathetically watch television as families sift through the debris of their lives and as men and women assess the loss of their businesses. We witness the concern of others, such as Red Cross volunteers passing out blankets and food and citizens traveling hundreds of miles to help rebuild strangers' homes. 
   Despite the outpouring of public support that follows these disasters, there are unscrupulous individuals who prey on the trusting and unsuspecting victims whose immediate concerns are applying for disaster assistance, seeking temporary shelter, and rebuilding their lives. 
   My interest in this was heighten by Hurricane Iniki, which on September 11, 1992, leveled the island of Kauai in Hawaii and caused $1.6 billion in damage. As the people of Kauai began the recovery and rebuilding process, a contractor promising quick home repair took disaster benefits from numerous homeowners and fled the area without completing promised construction. Most of these fraud victims never found relief. 
   Every disaster has examples of individuals who are victimized twice--first by the disaster and later by unconscionable price hikes and fraudulent contractors. In the wake of the 1993 Midwest flooding, Iowa officials found that some vendors raised the price of portable toilets from $60 a month to $60 a day! In other flood-hit areas, carpet cleaners hiked their prices to $350 per hour, while telemarketers set up telephone banks to solicit funds for phony flood-related charities. Nor will television viewers forget the scenes of beleaguered South Floridians buying generators, plastic sheeting, and bottled water at outrageous prices in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew. 
   The Disaster Victims Crime Prevention Act of 1999 would criminalize some  of the activities undertaken by unprincipled people whose sole intent is to defraud hard-working men and women. This legislation will make it a federal crime to defraud persons through the sale of materials or services for cleanup, repair, and recovery following a federally declared disaster. 
   While the Stafford Natural Disaster Act currently provides for civil and criminal penalties for the misuse of disaster funds, it fails to address contractor fraud. To fill this gap, our legislation would make it a federal crime to take money fraudulently from a disaster victim and fail to provide the agreed upon material or service for the cleanup, repair, and recovery. 
   The Stafford Act also fails to address price gouging. Although it is the responsibility of the states to impose restrictions on price increases prior to a federal disaster declaration, federal penalties for price gouging should be imposed once a federal disaster has been declared. I am pleased to incorporate a provision in this bill initiated by our former colleague and cosponsor of this legislation in the 105th Congress, Senator John Glenn, who, following Hurricane Andrew, sought to combat price gouging and excessive pricing of goods and services legislatively. 
   I am pleased to note that there is extensive cooperation among the various state and local offices that deal with fraud and consumer protection issues, and it is quite common for these fine men and women to lend their expertise to their colleagues from out-of-state during a natural disaster. This exchange of experiences and practical solutions has created a strong support network. 
   My bill would ensure that the Federal Emergency Management Agency develop public information in order to ensure that residents within a federally declared disaster area do not fall victim to fraud. The development of public information materials to advise disaster victims about ways to detect and avoid fraud would come under the jurisdiction of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
   At the present time, FEMA, under the guidance of its director, James Lee Witt, has done an outstanding job in meeting natural disasters. I believe there is only admiration and praise for the cooperation that now exists between FEMA and state agencies dealing with natural disasters. Therefore, I have no doubt that government at all levels would benefit from the dissemination of federal anti-fraud related material following the declaration of a disaster by the President. 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass legislation that sends a strong message to anyone thinking of defrauding a disaster victim or raising prices unnecessarily on everyday commodities during a natural disaster. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

